K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling  of 
their car insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
background
Mr and Mrs Ss policy with Admiral was due to renew on 9 April 2019. The renewal premium 
was initially just under  £3,600. After discussion Admiral agreed to reduce the premium down 
to around £1,800. The policy then renewed  on 9 April.
On 17 April 2019, Admiral  were made aware  that Mr and Mrs Ss cars  wing mirror was 
clipped by another  car during an incident in mid-March  2019.  Mr and Mrs S didnt tell that to 
Admiral when renewing their policy. Admiral  said that had they known  about  that incident,  
the premium would have been £636.54 higher. 
Admiral gave Mr and Mrs S two options. They said Mr and Mrs S could  either agree to pay 
the additional premium to continue the policy. And if they did that Admiral would delay the 
first payment  and spread  the remainder over their monthly instalments. The second  option 
Admiral gave was that Mr and Mrs S could cancel the policy without having to pay any fees. 
Admiral said that Mr S told them that he and Mrs S had taken their complaint  to our service  
but he didnt say which of the two options they wanted to take up. Admiral therefore allowed 
the policy to continue and spread the additional  premiums over the monthly instalments.
Mr and Mrs S complained but Admiral didnt uphold it. So, they brought  their complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked  into it. She felt that Admiral had dealt with 
Mr and Mrs S fairly. As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator,  the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr and Mrs S, but Im not going to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Ss points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on 
what I consider to be the key outstanding issues. 
Mr and Mrs Ss policy says:
Please tell us immediately if you or any driver named on your policy, are involved in 
an accident or suffer a loss, no matter  how trivial and even if you do not wish to make 
a claim.
The policy also says that if Mr and Mrs S dont tell Admiral about information they should, the 
policy could be cancelled.  It explains the importance  of giving the correct  information saying 
certain information could  alter the terms of our agreement to insure you or the premium  you
pay. And, if we are able to arrange  cover  we will calculate any difference in premium  from 
the date you were obliged to notify us (even if this happened in a previous  period of 
insurance).
Ref: DRN81249842Mr and Mrs S said the incident was so minor that neither party  made a claim nor was there 
any likelihood of a claim ever being  made.  While I understand their point of view I still think 
they should have told Admiral about it. Thats because it was something  important  Admiral  
had to know as it affected the premium charged. And that was clearly explained in the policy  
which Mr and Mrs S agreed to.
It might help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator. That means it's not my role to 
tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. And our service generally  takes  
the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers  with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of risk 
factors. In other words, they assess the level of risk each  policyholder poses and the 
likelihood of them making a claim in the future by looking  at many different factors.  It might 
help if I give just a few examples of the hundreds  of factors insurers  consider: the type of car 
insured; where  the car is kept; the policyholders occupation; the policyholders age; the type 
of licence the policyholder  has; the length  of time the car has been  owned; the number of 
years the policyholder has been  driving; and past driving incidents the policyholder  has been 
involved in. But its not down to me to tell insurers what factors they should take into account 
when assessing  risk, nor how to go about those assessments. Different insurers will have 
different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter  of 
commercial judgement, balancing risk against the need to compete with other  policies on 
offer, and not something we would  usually think its fair to interfere with. 
And one of the reasons  why different insurers charge different premiums for the same risk is 
because insurers have  different views on risk. So, different insurers give differing levels of 
importance to different  factors. For example,  when  setting premiums Admiral  take into 
consideration incidents that dont result  in a claim, like the minor incident involving  
Mr and Mrs Ss car. They feel that increases the risk posed by the policyholder. But other 
insurers might not take such an incident  into consideration and wont charge more. Insurers 
base their views on risks using statistics and other data. As insurance is essentially an 
assessment of risk, I dont think theres  anything  wrong with Admiral considering 
Mr and Mrs S a higher  risk due to the incident and charging more because  of it. 
Admiral provided me with information to show how Mr and Mrs Ss premium was calculated. 
That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr and Mrs S. And that is 
also why Admiral didnt  share it with them,  which I know must have been frustrating. But 
having looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Admiral treated Mr and Mrs S in the same way 
as they would other policyholders in similar circumstances.  So I think  Admiral  calculated 
their premium reasonably.
Finally, when the issue came to light and Admiral told Mr and Mrs S of their concerns,  they 
gave them the option of continuing the policy or cancelling it without fees. I think those  
options were reasonable. And at that time the policy had only been in existence for a couple 
of weeks. So, if Mr and Mrs S were unhappy they could have cancelled  their policy and gone 
elsewhere. But they chose not to do that and the policy continued. I therefore find that 
Admirals actions were reasonable.
Ref: DRN81249843my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 July 2020.  
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8124984