K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  
S.A. (Mapfre) gave wrong information  when selling his travel insurance policy.
Although information  relating to the complaint has been received from a third party  business  
acting on behalf  of Mapfre, for ease I will refer to both parties in this decision as Mapfre.
Background
Mr P contacted Mapfre to enquire about a travel insurance policy. Mr P asked Mapfre  if hed 
be covered under their policy should he need  to cancel or cut short his trip. He explained 
that this was due to a family  members  health condition. Mapfre  told Mr P that he would be 
covered in these  circumstances, so he bought the policy. 
Mr P said he was due to travel again and contacted Mapfre to enquire  about their travel  
insurance policy again, as he may have needed to cancel or cut short  his trip for the same 
reasons previously given.  On this call he was informed  by Mapfre he wouldnt be covered  by 
the policy as the circumstances  were  excluded in the terms. And he was told that his 
previous policy  also didnt provide cover for these circumstances  for the same  reasons.
Mr P complained to Mapfre  as he said hed been misled about his previous policys  cover  
and therefore  should be reimbursed the premium paid. He also wanted to be given 
compensation for the trouble caused.
Mapfre responded to Mr P partly upholding his complaint.  They admitted Mr P was 
misinformed by their representative as the policy had a specific exclusion for pre-existing 
medical conditions  of close relatives.  Mapfre apologised for this error, but said it would have 
considered the claim as a gesture of good will based on the fact he was given the wrong 
information. They added, as Mr P didnt need to make a claim, he hadnt suffered a financial 
loss as a result of the incorrect information  given.  And based on this information, they 
considered the matter  resolved.
Mr P was unhappy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into this but didnt think Mapfre should do anything more.  He said Mapfre  
admitted to the error  and said they would have considered the claim had he needed to 
cancel or cut his trip short. And he said this was what he would expect them  to do in these 
circumstances. He added that because Mr P received the benefit  of the policy,  should  
anything else have  happened on his trip that required a claim,  he didnt think  Mapfre should 
refund the premium  Mr P paid. So, he felt Mapfre had done enough to put things right.
Mr P was unhappy with this response as he felt he should receive a refund of the premium  
due to being mis-sold  the policy. So the matter has been passed  to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre admits  that Mr P was misinformed  about  his cover when buying  his travel insurance  
policy and apologised  for this. Theyve  also said that the claim would have been considered, 
had Mr P needed to make  a claim for cancelling or cutting short his holiday, taking this error 
Ref: DRN81957582into account. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances, as I wouldnt expect any claim to 
be guaranteed.  This is due to other terms and exclusions of the policy having to be 
considered against the individual circumstances of the claim.
Mr P wants  Mapfre to reimburse him the premium  hes paid as he was mis-sold the policy. 
But his policy did cover other possible eventualities had he needed to make  a claim, and 
therefore a level of protection was available to him should anything else had happened.  For 
these reasons I dont  think  it fair that Mapfre  be asked to refund his premium, as he did 
receive some benefit from the policy. If I were to ask Mapfre  to now refund the premium he 
paid, that would effectively mean hed have received that level of cover free of charge.
Im pleased to see that Mr P didnt need to make a claim on the policy for this trip, and 
therefore hasnt  suffered  any financial  loss. Although I appreciate  Mr Ps frustration about the 
mis-sale, I havent seen  any evidence  that hes suffered a great deal of distress and 
inconvenience as a result  of the error. And I think the apology and reassurance given by 
Mapfre that his claim would have been  considered, taking account of this error, are sufficient 
steps to putting  things  right. For these  reasons  I wont be asking Mapfre to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8195758