K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that loans provided  to her by Caversham Finance  Limited,  trading as 
Brighthouse, were unaffordable and irresponsibly made. She also complains that the 
business has been rude to her.
background
Mrs A took receipt of 16 items  between  October  2012 and May 2016. Each item was 
received under a buy to rent agreement with Brighthouse  whereby Mrs A would pay a 
weekly sum to cover  interest and capital repayment. At the end of each agreement, if 
payments were made  to schedule; Mrs A would own the product shed been renting.
Mrs A says that all of these 16 loans  were unaffordable and Brighthouse shouldnt have lent 
to her.
Brighthouse accepted that five of the loans had been irresponsibly made.  They explained 
that the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) had suggested that theyd not completed proper 
affordability checks and they therefore  repaid the interest that had been charged on these 
items and paid Mrs A a further £20 to compensate her for the inconvenience caused  by the 
error theyd  made. In total they reimbursed just over £260.
Some of the loans were  for products that were  returned within the cooling off period and 
Brighthouse explained that any payments had been returned in these instances.
They said that elsewhere the loans  theyd provided had been subject to proper affordability 
checks. They said that for each loan Mrs A had provided them with an income and 
expenditure declaration and this declaration had been checked using a bank statement 
shed provided  and her income checked  against  her benefit entitlement  statements. They  
were persuaded, in each instance, that she had demonstrated she could afford the 
repayments. So they didnt think theyd done anything  wrong.
They considered, separately,  Mrs As complaint that theyd been rude to her. They provided 
their final response on 20 December 2017  and advised Mrs A that if she disagreed with it, 
she had a right to refer her complaint to this service within six months of the date of their 
letter.
Mrs A was dissatisfied with Brighthouses  response on all issues.  So she referred her 
complaint to this service  on 30 August 2018.  Our investigator explained that as it was more  
than six months since Brighthouse provided its final response about being rude to Mrs A, we 
were not allowed to consider this part of her complaint.
But he was allowed to look at Mrs As concerns that loans had been made irresponsibly. He 
was satisfied that, for those loans were the FCA had directed Brighthouse to make amends,  
theyd done so correctly and returned interest as they shouldve done.  He was also satisfied 
that, where items had been returned, Mrs A had not been financially disadvantaged.  He went 
on to consider the balance of the loans but he thought that Brighthouse  had provided  
information to demonstrate theyd  completed  proportionate and reasonable affordability  
checks so he didnt  think there was evidence to suggest the loans were not affordable.
But Mrs A disagreed with the investigator. She said it should have been clear to the 
company that she couldnt afford  the repayments  and said that, even if she signed to say 
Ref: DRN87425452she could afford the loans, it didnt mean  she could.  She wasnt convinced Brighthouse had 
conducted sufficient  checks and she thought they were trying  to get out of it. She therefore  
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs A but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Before agreeing to provide a loan a business should check that the loan is affordable. The 
type of checks which  a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
mortgage lender  will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue  offering a low 
credit limit doesnt have  to go into so much detail. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether Brighthouse carried out proportionate 
checks, and at what information they had been  given  about Mrs As financial circumstances.
The methods Brighthouse  used to establish affordability were for them  to decide but the 
practices and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could  
be proportionate to the amount of money being requested.
The loans Mrs A was provided with ranged  from about £200 to about  £1,700  so they were  
comparatively small loans and I would  not expect Brighthouse to apply extremely stringent 
analysis when authorising them  their analysis could be proportionate.
For the loans  that the FCA hadnt  directed them to provide  redress for, I think theres  
evidence that they did make  reasonable and proportionate checks  to ensure Mrs A could  
afford the repayments.  They  asked about  her income and expenditure and they checked her 
bank statements and benefit entitlement statement to clarify that what  she told them was 
true. In the circumstances I dont think they needed  to go any further. I think  the evidence 
provided would suggest that Mrs A was likely to be able to afford  the loans and I dont think  
Brighthouse need to take any further  action.
Ive reviewed the loans  where Brighthouse  provided  a refund of interest. From the evidence 
Ive seen they appear to have done  this correctly and I dont think  they need  to do anything 
else to make things right.
There were a number of items that Mrs A secured  but later returned.  Ive seen a list of those  
items and can see that they were returned without charge so Brighthouse dont need to take 
any further action.
Ref: DRN87425453The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt free to consider every complaint that is brought to 
us. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules detail which  complaints we can consider. 
Amongst other tests the customer has six months  from the date he or she receives the 
business final response letter to refer their complaint  to us. After  six months  has elapsed 
this service needs consent from the business to consider a complaint, and failing this it can 
only do so unless there are exceptional circumstances why it was brought late.
Here Mrs A took longer than six months  to refer her complaint to us about  staff at 
Brighthouse being rude to her. I dont think there  are any exceptional  circumstances that 
would make it impossible for Mrs A to have brought this to us earlier, so Im afraid  Im not 
able to consider  this aspect of the complaint.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Brighthouse  has done anything  wrong  here and I dont think 
they need to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8742545