K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  hasnt fully reimbursed  the cost of his 
dental treatment.
Background
Mr C has private  medical insurance with AXA. After injuring his tooth whist  eating, Mr C 
made a claim for the dental treatment he received following it. He complained when AXA 
didnt pay for the full cost of that treatment.
Mr C said that AXA should  have paid for his treatment in full under the accidental  injury part 
of his policy. He said that AXA had led him to believe  thats what  it was going to do, and said 
that AXA had fully covered the costs  of similar claims hed made  in the past.
But AXA said that Mr Cs treatment wasnt eligible under accidental dental injury,  because 
his policy  specifically excluded injury caused by eating or drinking. AXA said that, because of 
that exclusion, itd paid for Mr Cs treatment out of the remaining dental benefit left on his 
policy (that was a smaller benefit amount  than the accidental injury  cover and was run at a 
50% cost share basis). 
AXA looked  back  at Mr Cs previous claims and said that it shouldnt have paid for them  in 
full. It explained  that Mr C hadnt met the relevant  eligibility  criteria  then either. But said 
Mr Cs past claims  didnt  have a bearing  on his future eligibility and it had assessed his 
current claim correctly.  
Unhappy with AXAs decision  Mr C approached this service. One of our investigators looked  
at what had happened but didnt  think that Mr Cs claim  was eligible under accidental dental  
injury because of the eating exclusion.  Based on the available evidence  our investigator 
thought that AXA had acted fairly  in paying  for Mr Cs treatment out of his routine dental 
allowance. And she didnt think that AXA had prejudiced Mr C by paying for previous claims,  
because Mr C had received the benefit of claims which he shouldnt  have had. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld,  but Mr C disagreed. He 
said that hed acted in good  faith before going ahead with his treatment and said AXA had 
led him to believe  his claim would be fully reimbursed.  So the complaint has been  passed  to 
me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
this complaint should be upheld either.  Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Cs policy explain that AXA will pay for the following in 
relation to dental treatment:
We pay for eligible:
Costs incurred for dental  care up to the limits shown in the benefits  table.
Treatment made necessary by an accidental injury caused by an extra-oral impact,  up to 
the limits  shown in the benefits table  when the following  conditions  will apply:
-if the treatment involves replacing a crown, bridge facing,  veneer or denture we 
will pay only the reasonable cost of a replacement of a similar type or quality;
Ref: DRN88065932-if implants are clinically needed  we will pay only the cost which  would have been 
incurred if equivalent bridgework was undertaken instead;
-damage to dentures providing  they were being  worn at the time of the injury. 
However, within that same policy, AXA have also set out:
We will not pay for:
The cost of treatment  made necessary by an accidental dental injury  if:
-The injury was caused by eating or drinking  anything, even if it contains a foreign 
body.
Based on the evidence  made available in this case,  Mr Cs treatment appears to have been  
made necessary because  hed injured his tooth  whilst eating.  So in line with the exclusion 
that applies to Mr Cs policy,  I too am persuaded that his treatment would have been 
excluded from cover under accidental  injury and I dont think that AXA acted unfairly in 
relation to that. 
Mr C has said that AXA told him itd be covering his treatment in full. And to support his 
position has highlighted a specific paragraph  from some of AXAs correspondence to him. 
That particular paragraph reads:
I would like to confirm that out clinical team has reviewed  the dental  treatment  plan provided  
and they have advised that the implant and crown  treatment will be clinically eligible once 
the treatment is completed. We would require your confirmation that the treatment has been  
carried out and paid for before you claim for reimbursement.
However, the remainder  of that correspondence  goes  on to read:
Kindly be informed that this policy covers 50% of dental treatment up to £320 per person 
per year. This will cover  treatments such as crown, extractions,  fillings and implants  or 
medical conditions  related  to your teeth or mouth.  This policy  [sic] benefits  do not cover for 
routine exams,  cleaning or cosmetic treatment including dental products.
Please note your current routine dental allowance is remaining at £561.41.
Your dental accidental  allowance  towards  damage  to teeth is up to £10000  per policy  year.  
Whilst I appreciate Mr Cs position,  I dont agree that the above confirms  that AXA were 
going to be paying for his treatment in full. The above advises that Mr Cs treatment had 
been considered clinically eligible by AXA. But Mr Cs treatment  was clinically  eligible, 
because AXA went on to pay for it.  However,  claims are subject to relevant policy terms and 
conditions being  met and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy, his treatment 
was excluded under  accidental  injury.  Having said that, I understand why Mr Cs previous 
experiences may have  led him to believe that his treatment would have been reimbursed in 
full. 
AXA has acknowledged  that it paid for something  when it shouldnt  have done. That is, of 
course, unfortunate for AXA. But in my view its mistake  enabled  Mr C to have the benefit of 
something for which he should  have otherwise been ineligible. As our investigator explained, 
that put Mr C in a better position than he would have been had AXA realised that Mr Cs 
treatment wasnt eligible for full cover. However,  although I can see why Mr Cs past 
Ref: DRN88065933experiences may have  led him to believe that his future ones  would be the same,  Mr Cs 
previous claims had no bearing  on his future  eligibility. And in all the circumstances of this 
case I find that AXA acted  fairly  within the terms and conditions  of Mr Cs policy. 
I recognise that Mr C will be disappointed  by this, but I wont be asking AXA to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8806593