K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains about problems hes experienced in setting  up a direct  debit to pay the full 
balance of his credit card with John Lewis Financial Services Limited.
Background
Mr B has a credit card with John Lewis Finance that he repaid  each  month by direct  debit. 
But he decided to cancel  this in June 2018,  and then experienced problems when he wanted 
to reinstate it. 
He completed a new direct debit  mandate in October 2018 and his statement for that month  
said that the full balance  would be collected  by direct debit in November. But this payment 
wasnt collected and it led to Mr B incurring charges and interest. Mr B spoke to John Lewis  
Finance about  this and made  a manual  payment for the balance. It refunded the unpaid  
direct debit fee and interest that had been  applied for the missed payment. 
Mr B then completed a new direct  debit mandate and his statement for January 2019 
confirmed that the full balance would be collected by direct  debit.  But again this wasnt 
collected.
John Lewis  Finance initially said that the direct debit  hadnt  gone through because  Mr B had 
insufficient funds  in his account, but this wasnt  right. 
John Lewis  Finance said that on each  occasion  Mr B completed a direct debit mandate it 
had looked to set this up but the request  was rejected by Mr Bs bank with the report  that the 
instruction had been cancelled. It said that the same banking details had been used to 
successfully collect the direct debit payments before it had first been cancelled.  It refunded  
any interest and charges  associated with the issue with the direct  debit, but this hasnt been 
resolved so that Mr B could make  his payments this way.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter but didnt think it should be upheld  as she 
didnt think John Lewis Finance was at fault for the payment  not being collected.  She said 
that it had tried to collect the payment from Mr Bs bank but the instruction had been rejected 
with the bank saying that it had been cancelled  by Mr B. She said John  Lewis Finance had 
apologised for the mistake in saying that one payment had been rejected because  of 
insufficient funds,  and had refunded all the associated fees and charges  which  she thought  
was fair. 
The investigator said that to resolve the matter  John Lewis Finance had suggested  that 
either Mr B could make his payments through another bank; or it could replace his credit  
card which would change  the reference number on the direct  debit instruction. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that they didnt account for the time, 
resources and aggravation it had cost him. He said the resolutions involved him alone  taking  
action to try and sort the situation out.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN87918782I can fully understand  Mr Bs strength of feeling  and frustration about this situation, 
particularly with the attempts hes made to try and resolve it to carry on paying the full 
balance on his credit  card by direct  debit.
However, having looked through  all the detail of how these issues started  and what  John 
Lewis Finance has looked  to do to try and continue  collecting the payments in the same way 
it had done previously, I agree with the investigator  in that I dont think it couldve done more  
to try and reinstate  this direct debit  for Mr B
I say this because  the information it has provided shows that it looked to set up the direct  
debit based on Mr Bs completed  mandate on each occasion he completed  this form. This is 
why it showed  on his statements when the full balance was due to be collected that way. 
And I can also see that when John  Lewis  Finance had begun  the processing  cycle for 
claiming the payment, this was returned  by Mr Bs bank  giving the reason that the instruction 
had been cancelled by Mr B. This shows as the same for each attempt when Mr B 
completed a new direct  debit mandate. And his banking details and reference for his John 
Lewis credit  card were the same  on each direct debit mandate. 
The suggestions that John Lewis Finance has made  to resolve this issue are to try and 
enable Mr B to continue to pay his credit card balance as he wants, although I appreciate  
that they involve some  action on his part. It has suggested that issuing him with a new card 
and therefore  different  reference number for the direct debit mandate may allow his bank to 
process this. This is because it would no longer be trying to reinstate a cancelled instruction 
using the same details  as instead it would be creating a new instruction with a change of 
reference. 
I do acknowledge that in its letter sent to Mr B in January  2019,  John Lewis  Finance said the 
direct debit was reversed due to insufficient funds in Mr Bs account, which wasnt right. John 
Lewis Finance has told us that feedback  has been provided about  this. But I also think the 
reason for the rejected payments couldve been  identified and communicated  to Mr B earlier 
than it has been.  
However John Lewis  Finance  has refunded  all the fees, charges and interest that were  
applied to Mr Bs account in relation  to this issue with the direct debit, and I think this action 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Although I fully appreciate what Mr B has told us 
about the time and effort hes spent looking to resolve the matter, I dont think John  Lewis 
Finance should  be required to pay him compensation for this, when I dont think it was at 
fault for not being able to collect  the direct debit  from Mr Bs bank. I also havent been 
provided with anything to show that Mr Bs credit record has been adversely impacted by 
whats happened here.
I understand from what Mr B has said that hes destroyed the credit card he had for this 
account. I can only suggest that he contacts  John Lewis Finance directly should  he wish to 
take up its suggestion of a having replacement card and a completing new direct debit 
mandate.
Ref: DRN87918783My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020. 
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8791878