K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that the service she received from the Virgin  Money plc (Virgin) with regard 
to the administration of her credit card account fell short of that which she expected. She 
feels her account has not been correctly refunded with two disputed  transactions.
background
Mrs O said she made  two purchases from a company  I shall refer to as AB. The first was for 
£76.08 and the second for £179.23.  Mrs O said the first purchased item was out of stock  and 
for that AB issued  a refund for the £76.08. With regard to the second item,  she sent that 
back but didnt  receive  a refund. So she raised that with Virgin who looked into the matter.
Virgin said that the £76.08  was not a refund for the first purchase,  but a partial refund for the 
second transaction. They also said that following Mrs Os complaint they had gone  on to 
issue her with another refund £179.23  but in hindsight that had been an error  because she 
had already had £76.08 from AB. As a result  of that Virgin  adjusted  her account by taking 
back £76.08 so that in total Mrs O received a total refund of £179.23.
Virgin said they accepted that they should not have refunded  the full amount  of £179.23 
when they did, because they were  effectively giving Mrs O too much money back at that 
point in time. And they accepted that this had caused confusion.  So they paid Mrs O £50 in 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill and also wiped  from her account any late payment 
fees and interest  that had accumulated up to that point because of the ongoing  dispute.
Mrs O was unhappy with Virgins  response believing they had not understood she had made 
two purchases and thus required  two refunds. So an investigator from this service  looked 
into the complaint  but didnt think Virgin had done anything  wrong.
Mrs O disagreed with our investigators view and so the matter  has been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decisions  are based on the available evidence and where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
I will not repeat our investigators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
As a fact Mrs O has received a refund of £179.23.  The issue  therefore is whether she should 
receive a further  refund  of £76.08.  
Ref: DRN81041432I have looked  at Mrs Os credit card account statements and the information provided by 
Virgin. Her statement  for the period  in question shows that there was a zero balance from 
her previous  statement. It then shows a purchase  on the 11 November for £335.76 from AB 
and a second purchase on the 12 November for £179.23, also from AB. There  is no record  
of there  being any purchase for £76.08.  
In her complaint to this service Mrs O argued  that if the two refunds  of £76.08 and £179.23 
had been made then this would have cleared her balance with Virgin. But that is not right,  
since it would not have cleared the balance due to the larger purchase for £335.76. I know  
Mrs O says she bought  an item from AB for £76.08 but that does not appear on her 
statement. 
As there is no evidence  that she actually made any purchase for £76.08  in the first instance, 
I cannot reasonably  say that Virgin should have refunded her that sum. So on balance I think  
Mrs O must be mistaken about  that. And I think the refund of £76.08 is more likely  than not 
to have been a part refund for the £179.23 transaction.
Looking more broadly at the service Mrs O received, I agree with our investigator that Virgin  
made a mistake in how they dealt with her disputed transaction. I agree  that they should 
have taken into account that shed  already  had a partial refund of £76.08  from AB when they 
were looking  into it and so should  have only refunded  a further £103.15.
Virgin have paid Mrs O £50 as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of this, and removed any 
interest and late payment  fees incurred because  of it. So I do think that the offer of £50 was 
in fact reasonable and I do not think Virgin should do any more.  
I know Mrs O will be disappointed  with my decision but I have come to the same conclusion  
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  
my final decision
Virgin Money plc has already paid £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances. For the reasons set out above I do not think  Virgin  should do any more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8104143