K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained about  NRAM Limited.  Their property was possessed in April 2007 
and later sold. They say NRAM  didnt tell them that there wasnt enough money to pay off 
their mortgage until October 2018.  
Mr and Mrs W believe this means they arent  liable  for the debt, and they want  it written off. 
background
Mr and Mrs Ws property  was possessed in April 2007 and later sold.  There  wasnt  enough 
money to cover what Mr and Mrs W owed NRAM, so there was a shortfall.
Theres a dispute  about what happened next:
-Mr and Mrs Ws version is that they didnt hear anything until October 2018, when 
they received  letters  from NRAM  saying that as the loan was in default and a formal  
demand had been  issued,  the outstanding balance of £8,791.68 was payable.  The 
letter asked them to contact NRAM to discuss the situation.
-NRAMs version is that it had written  to Mr and Mrs W at the address on file on 21 
May 2008, telling  them about the shortfall  and asking them to get in touch. NRAM 
said it had sent a follow-up letter on 28 May passing  the debt to its loss recovery unit. 
NRAM also said that Mr W had phoned  NRAM on 29 May 2008 giving new separate 
addresses for Mr and Mrs W, and that another  letter had been sent to the two new 
addresses on 4 June 2008.  
The facts  from October  2018 onwards arent disputed. After  NRAMs October  2018  letters, 
both Mr and Mrs W wrote to NRAM saying  they didnt have any liability for the debt. They  
quoted various  rules  which  they believed backed  up their claim.  They  said the Limitation  
Acct 1980 said that no action can be brought to recover  mortgage  money  after 12 years  after 
the date on which the right to receive the money accrued. And they said that the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)s  handbook said that if a lender decides to recover a mortgage 
shortfall, they must  inform the borrower  within six years of the date of sale.
NRAM didnt reply  to these letters. On 9 January 2019, it wrote again  about the shortfall  
debt, saying it was seeking repayment  proposals for the £8,791.68. The letter  set out options 
if they couldnt pay it all straightaway. 
Mr and Mrs W complained. They said theyd sent Signed For letters in response to NRAMs 
October letter, and hadnt  had a reply. They repeated their view that they werent liable for 
the debt, and said they wanted confirmation  that NRAM wouldnt contact them again  about 
the account. They said it could constitute harassment and breaches  of the FCAs rules were 
treated seriously  by the FCA.
NRAM didnt uphold  their complaint.  It apologised for not replying  to Mr and Mrs Ws autumn 
2018 letters,  but said it wasnt correct that the debt had expired. It sent copies of its 28 May 
2008 letter,  and said that the fact that Mr W had phoned NRAM on 29 May 2008 indicated  
that hed received the letter. It sent a copy of its 4 June 2008 letter too. So NRAM didnt 
accept it hadnt  told Mr and Mrs W about  the shortfall within six years.   
Ref: DRN83572682NRAM also sent Mr and Mrs W a factsheet  from a debt website, which  showed  lenders have 
12 years  to take action  to recover  a mortgage  shortfall debt. But Mr and Mrs W werent 
satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold their complaint. She set out rules  which  give guidelines  about  
best practice between  lenders and borrowers.  These were:  
From the Council of Mortgage Lenders:
  In England, Wales  and Northern Ireland, a lender legally  has 12 years in which to contact
the borrower to begin the process of obtaining  repayment of shortfall debt; this period is 
usually5 years  in Scotland...
In addition, from 11 February 2000, lenders  who are members  of the Council of Mortgage
Lenders have agreed voluntarily that they will begin  all recovery  action for the shortfall within  
the first six years following the sale of a property in possession
The six year limit only refers to beginning recovery action and does not affect a lenders
ability to recover the shortfall debt over a longer period.
From the FCAs Mortgages: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB): 
 (1) If the decision is made to recover the sale shortfall, the firm must ensure that the
customer is notified of this intention.
(2) The notification referred  to in (1) must take place  within five years of the date of the sale
(if the regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan is subject to Scottish law) or
within six years (in all other cases).
Mr and Mrs Ws property  was in England. The investigator said NRAM had started the 
process of obtaining  repayment of the debt within 12 years, and she considered NRAM had 
sent the disputed 2008 letters,  so it had made Mr and Mrs W aware within six years.  
So the investigator considered Mr and Mrs W were  liable for the shortfall debt.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ive considered the dispute about whether or not Mr and Mrs W heard anything about 
the shortfall debt before  NRAMs October 2018  letter. Ive set out the conflicting versions 
above. 
Where evidence conflicts, I make my decision on what I think is most likely  to have 
happened, taking all the available  evidence into account. I note that Mr and Mrs W say they 
believe NRAMs system  notes are forged. But having looked  carefully  at these, I consider 
this is unlikely. I find its more likely  than not that NRAM did write to Mr and Mrs W on 21 and 
28 May 2008, and that it was as a result of those  letters that Mr W rang NRAM on 29 May 
2008. 
I recognise that Mr W has told us that he never made that call, so again Ive considered 
whats most likely  to have happened. Theres no call recording available, which isnt 
Ref: DRN83572683surprising after so many  years.  But if that call didnt take place, I cant see how NRAM would 
have known the two new, separate addresses for Mr and Mrs W, which it used  to write to 
them in 2018.
Having found  that the call did take place, I also consider its more likely than not that the 
issue of the shortfall  would have been  discussed   because thats what the letter had been 
about, which led to the call.
So I find that NRAM did tell Mr and Mrs W about  the shortfall in May 2008. This means that it 
met the requirement  to notify them  within six years.
Ive also considered the period under which a lender must  start to take legal action to 
recover a shortfall. A shortfall debt isnt automatically written off when a property is sold in 
possession. Section 20 (1) of the Limitation Act 1980 sets out that a lender has 12 years to 
use court  action to make  a borrower  pay a shortfall  from a mortgage. 
That 12 years  starts  from the date the property is sold, not the date of possession. Thats 
because an accurate figure for the shortfall  cant be known until the sale has definitely gone 
through. The court action for the shortfall would be separate from the possession 
proceedings. But it doesnt have  to be an actual court  application, as a form of pre-action  
would be sufficient  for example notification that borrowers need to pay or the lender would 
start court proceedings.
Looking at the correspondence sent by NRAM to Mr and Mrs W, the disputed 2008 letters 
refer to further recovery action. But in any case, the 15 October 2018 letter which  Mr and 
Mrs W agree  they received, refers to further  action being taken on your account  which  
could be legal action.   That letter  was sent within 12 years  of the sale.  So I find that NRAM 
met this requirement too.
Its important to note that the rules relates  to when a lender must  start these processes. If 
borrowers dont respond or do anything until after the timescales  have expired, it doesnt  
mean that debt will be cancelled, provided  the lender has started  these processes. So Mr 
and Mrs Ws shortfall  debt wont be cancelled  at the end of these  periods.
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I accept that NRAM did notify  Mr and Mrs W of the 
shortfall within the required timescales.  So I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint that they 
arent liable for the debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8357268