K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Savings and Investments  (NS&I) keeps returning  debit card 
payments to his bank  instead of applying them  to his account.  
background
Mr B has savings  with NS&I and regularly used his debit card to make payments into his 
accounts. But in 2018 the debit card payments Mr B made started to be returned to his bank.  
Whilst some  payments have gone  through, lots of payments have been returned. 
Mr B complained to both NS&I and his bank.  NS&I responded and said the declined 
transactions were  the fault of Mr Bs bank. But Mr Bs bank said the same about, NS&I  so 
hes been unable  to find out whats caused  the problem. 
NS&I has confirmed that during 2018 it introduced new security measures which meant  a 
customers address format needed to match the details held by their bank. 
Mr B remained unhappy  with NS&Is response  so referred his complaint to this service and 
an investigator looked at whats happened. The investigator looked at the information NS&I 
provided but didnt  find any evidence itd made  an error or returned  the transactions to 
Mr Bs bank.  The investigator wasnt able to say why Mr Bs payments werent successfully  
going through. 
Mr B asked for his case to be appealed  so its been  passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B remains unhappy with whats happened. Hes complained  to both 
his bank and NS&I but neither party has been  able to provide a clear  explanation. The 
investigator obtained a substantial amount of information from both parties and NS&I went  
on to amend Mr Bs address details  to ensure they matched his banks. But I am aware the 
problem persists in line with Mr Bs recent emails. In this decision Im only looking  at the 
actions of NS&I, not Mr Bs bank. 
I am conscious that the problems Mr B has faced appear to have  started after NS&I 
introduced new security measures for making payments to it. The investigators explained in 
detail why the address information  needs  to match between Mr Bs bank and NS&I. Whilst, 
like the investigator,  Ive been unable to find a specific reason for the problems Mr Bs faced 
I think its possible the new security  measures have impacted his ability to make  payments. 
But that doesnt mean I think  NS&I has made  a mistake. Unfortunately  as Mr B lives abroad 
his address format  isnt set out in a standard way, like a UK address would be. And NS&I 
have shown that payments in these circumstances  can be more difficult  to process, 
especially if theres a difference in the address  format. 
That being  said,  NS&I  has checked  the address  format for Mr B and confirmed  it matches 
details held by his bank. So its a shame payments arent reliably going through still. 
Unfortunately, Ive been unable to reach a specific answer as to why Mr Bs payments 
Ref: DRN81664582continue to be returned to his bank.  Ive seen Mr Bs recent emails about  ongoing  returned  
payments. But looking  at the evidence  and information NS&I  have provided Ive not found 
anything to show a mistakes been  made. 
NS&I has provided Mr B with a work  around that allows  him to pay funds into his account 
and I appreciate that it takes a bit longer  to process and is less convenient. But I think 
providing a work around is a reasonable way to deal with matters  in the circumstances. As 
Ive not found  evidence  NS&I has acted unfairly or made a mistake  Im not telling it to take 
any further action  to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8166458