K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr K bought the policy in connection with a credit card that he took out some time between
1998 and 2000. Lloyds  cant say for sure whether  the PPI was added  to the account at the
same time as Mr K applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr K applied  for his card some time between 1998 and 2000 and its possible that he
bought PPI at the same  time. But Lloyds doesnt  know for sure if this is the case. Ive
not seen anything to suggest  the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think its most
likely Mr K bought the PPI at the same  time as applying for his credit card.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mr K aware  the PPI was optional and he chose to
take it. Mr K says PPI wasnt discussed when he took out the credit card, and that he
wouldnt have agreed to buy it. I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mr K and
Lloyds when the policy was sold, and the documents from the point of sale are no
longer available. Thats not surprising  as its many years since  the policy was sold.
But from what we know about Lloyds sales processes between 1998 and 2000,  Mr K
wouldve had to actively select  the PPI. I think its unlikely that Lloyds  wouldve  added 
the PPI to Mr Ks account if he hadnt  chosen  to take it. Although  I accept it is 
possible PPI wasnt discussed, it is equally likely  it was  although I can understand 
why Mr K may no longer remember this.
Lloyds accepts that it probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr K, but it doesnt  look as if
it was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Mr K says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer, so he didnt need  the PPI. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ks employer benefits and wouldve 
meant Mr K could use his sick pay to cover other expenses. So I think  the policy  
wouldve been useful  to Mr K if he couldnt work
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mr K would have been affected by any of the main
Ref: DRN83199022things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8319902