K821x#15Complaint
Mrs G complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  didnt pay her motor  insurance claim and 
avoided her policy.
Background
Mrs G had a car insurance  policy underwritten  by Tesco. She first took out this policy in 
2010. Mrs Gs policy  also had a named  driver insured to drive her vehicle.
In 2018, the named driver  was involved in a car accident. Mrs G made a claim on her policy  
and initially  Tesco said the car was a total loss and it would pay Mrs G the value of her car 
minus her excess. Around two weeks later, Tesco told Mrs G that it wouldnt  be paying the 
claim and it avoided the policy. It explained  it did this as it found out the named driver  had a 
criminal conviction, and it wouldnt  have offered  insurance if this had been declared when 
the policy was taken out.
Mrs G complained. She said shed told Tesco of the named drivers conviction over the 
phone, but Tesco hadnt provided the recordings.  She said the conviction  wasnt a motoring  
conviction and she didnt feel it was fair for it to avoid her policy.  She said her policy had 
always automatically renewed.
I sent my provisional decision upholding this complaint on 28 September  2020. In my 
provisional decision, which is attached below and forms part of this decision, I explained that 
Tesco shouldnt have  avoided  the policy. I agreed  with Tesco that Mrs G was careless when 
taking out her policy as she didnt declare that the named driver had a criminal conviction.  
However, I concluded that Tesco  wouldve offered a policy to Mrs G, the policyholder, on 
different terms. Those terms  being that she would be insured without the named driver  on 
the policy. So, I recommended  Tesco removes the record of Mrs Gs policy  being  avoided  
and that it provides a letter saying the policy  was avoided  by mistake.
Mrs G didnt respond to the provisional decision and Tesco disagreed.  It said that it wouldnt 
have entered  into a contract with Mrs G to provide  the insurance she wanted had she 
disclosed the criminal conviction of the named driver. Tesco  explained it wouldnt have 
advised Mrs G to leave  the named driver off the policy.  It wouldnt have accepted  the risk 
presented by Mrs G  which was to insure herself  and the named driver.  So, it believes it 
avoided the policy correctly and in line with the relevant law. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the comments Tesco  has made carefully. I can understand that it wouldnt 
have offered Mrs G insurance with the named driver on the policy.  However, I still dont think 
it shouldve avoided the policy for the same reasons set out in my provisional decision, which 
is attached below and forms part of this decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  that Id considered the relevant law. Specifically, the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Schedule 1, 
paragraph 6 of CIDRA applies to careless misrepresentations where a claim has been  made  
and says: If the insurer would have entered into the consumer insurance contract, but on 
Ref: DRN84221362different terms (excluding terms  relating to the premium), the contract is to be treated as if it 
had been entered into on those different terms if the insurer so requires.
I understand that Tesco wouldnt  have  provided  cover for Mrs Gs named driver in any 
circumstances due to the criminal conviction,  however  it was Mrs Gs policy.  And it wouldve 
provided cover for her without a named driver on her policy. Therefore, it wouldve entered 
into the consumer  contract, namely giving  Mrs G an insurance policy, on different terms. As 
such, I dont think  its reasonable for it to avoid the policy.
Its clear to me that Tesco  wouldnt have insured the named driver had Mrs G not made a 
qualifying misrepresentation. So, it was right to decline the claim and I wont  be asking it to 
do anything differently in relation to Mrs Gs insurance claim for this accident. But I dont 
think it shouldve avoided  the policy for the reasons set out above and in my provisional 
decision. As such, I think it should update the records to reflect that Mrs Gs policy wasnt 
avoided.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. 
Tesco Underwriting Ltd must remove any record of the policy having been avoided  from any 
internal or external  databases and give Mrs G a letter saying the policy  was avoided by 
mistake which  she can present to her new and future insurers if she wishes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84221363Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs G complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited didnt  pay her motor insurance claim  and avoided 
her policy.
background
Mrs G had a car insurance  policy underwritten  by Tesco. She first took out this policy in 2010.  Mrs Gs 
policy also had a named  driver insured to drive her vehicle.
In 2018, the named driver was involved in a car accident.  Mrs G made a claim on her policy and 
initially Tesco  said the car was a total loss and it would pay Mrs G the value  of her car minus her 
excess. Around two weeks later, Tesco told Mrs G that it wouldnt be paying the claim and it avoided 
the policy.  It explained  it did this as it found out the named driver had a criminal conviction, and it 
wouldnt have offered insurance  if this had been  declared  when the policy  was taken  out.
Mrs G complained. She said shed told Tesco of the named drivers  conviction  over the phone, but 
Tesco hadnt provided the recordings. She said the conviction wasnt a motoring conviction  and she 
didnt feel it was fair for it to avoid  her policy. She said her policy had always  automatically renewed.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. She said that Tesco  had made it clear  
Mrs G needed to tell it about certain changes  including  if anyone who drives the car gets convicted of 
a criminal  offence. And at every renewal Tesco  asked  Mrs G to check  her policy  schedule and to 
contact it if anything  was incorrect. The named  driver was convicted of a criminal offence in 2014,  and 
the policy  schedules after this confirm that he doesnt  have a conviction. So, Mrs G shouldve told 
Tesco that the named driver had a conviction. If she had, Tesco wouldnt have offered insurance.
Our investigator did explain  that she felt that Mrs G had been  careless in not disclosing this 
information, rather  than doing it deliberately.  But, as Tesco wouldnt  have offered insurance, it hadnt 
done anything wrong in avoiding the policy and refunding the premiums  paid.
Mrs G disagreed. She felt it was unfair  and said that she had told them over the phone. She asked  for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Tesco has avoided  Mrs Gs policy because  she didnt  disclose that the named driver had a criminal 
conviction. Ive considered whether it has acted  fairly, and in line with the relevant  law (the Consumer  
Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)), when doing  this. 
CIDRA says that, where there is a qualifying  misrepresentation (i.e. that without the 
misrepresentation the insurer wouldnt have provided  the policy at all or on different terms) which  was 
careless, the insurer can avoid the policy and refuse all claims, but it must return  the premiums. This 
is what Tesco  has done so Ive considered whether  it has applied  CIDRA correctly  here. But I dont 
think it has when it avoided the policy completely. 
Mrs G has said that she told Tesco about the named  drivers conviction.  But neither  Mrs G nor Tesco 
can provide  anything to show this was the case. The named drivers  conviction was in 2014 (four 
years after Mrs G was originally sold the policy) and Tesco has said it cant produce call recordings 
from this time.  I think this is reasonable given the amount of time that has passed. Tesco  has shown 
there was a phone call from Mrs G in 2014 but the notes only reflect a change  in vehicle. Having 
considered the available evidence, I cant say, on balance, that Tesco  was made aware.
Ref: DRN84221364In any event, Mrs G received renewal documents every  year.  The policy booklets that she received 
each year have a section about changes  that shed need  to make Tesco aware of. The section  
contains a specified list of changes that Mrs G would  need to tell them about during the life of the 
policy including the following:
Anyone who drives the car gets a motoring conviction (including fixed penalty offences) or is 
convicted of a criminal  offence.
So, I think Tesco made Mrs G aware  that she should let it know  if the named driver receives a 
conviction  which happened during the life of the policy. In addition  to this, the renewal letter she 
received says:
Please check  all your documentation as these provide  information  on your cover  and the details we 
hold about you. It is important you check your details  are still correct, as inaccurate information could  
result in claims not being paid or your policy  being voided. If you find anything that isnt right please 
give us a call.
Tesco sent Mrs G a statement of fact with this letter  which had all the relevant  details about  Mrs G 
and the named driver.  This had a table which  had a variety of statements  including that neither  driver 
had been convicted of any non-motoring offences. It was Mrs Gs responsibility  to check  this, and to 
inform Tesco that this was incorrect. Mrs G has said she didnt read her documents, so I agree with 
Tesco and think she has been careless in not-disclosing the named  drivers conviction. And as Tesco 
said it wouldnt have  sold her the policy at all had they been provided with the correct  information, I 
think there is a qualifying misrepresentation here, though a careless one.
Schedule 1, paragraph  6 of CIDRA applies to careless misrepresentations where a claim has been 
made and says: If the insurer would have entered into the consumer insurance  contract, but on 
different terms (excluding  terms relating  to the premium),  the contract is to be treated as if it had been 
entered into on those different terms if the insurer  so requires.
In this case Tesco  has shown me that it wouldnt  have provided any insurance for a driver  that had a 
criminal conviction. So, if Mrs G had told Tesco that the named driver  did have  a criminal conviction, it 
wouldnt have provided the cover that Mrs G asked for. But it doesnt mean  it wouldnt provide cover 
on any terms.
Tesco has confirmed  that it wouldve insured Mrs G without  the named  driver on the policy. So, I dont 
think it shouldve avoided her policy. Because its clear that it wouldve  entered into the consumer 
contract on different  terms.
Its clear to me that Tesco wouldnt have insured the named driver had Mrs G not made a qualifying  
misrepresentation. So, it was right to decline the claim and I wont be asking it to do anything  
differently in relation to Mrs Gs insurance claim  for this accident. But I dont think it shouldve avoided 
the policy.  As such, I think it should update the records to reflect that Mrs Gs policy  wasnt avoided.
As time has passed since Mrs G has had her policy avoided Ive looked to see if shes been 
disadvantaged financially due to this. Mrs G hasnt complained about  the previous years, from when 
the qualifying misrepresentation started in 2014,  so Ive not looked into this. Ive focused on the year 
the claim was made.  At the point the claim was made the policy was at the end of its year. It renewed 
shortly before Tesco avoided it. Tesco refunded all premiums  for the full year the claim  was made  and 
anything additional  Mrs G had paid for the short time afterwards. However, as I dont  think Tesco 
shouldve avoided the policy, Mrs G shouldnt  have had to go on to find other insurance and wouldve  
had continual  cover.
As Ive already explained  that Tesco was reasonable  in declining the claim, Mrs G was responsible for 
any repair costs she incurred as a result  of the named  drivers  accident. Mrs G has told us that her 
insurance premium  for the car after it was repaired was around £1,100.  This was more than shed 
paid prior to the policy being  avoided.  But Mrs G wouldve always  had to have paid a premium to be 
Ref: DRN84221365covered if Tesco hadnt avoided her policy. And as the full year was refunded,  and Mrs G has now 
paid for a different  years cover with a different insurer, I think that shes now better off. 
A lot of time has passed  since Tesco avoided  the policy, and Mrs G has since had to repair the car 
and find a policy elsewhere. So, Im not asking it to reinstate Mrs Gs policy with her as the sole driver. 
But I do think  Tesco would be reasonable if it requested the return of the refunded premiums,  less the 
additional amount Mrs G has had to pay to be covered with her new insurer. This is because  I think  
she shouldve been covered for the full year that was refunded, but on different  terms. And it wouldnt 
be reasonable for her to have had this cover for free. Id also expect Tesco  to provide a letter  saying 
the policy  was avoided by mistake.
Mrs G has said that she feels her car shouldnt  be recorded  as being  a total loss, if Tesco  shouldnt  
have been insuring her at the time. But Ive explained why I think it shouldve offered  Mrs G the policy 
without the named driver insured. This doesnt take away from the fact it was the named driver who 
had the accident  he shouldnt have been insured  to drive that car, so Tesco  shouldnt have to cover 
the claim. But Mrs G did try to make a claim,  and the condition of the car meant it was uneconomical 
to repair.  Its right that the true reflection of the cars condition is reflected on databases so I wont  be 
asking Tesco to remove the claim or condition  of the car.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold  this complaint. I intend to direct Tesco Underwriting 
Ltd to remove  any record of the policy  having  been avoided from any internal or external databases 
and give Mrs G a letter saying the policy was avoided  by mistake which  she can present to her new 
and future  insurers  if she wishes.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8422136