K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Insurance Factory Ltds (IFL) handling of his motorhome 
insurance policy.
Reference to IFL includes their agents.
background
Mr B took out insurance for his motorhome in August 2017 to start on 1 September  2017. He 
took out his policy through  IFL who were acting  as intermediary. The policy  was underwritten 
by another business (the insurer). Mr B paid IFL a total of £217.21.
On 23 September  2017, Mr B told IFL that he had sold his motorhome and wasnt  going to 
replace it. IFL therefore told him that the policy would be cancelled as there was no longer a 
vehicle to be insured.  Mr B wasnt happy  with the amount of refund he was told he would get 
so he complained. IFL said that to resolve the complaint they waived  their £50 cancellation  
fee and refunded the £29.95 legal cover fee. The total IFL refunded was £88.54.
Of the total £210.46 cost of the premium, Mr B was charged £63.02 for the 23 days  he was 
on cover.  That amount  was calculated by the insurer under their short  term cancellation 
rates. Mr B felt that was excessive and said he should have only been  charged pro-rata for 
the time he was on cover.
As IFL didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint, he brought it to our service.  One of our adjudicators 
looked into the complaint and felt that IFL had dealt with Mr B fairly. He explained that IFL 
werent responsible  for calculating the charge  for the time Mr B was on cover as that was 
something the insurer did. Mr B therefore made  a separate complaint to the insurer. That 
complaint has been dealt  with under a separate case  reference in which one of our 
ombudsmen decided the charge was reasonable.
Mr B subsequently found out that the insurer had returned to IFL £147.04  of the total 
premium of £210.46. Mr B said he was entitled to more in the way of a refund. As a result,  
the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 September 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr B, but Im not intending  to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
During the call Mr B had with IFL when  he took out the policy, he was told that if he 
cancelled after the 14 day cooling  off period he would  be charged a £50 cancellation  
fee; he would have to pay the £70 arrangement fee; that any add ons (in his case the 
£29.95 legal cover) wouldnt be refunded; and that insurers cancellation rules will 
apply. IFL said they emailed Mr B all the relevant  documentation relating to his 
policy, including details  of the insurers cancellation  rules that said if he cancelled  
before 30 days he would be charged  30% of the annual premium.  Mr B said he didnt 
receive that information.
In their written response to Mr Bs complaint, IFL confirmed  that they had sent all the 
relevant policy  information  to his email address. When they confirmed the email 
Ref: DRN86152592address they used  for Mr B, IFL reproduced  the incorrect email address in their letter. 
They used the correct account name that appears  before the @ and the correct  
.com at the end, but they completely left out the domain name that goes in between 
the two. IFL said that was simply a typographical error in their letter and when  they 
checked their records they had in fact sent all the emails to Mr Bs correct email 
address. While Mr B said he didnt receive  the email about the insurers  cancellation 
charges, he did say that he had received two other  emails from IFL. That would 
suggest that IFL did have Mr Bs correct  email address. And from the information 
provided by IFL, I am satisfied that they did send  him the information relating to the 
cancellation charges.
Mr B was charged £63.02 for 23 days cover,  which was 30% of his £210.06 annual 
premium. Had he been  charged pro-rata  for the 23 days he was insured, the cost of 
his time on cover would  have been  around  £13. So the refund for the unused 
premium would have  been around  £50 higher. But, because  IFL agreed to waive the 
cancellation fee and refunded the legal  cover fee, Mr B received a higher refund than 
he would  have done if the policy had been cancelled on a pro-rata basis.
Mr B paid for the total cost of his insurance  upfront. So from the £217.21 he paid IFL, 
IFL paid the insurer £210.06, which was the net premium for the insurance cover for 
the whole  policy year. Because Mr B cancelled the policy early, less than 30 days 
into it, the insurer retained 30% of the annual  premium  (£63.02). The insurer then 
returned the remaining 70% of the annual premium  (£147.04) to IFL. IFL, as is usual 
practice for intermediaries, then calculated what charges Mr B had to pay to see if 
anything remained of the premium returned by the insurer. If there  was a balance  IFL 
would refund it to Mr B. If there  was a shortfall IFL would have asked Mr B to pay 
what was outstanding. So the total charges Mr B had to pay were:
£63.02 for the premium.
£70 arrangement fee.
£50 cancellation  fee.
£29.95 for the legal cover add on.
£2.15 credit card charge.
The total amounted to £215.12. From that amount £6.50 was deducted for a discount 
that was given, which left a total of £208.62. As Mr B had paid a total of £217.21 the 
refund due to him would have been  £8.59. Had he been entitled to a pro-rata refund 
of the premium he would  have  received  a total refund of around  £59. But IFL, as a 
gesture of goodwill, refunded the £50 cancelation  fee and the non-refundable £29.95  
for the legal  cover. So, together with the £8.59,  Mr B got back  a total of £88.54, which  
is more than he would have been entitled to had he been given a pro-rata refund. I 
therefore think IFL treated him reasonably.  I have  listened to the inception call. 
During that IFL told Mr B that on cancellation he would have to pay the cancellation 
and arrangement fees, and that the legal cover was none refundable.
He was also told that if the refund  due to him was under £10, IFL wouldnt have to 
pay that. The refund due to him was £8.59 but IFL did refund that, which I think was 
reasonable. Mr B said that he hadnt agreed to the legal cover add on. But I have  
listened to the inception  call and it was something  that was discussed and taken out 
with Mr Bs agreement.
Ref: DRN86152593The parties were invited to comment on my findings. IFL accepted my provisional findings. 
But Mr B made the following points:
There was an inference  in the letter  from the insurer to IFL that the £147.04  returned  
was intended  for Mr B, although he expected part of that amount to be retained.
That Ive relied  on what  IFL told me about them sending Mr B the relevant 
information by email rather than relying on what actually happened, namely  that he 
didnt receive attachments detailing the insurers cancellation  rules and charges. He 
said there is a fault in the way IFL administrate.
That our adjudicators view on the charges was fair. That I havent considered the 
fairness of the sums Mr B was charged.
He wasnt given  the opportunity to listen to the inception  call as IFL wanted to charge 
him for a copy which he felt was unethical. He is therefore unable to respond to the 
accuracy of the account I summarised in my provisional decision in relation to Mr B 
agreeing to the legal  protection cover. Mr B therefore feels  that only IFLs  version  has 
been accepted.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to Mr Bs further  comments in the same  order  he made  
them, as follows:
While  I appreciate that Mr B read an inference  into the letter from the insurer  to IFL 
about the return of the £147.04  being  intended  for him, I have explained  in my 
provisional findings how refunds between insurers and intermediaries are dealt  with. 
The insurer wasnt entitled to £147.04 of the premium so they returned it to IFL. IFL 
then calculated all the charges Mr B was required to pay in accordance  with the 
terms and conditions.  I felt that IFL refunded more  than they were required  to do, 
which was reasonable.
I accept that technology  isnt always perfect.  But on the evidence Ive seen, I was 
satisfied that IFL sent Mr B emails  with the information about the insurers 
cancellation rules  and charges. I note that Mr B said he received the emails  but not 
the attachments.  But I think  if he was missing information he could have asked IFL or 
the insurer to provide  it, but I dont think he did.
Our service has a two-tier system where  an adjudicator or investigator looks into the 
complaint and gives their view.  In the event  either party  doesnt  agree with that view, 
the complaint  is then passed onto an ombudsman to make a final decision.  While 
Mr B felt that our adjudicators initial view was fair, I fully considered all the 
information and felt that IFL had dealt  with Mr B in a fair and reasonable way. My 
reasons were explained in my provisional  decision and still stand.
It was because Mr B disputed what IFL said that I listened to the inception  call in full. 
I am satisfied that the recording of the inception call is an accurate, verbatim record 
of what was discussed between Mr B and IFL. And the legal protection cover was 
discussed and agreed to by Mr B before it was taken out.
Ref: DRN86152594my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.   
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8615259