K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay  Ltd, trading as Marbles,  registered  a default on his credit  file 
when they had agreed to put his account  on hold. 
He would like them to remove the default from his credit  file. He would also like 
compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
background
Mr G had a credit card with Marbles. He says that, due to illness, he started missing 
payments towards  his balance. 
Marbles say that he hadnt made a payment since May 2018  so, in August 2018,  they served 
a default notice on Mr G. 
Marbles say that they passed Mr Gs account  to a debt collection agency on 30 August  
2018. But, on 12 September  2018,  a relative  of Mr G called  the debt collection agency and 
told them  that Mr G was seriously ill in hospital and Marbles had been  aware  of this. 
Marbles brought the account back to them on 15 September 2018 when they found out 
about Mr Gs illness.  They said that this was the first time that they had been made aware of 
his illness. 
In October  2018, Marbles said that they sent Mr G a medical  information  pack  to complete.
In November 2018, Mr G came out of hospital and contacted Marbles.  They  agreed  to put 
his account on hold until February  2019.  Mr G also says that he was told that he didnt have 
to complete the medical information pack. 
On 21 November 2018, Marbles sent Mr G a letter saying that they would be registering a 
default on his account with the credit reference agencies.  The default was registered in 
December 2018.  
Mr G was unhappy with this. He didnt think that a default shouldve been registered  whilst 
his account was on hold.
NewDay looked at the complaint and found that they, trading as Marbles, had correctly  
registered the default. 
They did, however, find that they had taken too long in investigating the complaint  so paid 
Mr G £60 compensation for this.
Mr G wasnt happy with this outcome so he came to us. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought that NewDay were  entitled to 
register the default as it showed a true reflection of what had happened.  
Mr G didnt agree. He thought that his account shouldnt have been  defaulted  whilst it was 
on hold. So, the complaint  has now come  to me.  
Ref: DRN80877732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr G isnt going to be happy with my decision. Im not upholding the complaint as I 
think that NewDay were entitled  to register  the default. I will explain why. 
I can see why Mr G thinks that his account shouldnt have been defaulted whilst it was on 
hold. But, I think that what he thinks of as being on hold is different to what NewDay  think 
being on hold means. It appears to me that Mr G thinks that nothing shouldve  happened on 
his account whilst it was on hold. But, it appears  to me that NewDay, trading as Marbles, 
thought that it was only arranging how Mr G was going to repay his debt that was on hold. 
They also stopped adding  interest to his account whilst it was on hold. They  wanted  more 
information from Mr G (partly  via the medical information pack)  to assess  what  Mr G could 
repay. 
However, putting the account on hold didnt mean that it wasnt  going to be defaulted. 
The default  notice  states on page 2:
If you can't  pay the £56.51 arrears, we recommend you continue to pay what you can 
as this will reduce your  outstanding balance, however we may still take the action  
shown on page 1 of this notice.
So, even with the account on hold whilst  giving time to both Mr G and NewDay to assess 
what repayments Mr G should  make, I think that NewDay were entitled  to register  the 
default. 
I know that this isnt the outcome that Mr G hoped for and I am sorry for this. I hope  that I 
have clearly explained why I have come  to this decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  NewDay Ltd to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8087773