K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the sale of a hire agreement he has with Propel Finance Plc and how 
hes being treated  by them.
At the time of the hire agreement, Propel were known by a different name. But, for ease, I 
shall just refer to Propel.
background
In December 2018, Mr H says he was called by a salesperson, who Ill call A. Mr H says A 
told him, he was calling from the network provider for his mobile telephone. Mr H says he 
spoke to A several  times  about his network  contract, until in February 2019, he eventually 
agreed to upgrade the handsets for him and his wife.
Mr H says A handled all the paperwork and sent him the signed  copies of the contract  for the 
handsets. At this point, Mr H says he questioned A about the contract being in his business 
name and that Propel  were involved as a finance  company. Upon being questioned, Mr H 
says A told him he was now obligated  to make  payments under the contract and that he 
discovered A wasnt actually representing  his former network provider.
Soon after Mr H was given the contract, he complained to Propel. He said that A had used 
his personal details without his authorisation,  and he should have been  given  a cooling off 
period. He also asked  Propel  to cancel the contract  and take back the handsets. 
In their final response to Mr Hs complaint, Propel said that Mr H had opened the contract  
from his email address  and used an electronic signature to sign the forms. They explained  
Mr Hs contract  was a business  contract and didnt have a cooling off period.  Propel  also 
said that they had listened  to a phone call, where  Mr H had discussed to contract  with A.
A also looked into Mr Hs concerns and he says they replied to him with a very discourteous 
letter, which didnt take his complaint seriously.
Mr H didnt accept Propels reply  and brought his complaint  to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the case, but couldnt  listen to the same  telephone call Propel  had used in their 
review, as it had been deleted  due to the passage of time. The investigator didnt uphold Mr 
Hs case and concluded that Propel made Mr H aware of the length of the contract. They 
also found that the contract was sent to Mr Hs email address and the agreement made clear  
both A and Propels  involvement. 
Mr H didnt agree and said he didnt sign the contract with Propel. The investigator didnt 
change their conclusions,  so the case has been  passed to me to make a final decision.
Since the investigators findings, Mr H has told us his monthly payments have increased and 
that A has threated  legal action and repossession of his home. Propel  have told us that Mr H 
has returned the handsets, which have been sold and the funds raised, credited to his 
account. They say that Mr H still has an obligation  to the mobile telephone contract, which is 
due to end in March 2022.
Ref: DRN88628442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its been some time since  the 
investigators conclusions  and I acknowledge the impact  this may have had on Mr H. 
the sale of the hire agreement
Mr H says that A pretended to be from his previous mobile telephone network provider, and 
made it seem that he was simply calling to upgrade his current  handset. Propel say that due 
to the length of time since February 2019,  they no longer have a copy of the sales call from 
A. Ive also asked Propel  if theres  a sales script available, which A used at the time. Propel 
says there  wasnt a set script which A followed.  But, Propel did explain that all sales  calls are 
followed up with another call, once  the equipment has been  sent to a customer.
There isnt a record of what  was discussed  with Mr H, when A made contact with him in 
February 2019. So, Ive considered the other  information available  to decide if Propel treated 
Mr H fairly.
Mr H says he was initially reluctant to talk about  an upgrade to his handset. But, he says 
after a few conversations  with A, he eventually came to an agreement,  to get two brand new 
handsets. Although I agree its likely Mr H was contacted by A to talk about  his current  
handset, I think  Mr H showed he was willing to get the two new handsets, after talking it 
through. So, I dont  think  Propel  treated Mr H unfairly, by starting the application process.
Throughout his complaint  with us, Mr H says he didnt agree to the contract  with Propel. He 
says he didnt sign a paper form or an electronic copy the contract. Mr H says that because  
of this, he shouldnt  be responsible for any payments now due under the contract. Ive 
concluded that I think Mr H wanted to obtain  two new handsets after he had spoken to A. So, 
Ive considered what happened when  the contract for the handsets was sent to Mr H by 
Propel.
Propel have sent us a copy of the contact  records  they have for when the contract  for the 
handsets was sent to Mr H. I can see that the contract was sent to an email address, which 
Mr H uses for a business he owns. Mr H has also used  this email address to correspond with 
us. 
From looking  at the date of the email, I can see that it was sent to Mr Hs email address  the 
day after he had the conversation with A, to get the handsets. So, I think Propel sent the 
contract for the handsets  to an email address Mr H makes use of, and that this was done 
shortly after the agreement was made with A.
The records  go on to show the date and time a link to the contract, sent in the email from 
Propel, was opened and viewed by the recipient. I can see that the link was opened shortly 
after the email  was sent to Mr H on 21 February  2019 and viewed again, later that evening, 
when the contract  was electronically signed. Propel have also made  notes on their contact 
log, to show the location of the device, which was used to open the link to the contract. 
Mr H says that on the day the contract was electronically signed, he attended a training  
course, so wasnt near his home  address. I accept what Mr H says here. But, I dont think 
that means he didnt  electronically sign the contract with Propel. The contact records  show  
Ref: DRN88628443that the contract was signed later in the evening, at a time where  Mr H may have returned 
home. 
Mr H hasnt suggested that his email  address  was used by someone  else at that time, or that 
he was the victim of impersonation fraud.  On balance, I think  its likely Mr H had access to 
his email address,  using  the password or security information needed to view and authorise  
the contract  from Propel.
In all the circumstances, I think after speaking to A, Mr H agreed to get two new handsets. I 
think the contract was sent to the email address of Mr Hs business and was electronically 
signed by someone  who had access to that email  address. I also think  the contract 
contained information which was specific to Mr Hs personal circumstances. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Propel  treated Mr H unfairly by processing the 
hire agreement for the two handsets, in Mr Hs name.
the type of agreement
Ive also thought about Mr Hs point that he had always had his mobile telephone contracts, 
in his personal name, rather than connected to his business. He also says he always owed 
previous mobile  telephones given to him, as part of the network package  and wouldnt have 
entered into an agreement where  handsets would be leased.
The application form from A, the lease agreement and both direct  debit forms were 
completed using  Mr Hs business name. And the email  address  used  with A and Propel is 
that of Mr Hs business. The terms and conditions of the lease agreement forms also make 
mention of business use, rather than personal use.
I acknowledge that Mr H may have only taken out mobile telephone contracts in his personal 
name in the past. But, I think the application and agreement forms Propel have provided, 
show that the contract Mr H entered into was in the name of his business. 
Propel have explained that A called Mr H, a week after the lease agreement was signed and 
Mr H demonstrated his understanding  of the length  and type of contract  that was in place. 
We dont have a recording of that call, so Ive looked  the other information available  to Mr H.
The contract sent to Mr Hs email address, is titled lease agreement with Propel named as 
the owner. The rental period is listed as thirty  six months and theres other information 
included such as the name  and address of Mr Hs business, as well as its bank account 
details. I dont think any of this information was hidden  within  the agreement and that Mr H 
was made  aware  of Propels involvement  as the lease company. 
Mr H has told us that it was his preference to own the handset  instead of leasing it from a 
different company. Ive thought about  this further,  but in all the circumstances, I dont think 
Propel have treated  him unfairly here. I think the agreement made Mr H aware that he 
wouldnt own the handsets and how long the hire agreement would last.
Propels treatment of Mr H with the missed  repayments
Mr H has sent us a photograph of some  items  sent to him by A. He says the items were  
included in a letter, which shows A had treated him with contempt.  I have put what  Mr H 
says to Propel. They  say they dont  have a record of a letter  being sent. Whilst we dont  have 
Ref: DRN88628444a copy of that letter either, given Mr Hs explanation,  Im persuaded the items  were sent to 
him by A. I can also understand  why Mr H found that to be insulting and may show  that A 
didnt take his concerns about  the agreement seriously. 
I think sending items  such as Mr H has described,  is an unorthodox way of reaching out to a 
customer. I think this was poor judgement  on A and Propels part, as to how their response 
would be taken by Mr H, rather than an attempt to trivialise his concerns. But, I dont think  
that means Propel treated Mr H unfairly.
Mr H has explained that Propel have recently been  in touch with him about  the arrears  owed  
under his agreement. He says Propel  have threatened legal  action and repossession of his 
home. Propel have sent us a copy of their contact records with Mr H throughout the last 
couple of months.  I can see that Propel have tried to speak  with Mr H regularly, and at times 
theyve explained  how a default notice  may be served.
Propel say that recordings of the conversations arent available.  But, they have explained 
that repossession of a property, isnt a consequence of Mr H not making  payments. I accept 
that the subject  of Propels contact with Mr H about arrears, may have caused him concerns. 
And I think its likely  Propel  explained the consequences of a default notice being registered  
with credit reference agencies. 
I have considered what each side to the dispute says here and the documents  we have. On 
balance, I dont think Mr H has received notice from Propel that they intend  to pursue a 
repossession order  on his home. While  I can see that Mr H has found Propels contact with 
him concerning, I dont  think that means  they have  treated him unfairly.
Mr Hs agreement with Propel still has about a year until its completed. Propel say that, 
other than the arrears  that have accrued, the monthly repayments remain  the same. Mr H 
has explained that he has been  told to pay significantly  more than his monthly repayments. 
I agree  that its likely Mr H was asked by Propel to repay the arrears in addition to his 
monthly payment.  But, considering what Propel says about the contract, I dont  think  they 
have increased  the overall cost which Mr H was expecting to pay. 
Propel says that Mr H has returned  the handsets  to them. They  say they have used the 
proceeds of the sale of the handsets, to reduce the arrears on Mr Hs account. While  I 
acknowledge Mr H no longer has use of the handsets, his contract with Propel remains. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Propel have treated  Mr H unfairly when they have 
spoken to him about the arrears on his agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8862844