K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Vitality Health Limited turned down a claim made under his private  
medical insurance policy.
background
Mr H has a private medical insurance policy, with a personal exclusion applied to it that 
excludes cover for kidney  stones. 
In 2018, Mr H told Vitality hed been experiencing haematuria  (blood in urine).  He asked it to 
authorise a flexible cystoscopy. After  obtaining  some more medical information, Vitality  
turned down the claim. It noted Mr Hs consultant thought the haematuria was caused by his 
kidney stones, and so Vitality thought the cystoscopy  was only needed to rule out another 
cause as a precautionary measure. It referred to Mr Hs exclusion for kidney stones and also 
said the policy doesnt cover precautionary or preventive treatment.
Unhappy with Vitalitys  decision, Mr H brought a complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She thought it had been 
reasonable for Vitality to turn down the claim. 
Mr H has asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so the matter has been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The following  personal medical exclusion applies to Mr Hs policy:
For any treatment that is for, resulting from or is related  to kidney stones is not covered for 
[Mr H].
The policy also excludes:
routine precautionary  or preventive examinations, routine hearing and sight tests,  
vaccinations, screenings (including screenings of familial conditions) or preventive 
treatment.
Mr Hs GP has explained that he referred Mr H to a urologist because  of a urinary  tract 
infection. The urologist identified three kidney stones in the left kidney, but because Mr H 
had haematuria, the urologist referred Mr H to another  specialist (Mr K) so he could have 
investigations to rule out bladder cancer. 
Mr K (a consultant urological surgeon) said it was likely the kidney stones were the cause of 
Mr Hs haematuria. He noted  Mr H had had this for four or five years.  But he said he couldnt  
be 100%  sure without  a flexible cystoscopy that there was no other cause. He said Mr H was 
aware the risk of finding  something significant  was very small, and he was going to think  
about whether  he wanted the cystoscopy  or not. 
Ref: DRN82527862Mr K has since provided some further information.  He confirms that although the haematuria  
could be due to the kidney stones,  for someone  of Mr Hs age, the general consensus  
amongst urologists would  be that he should have a cystoscopy to make sure there was no 
other cause.
Whilst I appreciate a flexible cystoscopy  would be needed to confirm  the cause of the 
haematuria, its apparent that Mr K thought the haematuria was caused by Mr Hs kidney 
stones and that the risk of another significant cause (presumably such as bladder cancer) 
was very small. It therefore seems to me that the cystoscopy was being recommended as a 
precautionary measure,  rather than medically necessary in order  to establish a cause for the 
haematuria.
That being  the case, I think it was reasonable for Vitality to turn down  the claim, on the basis  
that Mr Hs policy excludes treatment resulting from or related to kidney stones, and also 
excludes precautionary examinations.
I understand Mr H has now had the flexible cystoscopy, though I dont know  the results.  If it 
was found the haematuria  had been caused by something other  than Mr Hs kidney stones, 
Id expect Vitality to reconsider the claim.  I see from Vitalitys file that its willing  to do this, 
though I dont know if its communicated that fact to Mr H. 
In turning down  the claim, Vitality  has also said the policy  covers  acute rather  than chronic 
conditions. However,  since Ive already found  that Vitality was entitled to turn down the 
claim, I dont  think I need to consider  this point.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8252786