K820x#14complaint 
Mr B is bringing a complaint as a director  of company C. He complains  that Lloyds Bank 
PLC wont  refund money lost from the business account after it fell victim to a scam. Mr B is 
also unhappy with Lloyds response to a Subject Access Request (SAR) that was made.   
background
In February 2019,  C was victim to a fraud.  
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
On 4 February 2019 C received an email  which appeared to be sent from one of its 
directors, Mr B, asking  for a payment  to be made  to one of its contractors. The email  was 
sent at 11:23 and provided bank details for where the payment should be made,  along  with 
the amount.  It asked  C to email back once this was completed and the email  was signed off 
by Mr B  including his email signature. But it was later discovered  that a fraudster had set 
up an email which appeared as if it was Mr B, but this was not the same  email address. 
Therefore, the reply  email would have gone  to the fraudster  and not Mr B. 
Mrs B, another of Cs directors, picked up the email  and believing  it to be genuine set up a 
new payee and arranged for a payment of £13,489 to be made  from Cs online bank account  
at 11:47. Lloyds have said a notification  text was sent to make C aware a new payee  had 
been set up. Mrs B, on behalf of C, logged  back onto online banking  and the payment of 
£13,489 was validated and sent at 13:07 the same day. 
Mr B explained that when  he returned to the office at around 14:15,  he realised the payment 
wasnt one hed asked  to be made.  Sometime  between 14:15 and 14:40 (Mr B has 
suggested he first contacted Lloyds at 14:15), Mr B and Mrs B tried to get in touch with 
Lloyds to report the payment as a scam. Mr Bs told us that both he and Mrs B attempted  to 
get in touch with Lloyds  by calling several  numbers  and by sending  emails to the contacts 
they had for Lloyds  but were not successful for some time. The fraud  was eventually 
reported to Lloyds at 15:36. 
Lloyds tried to recover the funds,  but it only managed to recover £7,439.57  as some of the 
funds had already  been  removed from the recipient  account.
Mr B was unhappy about this and raised a formal complaint on behalf of C. Mr B feels Lloyds 
didnt have appropriate mechanisms in place for it to report  the fraud  urgently and that it took 
too long to get through to it to raise  the scam payment. Mr B feels  due to the delays  in 
getting through to Lloyds this enabled the fraudster  to remove  £6,049.43 of the funds sent to 
the receiving account. 
Lloyds issued its final response to the complaint on 15 February  2019.  It said the funds were 
transferred through online banking by C and it had no intervention  in this  in that C didnt 
speak to or interact  with Lloyds staff at the time of the payment. Lloyds said it contacted  the 
receiving bank the same day the payment was sent, and £7,439.57 was recovered and 
returned to Cs account on 11 February  2019. Lloyds also explained that its unable to refund 
the remaining  funds  lost as it had carried out Cs instructions and so couldnt be held liable  
for any loss. 
Ref: DRN85868712It did accept there were delays in Mr B being able to speak with the fraud department  to 
raise the payment as a scam. In recognition of this it paid £50 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused and £7.50  for the cost of the telephone call.  
Mr B was unhappy with Lloyds response  and in his reply to it asked to make a SAR on        
22 February 2019. Lloyds,  in response to Cs SAR,  said that as it was a corporate entity 
(Limited company) or company official acting on behalf of that entity (Director) it was unable  
to provide the information requested as it is not covered by the right of access.   
Unhappy with Lloyds  response, Cs complaint was referred to our service by Mr B.
Our involvement so far
One of our investigators  looked into things. He didnt think  the payment was so unusual or 
out of character for C that he thought Lloyds ought reasonably to have intervened before 
processing the payment. Our investigator  agreed  Lloyds  could  have answered  Cs calls 
sooner than it did but didnt think it would have made any difference  in the amount 
recovered. Overall, he thought the compensation Lloyds had paid was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Our investigator, when considering Cs SAR, felt in the circumstances Lloyds could have 
treated this as a request  for information  rather than a formal  SAR. Although he explained the 
SAR aspect wouldnt have had any impact on the recovery  of the funds. 
Mr B, acting on Cs behalf, didnt accept  the investigators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. In summary  Mr B said:
C had regular and repeat payments out of the account made to companies. It 
questions how the scam payment, which was a one-off payment to an individual  with 
an Eastern European name can be considered similar to its normal account activity.   
Lloyds publicises that it can take up to two hours  for a payment to be made and this 
didnt happen  on this occasion. 
Mr B, on behalf of C, feels Lloyds resistance to provide the information he requested 
was unreasonable.  
Because C didnt  agree  with the investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed  
to me to decide.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to C, and I can understand entirely  why Mr B, on Cs 
behalf, feels so strongly  that the money should  be returned to C. But having thought very 
carefully about Lloyds actions,  I think  it did act fairly  and reasonably in allowing the transfer 
to leave Cs account. And even if I consider Lloyds could have tried to recover  the funds 
Ref: DRN85868713earlier than it did - had C been able to report the fraud sooner - Im satisfied this wouldnt 
have made  a difference in this case. 
So having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Cs complaint.  I do appreciate
how disappointing this will be for Mr B, on behalf  of C, but I dont think  I can fairly say that 
Lloyds should  reimburse C with the £6,049.43 C has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms  like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of)
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
Both C and Lloyds agree the payment was authorised. Because  of this, Lloyds was expected  
to follow  Cs instruction. But there are some situations in which  it should reasonably have 
had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer  - as Ive explained. I 
consider that as a matter of good  practice Lloyds shouldve  been on the lookout for unusual 
and out of character transactions.
Did Lloyds act fairly  and reasonably when it processed the payment instruction?
Ref: DRN85868714With this in mind, Ive first thought about whether the payment C made was out of character 
and unusual.
Ive reviewed Cs statements from December  2018  to the date the money was sent to the 
fraudster. Having done so, in the two months  leading up to the scam I can see there were  
several other  faster payments in excess of £10,000. The payment to the fraudster also didnt 
clear the account  or leave it in a negative position. From what Ive seen,  I dont think the 
scam payment stands  out in terms of its amount, or the position it leaves the account  in, 
given how Ive seen  it normally operates. So, I dont think  the payment to the fraudster was 
sufficiently out of character or unusual compared to the typical spending on the account.  I 
also have to keep  in mind that this was a business  account and, therefore, it is typically  an 
active account where there are large incoming and outgoing amounts. 
Mr B, on Cs behalf, has suggested the scam  payment is different to the other payments 
made from Cs account as those  are usually made to companies and not made to an 
Eastern European  name.  Mr B has also said that the other payments on the account werent 
typically to new payees. Ive thought about Cs points carefully - but looking at the payment I 
dont consider this to stand out from other genuine payments on Cs account.  Looking at the 
statements leading up to the scam  I can see payments  were  made  to both businesses and 
individuals. I appreciate C believes the payment is different in its nature, and while I accept 
the payment is slightly different, Im not persuaded it is different enough for me to fairly  and 
reasonably conclude Lloyds ought to have intervened here.  
Further the payment  was made to a UK bank  account   and even if Lloyds had noted  the 
account holders  name, this in itself would not be a reason for it to make additional enquiries 
before processing  a payment.  At the time this payment was made,  the relevant regulations - 
 the Payment Services Regulations  2017  (PSR 2017) set out that payments are sent 
according to unique identifiers (typically  the account number and sort code). This means 
the payment was correctly processed if it went to the account  number and sort code  
instructed by the payer. At the time the payment  was made, there also wouldnt have been 
any way of checking the name on the receiving account. 
Ive also thought about the fact the payment was sent to a new payee. While I acknowledge 
that most  payments made from the account  were to existing payees,  I dont find that a 
payment to a new payee was in and of itself so suspicious  and unusual  that Lloyds ought  to 
have been concerned Cs account was at risk of fraud or financial harm. I say this as I can 
see a new payee  was set up and a payment made  the same day for £12,606  around  a week  
before the scam payment. 
Overall, from what Ive seen, the scam payment doesnt strike  me as particularly unusual or 
suspicious in relation to Cs typical account  activity. Ive reached  that position  having thought 
about the characteristics of the payment in individual terms and also what they collectively  
add up to. So, I dont  think Lloyds acted unreasonably in not making  enquiries  about the 
payment before processing it.
Reporting and recovery  of funds
Ive gone on to think about  whether Lloyds did what it shouldve  done once C reported the 
scam. Ive looked into the attempts Lloyds made to recover the money, once C reported the 
scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Lloyds to refund the money to C, I need to be 
satisfied Lloyds should have acted sooner in trying  to recover the money. And if I dont  think 
it acted soon enough, I need to decide  whether it made any difference.  
Ref: DRN85868715Ive been given persuasive evidence  from the receiving bank which  shows the unrecovered 
funds were moved out of the receiving  bank account between 13:13 and 14:22.  This means  
any attempt to recover the funds after this point  would  have been unsuccessful.  
Mr B has suggested Lloyds was first contacted  at 14:15. Even if I consider what  Mr B has 
said about the time of 14:15  to be true, although  there is limited  information to support this, 
and that hed managed to get through quickly to report the scam, it is highly unlikely that any 
more funds would have been  recovered.  
I say this because  on getting through to report the scam it would have taken time to record 
the details of the scam and for the bank then to get in touch with the receiving bank. The 
receiving bank would then have to react to the notification in time. It would need  to locate the 
account and put blocks on the recipient account. So, my consideration of this point has to 
take into account that the timeline  is not just Lloyds  reporting of the scam. Given the 
evidence shows the unrecovered funds were  moved  out of the receiving account between  
13:13 and 14:22, it is unfortunately very unlikely, in such  a short  space of time,  any more  
funds would have  been recovered. And based on what Ive previously  seen in these 
situations, fraudsters  usually move funds on quickly - as was the case here. 
It is accepted by Lloyds there were delays in C being able to speak to the fraud  department 
and I would agree that the length  of time it took for C to be able to report the scam  was 
unsatisfactory. But whilst I can completely understand  how frustrating this wouldve  been at 
the time for Mr B, Im not persuaded it made a difference to the recovery  of funds for the 
reasons Ive explained above.  
As Ive said,  I do agree  C did not receive  the level of service  Id expect to see in relation to 
the delay in being able to report the payment as a scam but I find the £57.50  paid by Lloyds 
to make up for its service  failings to be fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
C has also referred to Lloyds publicising that it can take up to two hours  for payments to be 
made and this not happening on this occasion. 
I can see the new payee and payment was set up at 11:47 am on 4 February 2019. There  
was a pause on the payment and a text message was sent by Lloyds to confirm a new 
payee had been set up. The payment was subsequently validated at 13:07:18 pm and the 
payment made at 13:07:33 pm. 
While I appreciate Cs thoughts in relation  to this, the payment in these circumstances was a 
Faster Payment. Lloyds  indicates these can take up to two hours,  but payments are more 
commonly available immediately. And ultimately  the payment in this case  was paid within  
two hours  as published by Lloyds. 
I am sorry  that C has lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money for it to have lost. I also 
understand this whole experience was frustrating and upsetting for Mr B. But in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can fairly say Lloyds  should  refund  C the remaining funds lost. 
SAR 
Ive also thought carefully about Cs concerns relating to the SAR made to Lloyds. While Id 
like to assure Mr B that I can appreciate  Lloyds response may have caused him frustration 
during a difficult time, when considering this aspect, I need to keep  in mind the 
Ref: DRN85868716inconvenience and impact this matter has had on C itself - rather than Mr B as a director of 
it. This is because any personal  inconvenience  to Mr B has not impacted directly on C. Ive 
considered Mr Bs personal  views  about not receiving the information  he requested for the 
reasons Lloyds has explained  (set out above).  From  the notes Ive seen Lloyds did provide 
Mr B, with information around  timings as to when funds  were transferred from the recipient 
account at its discretion.  I recognise this was not all the information  Mr B, on behalf of C, had 
requested but it is not the role of this service  to decide whether there has been a breach of 
data protection  law or what information  should  or should not have been supplied. As I have 
explained to Mr B prior to this decision, an individual can make a SAR to ask for their own 
personal data, but a business cannot- this is because information  relating to companies isnt 
personal data. For this reason, I make no award in relation to this. 
As a final point to note,  Mr B recently  mentioned  there is a code in place where  banks now 
help victims and compensate them. Here I understand Mr B is referring to the CRM  code, 
which says a customer can expect  to be reimbursed where they were  not to blame for the 
success of a scam. But the CRM Code came into force on 28 May 2019, which was after Cs 
payment. The CRM  Code  sets out that it doesnt  apply to any payments completed before  it 
came into force. So, this point doesnt  change my findings outlined above.  
my final decision 
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Cs complaint  against
Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8586871