K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain  about how esure  Insurance Limited handled a claim on their car 
insurance following  a collision. They also complain that they werent given the details of the 
third party.
This is a joint complaint  by Mrs B and Mr B. However, for ease, I shall refer to them 
individually where they have said or done something themselves, and jointly  when they have 
acted together.
Background
Mrs B insured her car with esure. Mr B was a named driver on the policy.
Mr B was involved  in a collision  with another car. The other driver didnt leave his full name  
and address with Mr B. A claim  was opened  with esure.
Having identified the other driver,  esure  decided to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis with the 
third partys  insurance company. This was disputed by Mrs B and Mr B. They  said Mr B was 
completely fault free. And it wasnt fair of esure  to record the claim as fault against him.
A personal  injury claim was then made by the third party, which  was again settled as 50/50 
liability basis  between the insurance companies.  Mrs B and Mr B again disagreed with this 
and complained to esure.
Esure responded that theyd decided to settle  the claim  on a 50/50 basis as there werent 
any independent witnesses or other evidence, such as CCTV. They said their terms and 
conditions allowed them to decide  on the most appropriate outcome for the claim, and were 
acting in accordance  with these in their decision.
Mrs B and Mr B disagreed. They told to esure to provide them  with the details of the third 
party so that they could  take him to court. esure  said they werent able to do this, as the data 
they held on the third party was personal,  and therefore  restricted.  They advised Mrs B and 
Mr B that they could  request  the details from the third partys insurer, and gave them  the 
insurers details.
Mr B complained to esure about  this. In their final response letter,  esure said that having 
reviewed their liability decision, they maintained  that the settlement of 50/50  was correct, 
and that they had acted  in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the policy. They also 
maintained they werent able to provide Mr B details of the third party  as this was personal 
information that they were unable to disclose, and again advised him to approach  the third 
partys insurer.
Mr B brought the complaint to our service.  He also complained that although Mrs B had 
bought additional Motor  Legal Protection  (MLP) with her policy,  esure  werent abiding by the 
terms of this protection. 
The investigators view was that esure  had been fair and reasonable in deciding  to settle the 
claim on a 50/50 basis, given the lack of independent witnesses or other  evidence.  
He also thought that esure had acted  correctly in not providing the details of the third party  to 
Mr B, as they were  restricted in revealing  the personal information  they held about other 
Ref: DRN84554182people. And he thought  theyd been  reasonable in advising Mr B that he could approach  the 
other insurance company for these details. 
The investigator also thought that the cover  provided by the MLP did not provide Mrs B or 
Mr B protection where they wanted to take another driver to court.
Mr B did not agree.  He said he was not asking for a view on esures  determination of liability, 
as that was for a court to decide. He did dispute  however,  that esure should be able to make 
that determination unilaterally. And then not allow himself or Mrs B to either pursue the third 
party through their MLP policy, or provide him the information he required to take the matter 
to court  himself. 
So, the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their response to the investigators view, Mrs B and Mr B have said they are not disputing  
esures decision on liability in this case.  Whilst they clearly dont agree with esures  decision,  
what they are disputing is that esure  should  be able to make  that decision themselves, 
without Mrs B and Mr Bs agreement.
This is clearly a matter  of great  principle  to Mrs and Mr B and I fully understand their 
frustration, as they dont  agree with the way the claim has been handled. I also understand 
this in the context  of them having,  on previous occasions, been  able to successfully argue 
liability, alongside Mr Bs long unblemished driving record. 
However, when I look at the terms and conditions in Mrs Bs policy,  I can see esures ability  
to determine liability is included under the heading Claims procedure.  Here it says, in 
summary, esure  have  full discretion  to settle  any claim or legal proceedings that arise.
So, esure is entitled, under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs B, to take over,  
defend, or settle a claim as it sees  fit. And this means esure can settle  the claim as they feel 
appropriate irrespective  of whether Mr and Mrs B agree with the outcome. This is a common  
term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual.  And I think its a reasonable 
term, as ultimately esure will have to pay any settlement, so they should be able to decide 
how to settle. 
This having been said, I would still expect esure to act reasonably when relying on this term 
and properly consider the matter before proposing a settlement. And Im satisfied  esure have 
done this. I can see theyve said their settlement is without prejudice , meaning Mrs B and Mr 
B would have been able to go to court to try and recover  any uninsured loss, although, it 
doesnt appear that they have any. So, I think esure  have acted reasonably in the 
circumstances.
Mr B has also complained that esure  have refused to disclose to them the details of the 
other party in the accident. He wants these details to enable him to take them to court 
themselves. 
Ref: DRN84554183esure have  said they cant do this. They  said that this was personal information, and as such 
they were restricted in what they could release and to whom.  And they said that this wasnt  
their information anyway. They did however, advise Mr B that he could  approach the other 
drivers insurance company and request the information, as they owned it. They  gave Mr B 
the insurance companys details. 
I think this was a reasonable decision by esure, as they are restricted  in how they store and 
release personal  data.  And I think they have been  fair in advising Mr B how he might get 
what he needs. So, I wont  be asking  esure  to do anything more in this regard.
Mr B has also questioned why their additional  MLP did not help them, as this is why they 
paid an extra premium.  This is intended  to help them recover uninsured  loss, defend  
motoring prosecutions and in disputes over the accuracy of data. As I have already 
mentioned, Mr and Mrs B dont appear to have any uninsured  losses. And they dont have a 
pending motoring  prosecution or a dispute over the accuracy of data, so it is not relevant in 
their case.  
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2020.
Chris Riggs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8455418