K820x#14ion: 23 October 2019
Complaint
Mr M is the director  of E. H. Ltd, a private limited company.
He has complained, as director,  that Santander UK Plc wont refund unauthorised cash 
withdrawals from the companys account. 
Background
E. H. Ltd has two directors:  Mr M and Mr K. Both are signatories  to the companys account 
with Santander.  Both were issued with debit cards  for the account.
On 21 October 2017, Mr M received  several text messages  on his mobile phone  from 
Santander asking  him to contact it. When he called back, Santander told him there had been 
three cash withdrawals from the companys account totalling £550.  He said he didnt 
recognise them. 
Two of the cash withdrawals were made on 20 October 2017  at 23.45 for £260  and at 23.52 
for £40. The third transaction happened  the next day, albeit a few minutes  later, on 21 
October at 00.22 for £250.  
The disputed transactions were all made at ATMs in the Coventry area.  They were made 
with the debit card for the account issued to Mr M and his PIN.
Below is a table that shows the disputed transactions and other  relevant activities.
Date Time Transaction/Activity Location Amount Outcome
faster payment  received  
from Mr Ms savings 
account£1,070 C 18/10/17
genuine balance  enquiry south London
20/10/17 12.31 genuine ATM cash 
withdrawal (Asda)south London
£10 D successful
23.44 disputed ATM cash 
withdrawal (Asda) Coventry £500 declined
23.45 disputed ATM cash 
withdrawal (Asda) Coventry £260 D successful
23.46 disputed ATM cash 
withdrawal (Asda) £240 declined
23.50 disputed ATM cash 
withdrawalCoventry £250 declined
23.50 disputed ATM cash 
withdrawalCoventry £240 declined20/10/17
23.51 disputed ATM balance  
enquiry Coventry £0
Ref: DRN8556769223.52 disputed ATM cash 
withdrawalCoventry £40 D successful
00.22 disputed ATM cash 
withdrawalCoventry £250 D successful
00.23 disputed ATM balance  
enquiry Coventry £0
00.23 disputed ATM cash 
withdrawalCoventry £50 declined
00.23 disputed ATM cash 
withdrawal Coventry £50 declined
00.23  -  
6.46Santander  sent text messages  to Mr Ms mobile phone
04.23 disputed Pay at Pump  Birmingham £1 pin bypass - 
declined
8.32 Mr M called  Santander  - call disconnected
12.12 Mr M called Santander and confirmed transactions unrecognised.
Card blocked21/10/17
14.35 disputed ATM balance  
enquiry Coventry £0 card retained
What Mr M told us
Mr M said he didnt  make  the cash withdrawals and knew nothing  about them.  
He told us he lives with his parents. He said he kept his card in a cardholder  in his jacket  and 
in his bedroom when at home. He had memorised his PIN and didnt keep a written note of 
it. He has never allowed  anyone to use his card and PIN. He also confirmed  that the other 
director, Mr K, has never borrowed or had access to his debit card for the account. And he 
said Mr K didnt have a debit card for the account.
Initially, he said he remembered using his card on 20 October  2017  to make a £10 cash  
withdrawal before going for a haircut.  He didnt  remember anyone  being close enough at the 
ATM to see his PIN and didnt notice anything strange  or unusual in the surroundings. 
Subsequently, he told us hed gone to a McDonalds in southeast  London, then drove for ten 
minutes to the ATM in south London  where  he withdrew £10. He said he put the £10 note in 
his pocket, not his wallet.  He said he went into central London for his haircut as he had a 
meeting in town and felt that was a safe place.
He described McDonalds as busy.  He said he thought someone might have seen him using 
his PIN there.
He also said he is well known in the area and people often follow or approach  him. He said 
his car is also well known.
He noticed his card was missing on the morning  of 21 October, after getting the text 
messages from Santander. He doesnt  know where  or precisely when he lost it. He said hed 
also lost his wallet containing his driving  licence but he no longer has any proof that he 
reported the loss to DVLA. He couldnt remember if he still had the cardholder on him.
Ref: DRN85567693Mr M also told us he was in London when the transactions happened and never travels to 
Coventry or Birmingham when he is in the UK. 
He told us he doesn't withdraw large  amounts of cash  from this account. He asked  us why 
Santander didnt  send him any text alerts about the transactions, which were unusual  for the 
account. He told us he has never keyed his PIN into any device, other  than an ATM  or card 
terminal.
Mr M told us he reported what happened to the police and asked for CCTV footage,  on 
Santanders advice.  He said the police  couldnt  assist him. He didnt get a crime reference  
number.
Mr Ms call to Santander
Mr M rang Santander on 21 October  at 8.32 and 12.12. Ive listened  to the second call. 
He said he was calling in response  to its text messages about the transactions, (even  though 
he later told our adjudicator he didnt  receive  any text alerts).
The adviser asked  him for three digits from his online passcode. He hesitated and said he 
didnt have it with him. The adviser  asked him if he was at home. He replied he was. The 
adviser asked him for a debit or credit  card number. He said he didnt have his debit  card. 
He said when he saw the text messages, he searched for his debit card but couldnt find it 
anywhere in the house. He could remember that the last genuine transaction was a £10 
cash withdrawal for a haircut  on 20 October.
The adviser said the person who made  the cash withdrawals knew  his PIN. Mr M replied 
hed used his card in busy  places. The adviser  went through the transactions,  starting  with 
the Tesco Pay At Pump transaction. He asked  Mr M if hed tried to get any petrol. Mr M 
replied No. Not at all. I dont even [muffled] drive. He denied making any of the transactions.  
The adviser asked  him if he went out on the night  of 20 October. He replied No. Not really. 
Standard. Just a littleeating.
What the bank says
Santander refused  to refund the disputed transactions. It is treating Mr M as having made 
them.
Santander told us there  were two debit cards associated with this account  and each  director 
had a card.  The disputed  transactions were made  with the card issued to Mr M.
It said the transactions were CHIP and PIN verified which meant  they were made with 
Mr Ms actual  card and PIN. The PIN was keyed  in correctly first time. There were no 
incorrect attempts. This indicates that whoever made the cash  withdrawals already knew  the 
PIN. 
Santander concluded there  was no obvious  point of compromise for the PIN. In other words, 
it couldnt see how an unknown third party, who had found or stolen Mr Ms debit card, would 
know his PIN. This is based on Mr Ms own evidence that hed memorised the PIN, he didnt 
keep a written note of it and he hadnt  shared his card and PIN with anyone else, not even 
Mr K.
Ref: DRN85567694Santander considered whether hed been  shoulder surfed. It said the only time this could 
have happened  was on 20 October  at 12.31 when he last used his card.  The first disputed 
cash withdrawal happened  at 23.45.  Santander didnt believe a fraudster would wait over 
11 hours before using  the card. It said a fraudster  would make quick  use of the card before it 
was reported lost and cancelled.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. He agreed there was no obvious point of 
compromise for the PIN. And he thought it was unlikely he was the victim  of shoulder surfing 
because Mr M said he took great  care with his PIN and didnt notice anything  strange the 
last time he used the card.  
He also thought a fraudster would  have used the card quickly in the local area before the 
loss was discovered and the card cancelled. He didnt  think it likely a fraudster would  wait 
11 hours before using  it at a location more than 90 miles away.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view.  He has asked  for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant time.
With that in mind, I shall start by setting out what I have identified  as the relevant 
considerations to deciding  what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
relevant considerations
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 
2009). The particular provisions Ive taken  into account in this case  are as follows:
Consent and withdrawal of consent
55.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Evidence on authentication  and execution of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service user
(a) denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b) claims that a payment  transaction  has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider  to prove  that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment  service  providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some  other  deficiency.
Ref: DRN85567695(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove  either that
(a) the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; 
Payment service providers liability for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 and 60, where  an executed payment transaction  was not 
authorised in accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  
immediately
a) refund the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer;  and
b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state  it would have 
been in had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Did E. H. Ltd authorise  the disputed cash  withdrawals?
I have to decide whether E. H. Ltd authorised the disputed cash withdrawals, as it is the 
accountholder. However, in practice, I have to consider  whether  Mr M made the cash 
withdrawals himself or gave permission  to someone else to make them, as the company 
director and signatory.
 
Authentication
As Ive mentioned  above, the regulations  require Santander to prove  that the cash  
withdrawals were authenticated.  So, I need  to decide this first.
Santander said the transactions were CHIP and PIN verified. This means that Mr Ms actual 
card - and not a cloned card - was used with his PIN. 
Ive seen a copy  of the electronic audit  report for the transactions. They confirm that the cash 
withdrawals were made at ATMs  and that the chip in the card was read.  The code for 
incorrect PIN attempts is not recorded  anywhere. I can reasonably infer from the information 
that Mr Ms debit card and the correct PIN must have  been used for the disputed cash  
withdrawals. The ATM withdrawals couldnt  have happened  without  them.
I am satisfied that Santander can show the transactions were authenticated.
Consent
The use of his card and PIN link Mr M to the disputed cash  withdrawals and the other 
activities listed in the table. 
However, its not enough for Santander to say the cash withdrawals were authenticated. The 
regulations say a payment out of someones account can only be authorised  if the payer has 
consented to it. In other words, the cash  withdrawals  can only be authorised if Mr M has 
consented to them  either  by making the transactions himself or allowing someone else to 
make them. And it isnt enough  for Santander  to say he consented simply because his card 
and PIN were used.  
Ref: DRN85567696Mr M has said he didnt make these transactions and wasnt  in the Coventry or Birmingham 
area on 20/21 October 2017. This means  I have  to consider alternative scenarios for what 
might have happened that night. It seems to me there are three scenarios:
an unknown third party made the cash  withdrawals after shoulder surfing Mr M and 
stealing his card
Mr M made  the cash  withdrawals
someone he knew made the cash withdrawals with his card.
Ive considered which I think is the most  likely, taking into account  Santanders records and 
Mr Ms description of events. But I acknowledge that I cannot know for sure what occurred; 
its a decision I must  make on the balance of evidence. Having done  so, I think its more  
likely than not, that Mr M made the withdrawals  himself,  or he allowed someone  he knew to 
use his card. Ill explain why I have reached this conclusion.
Mr M said he couldnt remember  when  or where he lost his card. He only remembers  that he 
couldnt find it when  he searched for it, after seeing  the text messages  from Santander.
Someone finding  his card, if hed dropped or mislaid  it, wouldnt be able to use it at an ATM 
without his PIN. They might try guessing it but Santanders records show  there were no 
incorrect attempts at the PIN. A fraudster could  use the card online without the PIN, but this 
didnt happen.
The evidence shows that the person knew his PIN. Yet, Mr M said only he knew it. This begs 
the question, how would  a stranger know his PIN?
Ive considered that he might have been  shoulder surfed. However,  even on Mr Ms own 
evidence, its not clear when this would have happened.  
Mr M thought this might have happened in MacDonalds. However,  his bank statements 
show he didnt use his card in MacDonalds, or any other restaurant, in the period from 
25 January 2017  to 12 December 2017. In fact, he rarely used his card to pay for goods or 
services. But even  if hed been shoulder surfed  in MacDonalds, the fraudster would have 
needed to follow him while he drove to the ATM. Im afraid I dont think  its likely  he was 
followed by someone  hoping for the opportunity to steal  his card and get his PIN.
The only opportunity for an unknown third party to see his PIN was at the ATM  where he 
made the £10 cash withdrawal. However,  Mr M said there was nothing  unusual at the ATM 
and he didnt remember anyone being  close to him. 
Its not uncommon for people to forget facts or remember  key information after they first 
report an incident. However, at no time since making his complaint has Mr M mentioned   
another person at the ATM. I think if a stranger  had been close to him, or distracted him 
when he keyed in his PIN, then he would have remembered.
Mr Ms statement to Santander was, for the most part, consistent with what  he told us. But 
when answering  Santanders question about  the Pay At Pump  transaction, he said I dont 
even.drive. However, hes admitted he drives. He told us hed lost his driving licence with 
his wallet. And he told us hed driven  to the ATM from MacDonalds  and that his car is well 
known. He also told Santander hed used his card in busy  places. But hed only used it at 
ATMs. 
Ref: DRN85567697Ive considered the pattern of the transactions. They were unusual  for the account. Mr M had 
only used his debit  card twice that year for cash withdrawals. The pattern indicates the 
person knew there was money in the account but it seems they didnt  know  the daily 
withdrawal limit. I say this because there wasnt a balance enquiry before the first cash 
withdrawal for £500. The statement for the account shows  that Mr M had paid £1,070  into 
the account on 19 October  so he knew there  was money in the account. 
However, the first transaction  was declined. The second transaction was successful. The 
third, fourth and fifth transactions were declined.  These were  followed by a balance  enquiry 
and a cash withdrawal  for a smaller  amount of £40.
I would normally expect  a cardholder to know their daily ATM limit but if Mr M didnt use this 
card frequently  and it was a business account  - he might have forgotten it.
There was also a balance  enquiry  after Santander  told him it had blocked his card.  
Ordinarily, this would  indicate that someone else was using his card, as Mr M knew  his card 
was blocked. However,  in his conversation with Santander he was very anxious to know  the 
balance in his account. He didnt  get an answer  to that question.  He was only told how much 
money had been  withdrawn. So, if he did have his card,  he might have thought he could 
check the account balance with it.
Admittedly, this is speculation. Ultimately, I have  to make a decision based  on what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.  In reaching that decision, I must balance  
Mr Ms evidence  against  the evidence from Santander. Having done so, I dont  think Mr Ms 
version of events is wholly consistent or reliable. Crucially, theres no credible evidence  of 
how an unknown third party might  have got hold of his debit card and PIN. 
Ive considered whether someone  he knew made the transactions with his card. However,  
he has repeatedly  and consistently said he didnt  share his card or PIN with anyone else. In 
which case, the only option left is that he made the disputed cash  withdrawals himself.
Im afraid, on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr M made the cash withdrawals. 
Consequently, I consider  that E.H. Ltd authorised the disputed  transactions.  In these 
circumstances, I dont  consider it is fair and reasonable to ask Santander  to refund the cash  
withdrawals.
This will be disappointing news  for Mr M but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear. I 
am grateful for his patience while  we looked  into his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am rejecting this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Ref: DRN85567698Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8556769