K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about a claim  on a furniture warranty,  which  covered his sofa.  As the 
underwriter of the warranty, Ageas Insurance Limited is responsible  for this.
background 
Mr K accidentally spilt paint on his sofa while decorating. He claimed  on his warranty. Ageas 
sent a technician to look at the sofa, who confirmed that the claim was covered.  The 
technician said the fabric cover of the sofa and some of the cushions  were beyond repair 
and would need to be replaced.
Ageas provided  replacement covers for the sofa and two cushions. These were provided by 
the manufacturer of the sofa, using fabric  that matched the original sofa and cushion  covers. 
Mr K complained that the covers  took too long to arrive and were insufficient  when  they did. 
He asked for a credit  note instead.  He said the store where hed originally bought the sofa 
and warranty had told him he should demand a credit note.
Ageas responded to the complaint  to say it had settled the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the warranty  and within its expected timescales. And that it would  send a 
technician to fit the covers  at Mr Ks request. It said the fabric  covers provided were  as set 
out in the technicians report.
Mr K was unhappy with this. He provided  us with photos showing a third cushion cover  had 
been damaged  by the paint  a fact which was also confirmed in the technicians  report. As a 
result, Ageas  sent out a new cover for the third cushion. But Mr K was unhappy.  The pattern 
wasnt the same as the third damaged cushion cover (which,  unlike  the other two that were 
damaged, had a flowery  pattern). Ageas said the replacement was nevertheless sufficient 
because the pattern was the same  as the other cushions on the sofa.
I understand that Mr K has since disposed of the sofa and bought  a replacement. However, 
he has retained the replacement fabric  covers in case Ageas wants them  back. At different 
times Mr K has said he wants a credit  note for £200 (roughly what he paid for the warranty) 
or for the amount he paid for the sofa.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Ageas had done enough to settle
the claim.  Mr K disagreed,  so the complaint has been passed  to me.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was planning  to award Mr K £100  in recognition of 
problems that I felt Ageas was at fault for  given that Mr K had replaced  the sofa, which 
limited the options  available.  
Ageas replied to say it accepted my provisional  decision. Mr K replied to say he didnt  have 
the engineer fit the replacement covers because  Ageas told him this would mean hed 
accepted the settlement offered  which he didnt. That he waited nine months  before 
replacing the sofa  which he feels was reasonable. And that this was only after his daughter  
got a rash from the spilled  paint. So he didnt think the £100 compensation that I proposed 
was sufficient given  Ageas  failures. 
my findings
Ref: DRN86139612Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mr Ks and Ageas responses to 
my provisional decision. Having done  so, Im not persuaded that I should change  the 
proposed award  of £100. 
Ive looked at the policy document  to see what the warranty  says about how claims should  
be settled. It says:
Valid claims will be settled by cleaning, repairing or replacing the damaged  product.  If 
a repair  can be made then this must be attempted prior to a replacement being  
considered.
Where we are not able to clean, repair or replace the damaged product satisfactorily:
oWe will issue a credit note for use at the same retailer  from which  you 
originally purchased the product,
oIf the retailer has ceased to trade or has moved,  we will issue a credit note for 
use at a similar retailer of our choice that is local to you, or
oWe may choose to provide an offer of cash settlement at a lower value than 
the purchase price  in lieu of replacement whereby the damaged  product will 
remain your property  in its current condition.
oThe value of the credit  note will be the amount you paid for the product less 
any previous claims, or if the damaged  item is non-integral and therefore 
easily separated, for the cost of replacing that item only, subject to the 
maximum liability.
If your claim is settled  by credit note we reserve the right to take sole ownership  of 
the defective product. If we wish to take such ownership, the defective product will be 
collected at the same  time as the replacement product  that you select  is delivered. 
Until such time you cannot sell or dispose of the defective product without the 
administrators prior written consent.  If we choose not to collect  the defective product 
as above the ownership of it and the responsibility for it will remain  solely with you.
So, in simple terms, Ageas must clean, repair or replace the damaged product. On this 
occasion, the damaged product was the fabric  covers of the sofa and three cushions. The 
sofa itself, and the cushions, were not damaged. The technician  confirmed the fabric  covers 
couldnt be cleaned  or repaired,  so should  be replaced.
Ageas says it has replaced the damaged covers and offered to fit them if required. But Mr K 
is unhappy with this and has since disposed of the sofa. He said that he will return  the 
replacement covers if required.
I think Ageas  has settled the claim broadly  in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  
It has replaced the damaged covers. Had Mr K replaced these, or got Ageas technician to 
do so, the sofa would be returned to the condition it was in before the paint was spilt on it. I 
can see no reason why Ageas should  have  to replace the whole sofa or provide a credit note 
equal to the amount Mr K paid for the sofa.
However, the third cushion cover Ageas provided  didnt  match  the one that was damaged.  It 
appears this was carelessness on the part of Ageas, as it appears there was no attempt to 
confirm or check the pattern of the damaged cushion before ordering the replacement cover. 
Had it done so, the manufacturer  couldve provided  a replacement that matched the original. 
However, I dont know for sure that the manufacturer  still had the matching flowery  fabric.  Im 
aware that sofa was no longer being  made and the manufacturer said it was nearing the end 
of the original fabric that it had retained. If it didnt  have the matching fabric,  Ageas  couldve 
Ref: DRN86139613explained this to Mr K before sending him the third cushion cover. But it didnt do this, so 
Mr K was annoyed when  it arrived, and he found it wasnt  an exact replacement.
Having considered the complaint overall, Im planning on upholding it in recognition that:
Ageas technician incorrectly reported  that only two cushion covers  required 
replacement, instead of three  despite  the photos  he took showing three  had paint 
on them.
Mr K had to point this out and provide additional evidence through  us before Ageas 
attempted to rectify this mistake.
Ageas  then provided a cushion cover  that didnt exactly  match the original,  albeit that 
it did match some  of the other cushions  on the sofa.
putting things right
Had the sofa not been disposed of, I think  the appropriate remedy  wouldve been  to check if 
a matching replacement  cover could be provided for the third cushion. If so, this couldve 
been provided. Mr K would then have been in a position where all the damaged  covers  had 
been replaced and couldve been  fitted.  His sofa would then have been in the same  
condition it was in before he accidentally spilt paint on it. I may have also awarded a small 
amount of compensation to reflect the delay in this being done, which was caused by Ageas 
error.
However, that remedy is no longer possible. But thats not the fault of Ageas, as Mr K chose 
to replace the sofa instead of fitting  the replacement covers and awaiting the outcome  of his 
complaint. I appreciate he waited some time before doing this. But Ageas said Mr K could 
replace the covers himself after it provided  the third cushion cover  or have its engineers fit 
them if he wasnt comfortable doing it himself. At that time,  there  was no suggestion that 
doing so would prevent Mr Ks complaint going forward. The complaint was already with us 
at that point, and he seemed intent on replacing the sofa rather  than having the covers fitted. 
But Ageas did make a mistake.  And this did cause Mr K some inconvenience and 
annoyance. Ageas has effectively said that Mr K would  have  to live the third cushion cover  
not exactly matching  the damaged one. I dont think thats fair and reasonable, because 
Ageas made no attempt  to see if the matching fabric  was available, even after its error  was 
pointed out. At the very least  Id expect it to provide a small amount of compensation for the 
fact that the replacement cover for the third cushion wasnt an exact match  for the existing 
cover (albeit matched the rest of the cushions). 
Ive also thought about how long it took to settle the claim. I think  the initial time taken to 
send the sofa and two cushion covers  was reasonable.  But there was an unnecessary  delay 
caused by Ageas not sending the third cover. So, Ive taken this delay into account.
Having thought about Mr Ks comments,  I still think that £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. This is to recognise that Ageas made  a mistake in only sending replacement  
covers for the sofa and two cushions,  instead of the sofa and three cushions. This caused 
some inconvenience  to Mr K as he had to explain this and provide additional evidence.  It 
also recognises that Ageas could not provide  an exact replacement for the third cushion 
cover, so  had Mr K not decided to replace the sofa  the settlement wouldve left him with 
a slightly different sofa than the original.
Ref: DRN86139614I appreciate that Mr K is unlikely to be satisfied with this. But I still think  the covers  couldve 
been replaced as soon  as they were  received  (or at least after the third cover was provided  
and the complaint was with us. Had that happened, Mr K wouldnt have had to live with the 
damaged sofa for so long,  nor would he have experienced  the additional problems this 
caused. So, because  I dont think Ageas was responsible for those additional problems,  Im 
not increasing the amount  of compensation I proposed in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right, Ageas  Insurance Limited  should  pay Mr K £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8613961