K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Close Brothers  Limited  (Close  Brothers) refused to allow  him to reject a 
vehicle that was faulty at the point  of supply.
background
Mr E took receipt of a used vehicle on 1 September 2018. He funded  the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brother  but, on the same  day, he had problems with 
the car. The timing  chain  had snapped  and the car was returned to the dealership to be 
repaired.
Mr E contacted Close Brothers  on 3 September to tell them  about  the problem. He was 
happy to accept repairs to the vehicle but these  took a long time and Mr E says he only 
accepted the repairs  on the basis they were  completed in a week. So on 27 September  he 
contacted Close Brothers  again and told them he wanted to reject  the vehicle as the 
dealership had taken too long and now wanted  a further two weeks  to rectify the damage.  
Close Brothers contacted  the dealership who offered to pay the first instalment of Mr Es 
finance. They thought this was reasonable and explained that, as Mr E had accepted  
repairs, he no longer  had a right to reject the vehicle.  But Mr E didnt agree and when the 
dealership eventually fixed the car on or around  11 October he refused to accept  it. So Close  
Brothers collected the car and sold it, asking  Mr E to repay the outstanding balance on his 
finance agreement.
Mr E was disappointed with Close Brothers response so he referred his complaint to this 
service and our investigator provided his opinion. He noted that the relevant legislation said 
that where a consumer  had given a dealership the opportunity to repair the car it should be 
done in a reasonable  time and that reasonable time was to be decided  by considering the 
nature of the goods and the purpose  for which the goods were acquired.  He thought it was 
unreasonable to expect  someone to wait for such a long period of time when theyd just 
taken receipt of the car. He realised that the car had required a new engine but he said Mr E 
had given the dealership  three weeks to complete  the repair  and any reasonable person  
wouldnt think the overall delay was acceptable. So he thought Close  Brothers should 
unwind the finance agreement with nothing  further to pay and stop chasing  him for any 
outstanding balance; return Mr Es deposit and pay him £150 to compensate him for the 
trouble and upset  hed experienced.
But Close Brothers  werent happy with the investigators suggested solution. They said that it 
was clear Mr E had been provided with a courtesy  vehicle throughout and that hed had his 
finance instalment  returned for the month hed been  without the car. They said that just over 
four weeks  was reasonable for an engine build and they therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Ref: DRN82091262Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers  is 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
The relevant  legislation  says:
a consumer  who  agrees to the repair of goods cannot require the trader to replace them,  
or exercise  the short term right to reject, without giving the trader a reasonable time to repair 
them
Here its clear that Mr E gave the dealership a chance to repair the faults.  The question is 
whether the repair  was completed in a reasonable time. Mr E had problems from the start. 
The car broke down  on 1 September  2018, the day he took receipt of it, and the dealership 
told him it was ready to collect  on 11 October. So he was without the car for six weeks. 
The relevant  legislation  says there shouldnt be significant inconvenience  to the consumer 
and that we should take account  of:
(a) the nature  of the goods, and (b) the purpose for which the goods  were acquired.
It doesnt say we should take account  of the nature of the repair  but I think  it would be 
reasonable to consider this as Mr E had given approval and it wouldve been clear  to him 
that the repair wasnt a simple  one. 
But Mr E gave the dealership three  weeks before he complained to Close Brothers and 
asked to reject the vehicle. I think thats  reasonable even for the scope of the work involved.  
At that point the dealership had suggested the car would  be ready in two further  weeks  but it 
took even longer than that and I dont think a reasonable consumer would expect to be 
without their car for so long; especially at the onset of a new deal.
I can see that Mr E was provided with a courtesy  car throughout and there  was an offer to 
settle any finance instalments but this doesnt change the fact he could expect the repair to 
be completed in a reasonable timeframe.
So I think the most reasonable resolution would be to allow  Mr E to reject the vehicle.
Ref: DRN82091263my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to:
unwind the finance agreement as though it wasnt entered  into
cease chasing  Mr E for any outstanding  balance  on the account
remove any record of the agreement from Mr Es credit file
refund  Mr Es deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
pay Mr E £150 to compensate him for the trouble and upset  hes experienced
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8209126