K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  mis-sold him a finance 
agreement for a second-hand car.
background
In April 2015, Mr M bought a second-hand  car from his local dealership (who Ill call M). The 
car was valued at £21,610. Mr M bought the car using a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services (MBFS). He paid a deposit of £3,550  and agreed to pay 
£278.51 a month over four years.  His agreement  specified at the end of the four years,  Mr M 
could pay £8,500. If he used this option it would mean hed own the car.
Mr M found out that within a year there was negative equity amounting  to £500 in the car. By 
the end of the second year, this now stood at £1,500. Mr M felt he wasnt  getting what he 
thought hed signed up for under the terms of MBFSs branded  finance  agreement (often 
referred to as a Personal Contract Purchase  PCP).
He has told us  and the Motor Ombudsman  who he also complained to in 2017   he was 
led to believe this agreement  and the car which was the most popular model  would allow  
him to upgrade  after two years and benefit  from the value within the car.
When Mr M was looking  for a car in 2015,  he looked  at a range of alternatives.  He was also 
looking for a car at the same time as his brother who also reviewed the hire purchase 
options suggested by M. His brother didnt believe this offered what he needed  and went for 
a hire option which he thought gave him better  value.
Mr M said M persuaded him to buy the most popular model in the range. Hed originally 
fancied buying a four-wheel drive model. But he was keen to maintain as much equity as 
possible and was persuaded  by what M told him. 
Mr M said M told him his equity in the car would increase as the agreement  went on, and 
that hed have as much as £10,000  to £12,000  equity by the end of the four-year term. He 
said that, when  he bought  the car, the salesman illustrated how this would work by showing  
actual car sales.
In fact Mr M calculated himself that the equity would be different. Hes told us I assumed 
that I should have equity  of £5,240. So when he discovered in 2017 that his car was to all 
intents and purposes in negative  equity  and the surrender  value stood at £13,728.47, he 
believed hed been essentially mis-sold the car as an investment and complained to M, as 
well as other parties of the MB group.
As M wouldnt help, Mr M took his complaint to the Motor Ombudsman.
The Motor  Ombudsman  didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and stated:
I therefore  cannot see any evidence of mis-selling. It is not to say this did not take place, or 
that there  has been some misunderstanding here, but based  on what  has been presented to 
me by both sides, I cannot conclude that the dealership has deliberately misled you into a 
PCP agreement or caused you any financial  loss.
Ref: DRN82598942So Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator initially  said we wouldnt look 
at Mr Ms complaint. We have  the power to dismiss complaints where  an alternative dispute 
resolution service  like the Motor  Ombudsman   has already made a decision  on similar 
circumstances. Mr M argued he was asking us to look at the finance agreement rather  than 
the mis-sale of the car itself. An email from him dated 12 April 2018 confirmed this. His 
original complaint had also been  tied up with the part-exchange deal hed negotiated with M.
We continued to look at Mr Ms complaint against MBFS. Theyd  given Mr M a final response 
on 16 March 2018, which was after him first referring his complaint to us.
Our investigator was satisfied Mr M had been  given enough information about the finance 
agreement. He didnt find it plausible Mr M had been  told his car would have up to £12,000 
equity in it after four years. He also said his brothers  car wasnt a like for like comparison as 
it was financed by a business lease,  not a PCP agreement.
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators findings. He advised us that hed obviously not been  
daft enough to believe  his card would increase in value (which is really  what wed be saying 
if Mr M was to expect £12,000 in equity). His assumption was hed have more  than £5,000  
worth of equity in the car.
Mr M has asked  an ombudsman  to consider his complaint. During  the period Mr M has been 
waiting for his complaint to be resolved, I understand  he decided to opt to purchase his car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than both parties  and 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single point  made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what  I think  
are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects which  
impact the decision Im making.
Its worth  confirming  there are many detailed emails and correspondence  from Mr M and Ive 
reviewed these carefully in coming  to my decision. Ive also noted our investigator  wrote a 
detailed view on 9 April 2019 which laid out the history of M Ms complaint fully.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Personal Contract Purchase agreements and the parties involved
A Personal Contract Purchase agreement is a type of Hire Purchase  agreement that allows  
a consumer to pay for certain goods  in instalments over a period  of time. At the end of that 
Ref: DRN82598943period, the consumer has the option to make one final, larger payment and become the legal 
owner of the goods. The monthly  instalment paid also reflects  there is an end payment.
So, at the start of the transaction, the dealer actually sells the car to the finance  company  
which, in turn, hires  the car to the consumer.  The final,  larger  payment is often referred to as 
a balloon payment.  This balloon payment is guaranteed. The customer  knows they wont  be 
charged any more.
In Mr Ms case, the dealership was M. So it was M who provided  Mr M with information  
about the car, its value and the finance agreement. Even though MBFS wasnt present at the 
sale of their finance agreement, I can still consider a complaint against them for that mis-sale 
as M acted  as an agent of MBFS in the sale of the finance agreement.  MBFS  as the legal 
owner of the car  are also responsible  for any complaints about quality of goods. Although 
that is not part of the complaint here.
Theres no dispute any false  representation  that may have been  made  were  made  by M. 
When deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable, its worth noting I cant  ignore the 
outcome of a comparable  ombudsman service into essentially  the same  complaint. That 
does suggest  to me, that although Im only considering Mr Ms complaint against MBFS, it 
may well have been the same, regardless of who is being asked to respond to the complaint.
Mr Ms finance agreement
In coming to my conclusion, Ive taken the following aspects  into consideration:
Mr M was looking to buy a car in April 2015. Its clear from what  hes told us that he 
looked at what  M offered but he also looked at alternatives.  
I suspect he was certainly persuaded by the salesman patter  that different cars may 
hold their value  better than others.  That more than likely explains why Mr M went for 
the most  popular  model M sold.
I know Mr M has told us more  recently  that he met with the salesman who sold him 
the car (and who no longer works  for M). He implied that salesmen didnt always tell 
the truth and if they did, successful sales may be limited.  Ive taken this into account 
but I dont think  it provides clear evidence Mr M was told hed get about £10,000 to 
£12,000 equity  in his car at the end of four years.
Mr M has argued quite forcefully hed never  have been  daft enough to believe that 
anyway. He understands that cars devalue.
I suspect thats true. After all Mr M paid £21,610 for a car that was less than a year 
old. The original sales value of that model had been  closer  to £31,000.
Mr M has also confirmed he assumed the level of equity  hed get. This appears  to be 
a figure  he worked out himself. This leads me to believe that any misrepresentation 
that M may have made about  the finance  agreement didnt in itself convince Mr M to 
take the agreement out.
Thats the other crucial aspect  we take into account when we consider 
misrepresentation. Not only whether it happened but whether it led the customer to 
behave in a certain way. I cant say it did here.
I say this because  of how Mr M behaved. Hed considered alternative  funding models 
for a car; his brother had decided not to go the same finance route as Mr M and Im 
sure this must have  held some  sway; and hed done  his own research.  
I havent dismissed what M may have said to Mr M but Im not convinced that 
completely clinched  the decision for Mr M in any case.  
Ref: DRN82598944Ive also seen evidence from MBFS that Mr M signed a number of other documents  
at the time he took out the finance  agreement. These confirmed  the main  points  of 
the agreement
Mr M has never argued he was unaware of what the finance agreement said. The 
Optional Purchase Payment of £8,500 is contained in the second  paragraph  on the 
first page. There is nothing anywhere that mentions equity or value (although the 
purchase payment  is essentially  whats referred  to in the trade as the Guaranteed 
Minimum Future Value).
Im sure Mr M would have completed  a quick totting up of the costs involved:  the 
credit costing  £25,608 over 48 months;  the deposit  of £3,550 and potentially  buying 
the car for £8,500.  All for a car which was being sold to him for £21,610.
Overall I dont believe Mr M relied  on any misrepresentation  of the finance agreement nor 
was that a decisive factor in him taking out the agreement.
I appreciate when Mr M brought his complaint  to us that he was essentially asking the 
question what was the sense in him taking out the agreement he did when compared to the 
agreement his brother  took out. But the agreement his brother took out is completely 
different in nature so isnt really comparable. I understand Mr M believes he ended up with a 
bad deal but I dont think he was misled  into taking out the finance agreement.
Mr M was in touch with the Financial Conduct  Authority early  on in his complaint journey. So 
hell be aware that we are not the regulator on regulated consumer credit agreements. They  
are. I am sure he will be disappointed at the outcome  Ive reached but I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest the finance agreement was unsuitable for him.
I can only apologise for the time Mr M has had to wait for us to reach a conclusion  on his 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint about  
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8259894