K820x#14Complaint
Ms N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough  to help her when she fell 
victim to a scam.
Background
In February 2018,  Ms N found a hand bag she wanted to purchase on an online auction  
website. The seller  told her not to use PayPal, so after some discussion,  Ms N agreed  to 
make a payment  of £1012.50 for the bag direct to the seller. On 25 February  2018  Ms N 
called Barclays and made that payment  using  telephone banking. Later that day she made  a 
further payment  of £200 to the same person for a purse through  her online banking.
When she didnt receive the goods  she had been  promised, and was then unable  to get in 
contact with the person shed been dealing with, Ms N realised that shed actually been the 
victim of a scam. Ms N contacted her bank, Barclays, on 8 March 2018 to tell them what  had 
happened, and to see if there was anything they could do to help. Barclays contacted  the 
scammers bank  straight away to see if any of Ms Ns money  could be retrieved. After 
several weeks, the scammers bank eventually  confirmed that no money remained from    
Ms Ns transactions.
Barclays acknowledged that it could have done  more to keep Ms N updated about what  was 
happening with her complaint, and so offered to pay her £200 for any upset  caused  to her.
Ms N was unhappy with how Barclays handled things, so she referred her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened, he explained to Ms N that he felt 
Barclays had done all they could to try and recover her money, he also felt that the £200 
Barclays had offered for its failure  to keep Ms N updated was fair in the circumstances, so 
he didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Ms N disagreed with our adjudicator, so her complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  When Ms N 
made the payments, she didnt know she was dealing with a scammer,  so she sent the 
money in good  faith. This means that  at the time  she wanted the payments to go ahead  
and authorised them to be made. And I have  taken that into account  when  deciding  what  is 
fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN82065142But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Ms N when she transferred £1212.50  or whether it should have done  more  than it did. 
Having considered all the information  available to me, I think it was reasonable  for Barclays 
to follow  Ms Ns instruction and I think it acted quickly  to try and get a return of the funds. So, 
I dont think it should refund  Ms N with the £1,212.50. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Both Barclays and Ms N agree that Ms N authorised the transfers herself.  So, Barclays  was 
under an obligation to follow Ms Ns instruction. Having said that, there are certain situations 
in which  I would reasonably expect Barclays to have a closer  look at the circumstances 
surrounding the payment. For example, if it was unusual or out of character for Ms N. 
Ive looked at Ms Ns statements to get an understanding of her normal  account activity.  
Having looked  at these, I dont think the two scam payments were particularly out of 
Ref: DRN82065143character for her. I say this because shed made  bill payments and transfers for similar 
amounts previously. So, on balance I dont think either of the transfers were sufficiently 
suspicious to indicate to Barclays that they werent  legitimate. Ive also listened to Ms Ns 
conversation with Barclays from when she arranged the first payment via telephone banking,  
and there  was nothing in that call that I think should have flagged to Barclays that anything 
untoward might have been  going on. This means  that, in the circumstances, I dont think 
Barclays did anything wrong by following the instructions  Ms N gave and sending the money.
When Ms N told Barclays that she had been scammed, I can see that it acted quickly and 
contacting the scammers bank straightaway  to see if any of Ms Ns money was still in the 
receiving account  and could be retrieved. So I think Barclays did all it could  to try and get the 
funds returned.  Unfortunately,  all of Ms Ns money had been withdrawn from the beneficiary  
account on the same day it was transferred.
I do appreciate that it took quite some time for the receiving bank to get back  to Barclays 
with information  about the funds, and I agree that Barclays  could have done  more to keep 
Ms N updated during  that time. But I think that the £200 Barclays has already offered  to     
Ms N is fair compensation for what happened here. The delays in telling Ms N what was 
going on didnt  affect whether she got her money back, the beneficiary bank has told us that 
all of her money had been withdrawn on the same  day it was received, over a week before 
Ms N realised she had been  scammed and contacted Barclays  for help.
Its unfortunate that Ms N has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience will have 
been very upsetting for her. But in the circumstances,  I dont think I can fairly say that 
Barclays should have  done more to prevent  Ms N losing her money.  I cant  hold Barclays  
responsible for Ms N having fallen victim  to a scam, and I think  they did all they could to help 
her once they knew what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to 
compensate Ms N for her loss. But I do agree it should pay her the £200  in compensation it 
has offered and it should arrange this directly  with Ms N. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8206514