K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Fresh Insurance Services Group Limited unfairly cancelled his 
motor Insurance  policy.
In bringing this complaint Mr G has been  helped by his dad but for ease Ill refer to his dads 
comments as being those of Mr G.
background
Fresh sold Mr G a policy  which is underwritten by an insurer, which  is a separate  business. 
At the same time Mr G took out a telematics  (commonly known as a black  box) policy, for 
which he has a separate agreement  with Fresh. The terms of that policy allow  Fresh  to 
cancel Mr Gs motor policy in certain  circumstances. Fresh  notified Mr G that after three 
speeding events  recorded by his black box it would cancel  his policy. Mr G didn't think  that 
was fair and brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator noted that Mr G had also complained  about  a £10 charge in connection with 
his credit agreement.  The adjudicator said that Mr G would need  to put that complaint to the 
provider of the credit. And our adjudicator didn't  think Fresh had done anything  wrong.  Mr G 
didn't agree so his complaint's been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr G has also complained  about the actions of the insurer but - as 
the insurer is a separate  business  - I don't intend  to deal with those complaints in this 
decision.
Mr G also complained about a £10 charge that was applied in connection with the credit 
agreement Mr G took out to pay for his motor policy. But that credit agreement  is between 
Mr G and the credit provider, which is a different business to Fresh. Mr Gs said that Fresh  
initially told him that it had taken  the £10 payment. But even if it did, it would have done so 
as agent for the credit provider.  So I don't intent to comment further on that issue here and if 
Mr G wishes to pursue this he will need  to complain  to the credit provider. 
Turning to Freshs  decision  to cancel Mr Gs policy. Its shown us the data from Mr Gs black  
box. That shows that on three occasions Mr G went significantly over the speed  limit. Ive 
seen that Fresh sent Mr G warnings  straight after each of the first two speeding  events. After  
the third speeding  event  it notified Mr G that it would  cancel his policy.
Mr Gs policy  says that if he has more  than one speeding warning in a year Fresh  can cancel 
the policy. So it could  have cancelled the policy  after the second speeding event  it warned  
him about. But it didnt do so until the third speeding event.
Mr G initially said that two of the speeding  events happened while  the car was with a 
mechanic. But that cant be the case as only one of the speeding events took place at the 
time Mr G said the car was with a mechanic. Mr G has recently  said that the car was off the 
road and not driven at all when the third speeding  event happened.  But Im not persuaded 
Ref: DRN83614862by that evidence. The telematics data shows the car being driven from Mr Gs home  to what 
appears to be his workplace and back to Mr Gs home again.  The pattern is compelling  that 
Mr G was using his car as usual.  And I havent  seen any evidence, beyond  Mr Gs 
comments, that the black box wasnt  working  accurately at the time. So on balance Im 
persuaded that Mr G was driving the car when  all three speeding events took place. It 
follows that I think Fresh  was entitled to cancel Mr Gs policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8361486