K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
November 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. MYJAR  has said 
that it accepts my provisional  decision. Mr T has provided us with some comments. Although 
I am only summarising here what Mr T has said, I have considered his entire response 
carefully before writing  this decision.
Mr T is naturally disappointed by my provisional  decision,  and the difference in my 
conclusions to those  reached by our adjudicator. He has said that at the time of the loans the 
credit check  performed by MYJAR  would have shown an outstanding County Court 
Judgement, a number  of defaulted accounts and several searches from other payday 
lenders.
Mr T doesnt agree that the checks  MYJAR did were proportionate  as an example he says 
that loan 3 was for more than a third of his entire  salary. He also says that I am wrong to say 
there was a short break between loans 3 and 4  he says that loan 4 was taken only 10 days  
after loan 3 had been repaid. And the over the whole time he was borrowing from MYJAR 
Mr T says his longest time without a loan was just 22 days.
Previously Mr T had asked our Chief Executive why his complaint was taking so long to be 
decided. He wonders if making that request has resulted in his complaint being viewed 
adversely during my review. And he has asked whether his complaint should  be passed  to 
another ombudsman  for a final review.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have reached the 
same conclusions that I expressed  in my provisional decision. But I would like to explain why 
the considered  response that Mr T has provided  to us hasnt changed my decision.
A credit check that a lender undertakes  can take many forms. Generally, the information a 
consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit  file, might be very different to 
that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some  data 
might be missing or anonymised, or the data might  not be up to date. So, this may explain 
any differences between the information  provided  to MYJAR by its credit check  and the 
information Mr T thinks it should have seen.
Ref: DRN89570952There are a number of factors that influence what checks might  be seen as proportionate 
when making a lending decision.  It is true that the size of a loan, and in particular the loan 
size compared  to a consumers income, would be one of those factors.  But there  are many 
other things  that a lender  would need to take into account. Here Mr T was generally repaying 
the loans over a number  of months   so the amount he would need  to repay each  month 
was much smaller  than if hed taken a normal payday loan. And his borrowing and 
repayment behaviour hadnt shown any significant signs  that might suggest  he was facing  
serious problems managing his money.  So I still think  the checks  MYJAR did before 
agreeing the first four loans were proportionate.
By the time of loan 5 Mr T was rapidly approaching  the point at which I think MYJAR  should 
have considered him dependent on its lending. But as I said in my provisional decision 
I dont think that threshold had quite been  crossed. So I still dont think  it would be 
reasonable for me to conclude that MYJAR should  have declined  his loan applications at 
that time.
As has been previously  explained to Mr T, either party to a complaint is entitled  to ask for the 
complaint to be decided by an ombudsman  if they disagree with the recommendation made  
by our adjudicator.  And from time to time an ombudsman  will reach a different conclusion to 
the adjudicators  recommendation.  But an ombudsman deciding a complaint is the final 
stage of our process  and it wouldnt be fair for either  party  to continue to ask for further 
reviews once an ombudsman had reached  a decision. I can however  assure Mr T that him 
asking our Chief Executive for an explanation of why his complaint was taking so long to be 
resolved had absolutely no bearing on the decision I have reached. I entirely  understand 
why Mr T made contact with our Chief Executive and do not consider his actions improper or 
a reason to view his complaint adversely.
I still dont think that MYJAR  was wrong  to give any of the loans to Mr T. It follows that I dont 
think the complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89570953EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mr T was given five loans  by MYJAR between February 2016 and July 2017. The first loan was 
repayable the following month. The remaining loans were repayable in monthly instalments  as shown 
in the table below. Mr T successfully repaid  his first four loans but a balance remained outstanding  on 
his final loan when he made his complaint.  A summary  of his borrowing from MYJAR is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount Scheduled  
Repayments
1 17/02/2016 24/03/2016 £      400 1
2 31/03/2016 11/07/2016 £   1,000 6
3 02/08/2016 03/01/2017 £   1,375 6
4 13/01/2017 13/07/2017 £      750 6
5 13/07/2017 - £   2,000 12
 
Mr Ts complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think  MYJAR had been  
wrong to give the first three loans to Mr T. But she thought that Mr Ts borrowing  history should  have 
led the lender to conclude that it wasnt reasonable to give Mr T the last two loans. So she asked 
MYJAR to pay Mr T some compensation.
MYJAR didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr T could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for a consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN89570954the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish  whether  Mr T 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
MYJAR did some checks before it lent to Mr T. It asked him for details of his income, and his normal 
expenditure. And it checked his credit  file before agreeing  the loans. Ive seen a summary of those 
checks and I dont  think  they showed anything that should  have caused additional concerns  to the 
lender.
I think  that the checks MYJAR did before agreeing the first four loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr T needed  to repay were small  compared with the disposable income hed declared. 
Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ts circumstances at the time, and his 
borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask him for 
the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable  before 
agreeing the first four loans.
Our adjudicator thought that the pattern  of Mr Ts borrowing  in the lead up to loan 4 should have 
caused MYJAR to decide it was unlikely  that Mr T would  be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable 
manner. But I dont agree.  Whilst it is true that Mr Ts borrowing pattern  should have started to cause 
some concerns to the lender,  I dont think those concerns would have been enough at that time to 
mean the loan shouldnt have been given. There had been  a short  gap between  loan 3 being  repaid 
and loan 4 being taken. And the amount that Mr T asked to borrow  on loan 4 was significantly less 
than the loan hed repaid a couple of weeks earlier.
I think,  by the time Mr T asked for loan 5, that MYJAR should have realised that it couldnt safely rely 
on the information he was providing about his finances. This was now Mr Ts fifth loan and hed been 
borrowing with little break for some time. The amount  Mr T was asking to borrow had also increased  
significantly although he was now taking the loan over an extended repayment period so his monthly  
repayments were actually  lower than those hed made on loan 2. I think MYJAR should  have taken  
steps at that time to independently verify  Mr Ts true financial position. 
Mr T has provided us with copies of his bank statements and his credit file so I can determine  what  
better checks might have shown to MYJAR at that time. I can see that Mr T was borrowing from 
another short  term lender  at the same time  in fact hed taken three instalment loans with that lender 
in the previous couple  of months  and each of those loans was still active at the time he asked for loan 
5. But he had declared a significant amount of disposable income so I dont think  MYJAR should have 
been concerned that he wouldnt be able to afford to repay those  loans at the same time as his 
borrowing on loan 5. And his bank statements dont appear to show any other forms of significant 
Ref: DRN89570955financial distress that I think might have  suggested  to MYJAR that Mr T was having serious problems  
managing his money.
Ive also considered Mr Ts overall lending pattern with MYJAR at this point  our adjudicator  again 
thought that this should  have  suggested to MYJAR that Mr T had become  reliant on its lending.  But 
again I dont agree. Whilst it is true that Mr T had been borrowing from MYJAR for some time,  I dont 
think the time he had been indebted to the lender had reached the point at which MYJAR should have 
concluded he was dependent on its lending.  I have to say that I think  that point was rapidly 
approaching, and I would have had no hesitation in saying that any further loans shouldnt have been 
given. But on balance I havent seen enough to make me think that MYJAR was wrong to give loan 5 
to Mr T.
So I dont currently think MYJAR was wrong  to give any of the loans to Mr T. It follows  that I dont 
think the complaint  should be upheld.
Ref: DRN8957095