K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mrs B says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs B says that she was unaware that PPI had been added  to her account,  and it 
mustve been added without her consent.  She says she wouldve declined  this type of 
cover. But I think Capital One made  it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this as 
it was so long ago. I say this because Capital One has been able to provide a copy of 
Mrs B credit card application,  which  she completed through the post.  On this, I can see 
that the PPI is presented as optional   and the choices to decline or select the policy  are 
equally prominent. The PPI has been selected   and Mrs B has then gone on to sign the 
application form, agreeing to the information on it. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Capital  One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mrs 
B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
Ref: DRN89907362The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Mrs B is subject  to an IVA agreement  she may need to speak to her insolvency practitioner 
about the compensation shes received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019. 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8990736