K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to reject a claim 
and cancel his car insurance policy as if it didnt exist. Mr C is being  represented  by a 
solicitor in his complaint.  
background
In October  2017 Mr C bought a car insurance  policy with Admiral.  In March 2018  his car was 
stolen and so he made  a claim. While investigating, Admiral discovered that Mr Cs car had 
been modified  before  he bought it. Mr C hadnt  told Admiral about  the modifications  when  he 
called Admiral to insure the car. It said if it had known  about  them,  Admiral  wouldnt have 
offered Mr C insurance. So Admiral rejected Mr Cs claim as it cancelled his policy  as if it 
didnt exist  also known as avoidance. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted  reasonably. Mr Cs representative doesnt agree. 
So theyd like an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered or its terms. And we check  
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If not, 
we consider whether they did so deliberately,  recklessly or carelessly. Admiral said Mr C 
carelessly misrepresented the facts when he bought his policy.  It has placed reliance on the 
terms of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and I 
have taken account of the Act.
Mr C called Admiral to insure his car in October  2017. Admiral told Mr C it couldnt  insure  his 
car as it was showing as a light commercial vehicle. Mr C told Admiral this wasnt  correct 
and that it had been incorrectly  registered  as such  but the correct  car was a standard 
version of the model. 
Mr Cs solicitor says that Mr C only referred to the registration and model of the car when he 
said it was a standard model. They said he wasnt referring to the modifications.  They  said 
that Admiral only said that the policy might be avoided if it was later found that the vehicle 
was a light commercial vehicle as Admiral  couldnt  insure that. 
The agent  asked  Mr C if his car had any modifications. Mr C said no  but then said the car 
had a roof rack. Admiral  was able to insure  the standard version of Mr Cs car with the 
modification of a roof rack. 
When Admiral  received the purchase invoice for the car following the theft,  it discovered  that 
in addition to the roof rack, there  were  over 20 other modifications listed  on the purchase 
invoice, of which several were described as bespoke and included an engine upgrade, body 
kits, alloy wheels and satnav The purchase invoice was dated  less than a month before 
Mr C called Admiral to buy the policy. 
Ref: DRN86757722So I think Mr C was reasonably aware  when he answered Admirals question  about 
modifications  given the time lapse  that his car had been modified extensively. Mr C said 
he wrongly assumed  he only needed to tell Admiral  about the roof rack as the other 
modifications already  existed on the car. But Admiral  asked  Mr C if his car had any 
modifications. So I think Admirals question was clear but Mr C didnt take reasonable care 
when he answered  it. I therefore think its decision to avoid Mr Cs policy for careless 
misrepresentation was fair and reasonable. 
One of the modifications was to the engine power.  The garage which Mr C bought  the car 
from provided a letter  after the theft to say it didnt upgrade  the engine.  Admiral didnt accept 
this as suitable evidence - as the purchase  invoice clearly listed it as a modification which 
Mr C paid for. Mr Cs solicitor has asked what further evidence  we need as its provided 
evidence the engine wasnt upgraded. The car was stolen and not recovered, so its 
impossible to check whether the engine was upgraded or not. So I think  Admirals  decision 
to disregard the letter and place more weight on the purchase invoice as evidence  that the 
engine was upgraded, which Mr C paid for in September 2017, was reasonable. 
Admirals policy describes modifications as: 
Any changes to your cars standard specification, including accessories and 
additional parts; optional  extras and after market alterations, trade  related changes  
and parts. These  include, but are not restricted to, cosmetic and/or performance  
changes or changes related to your business or profession.
Mr Cs policy  schedule reads  the following underneath the modifications section: 
anything which changes  the makers standard specification or alters its performance, 
including alloy wheels,  body  kits, or any non standard parts.  If you have any queries, 
please call us.
So I think Admiral gave  Mr C a further opportunity to contact Admiral when he received his 
policy documents to tell it about the modifications to his car. But he didnt. Admiral explained 
that if any of the information Mr C gave was incorrect, he may not have the protection  of the 
policy.
Where the misrepresentation has been careless  rather than deliberate or reckless  but the 
insurer would have  otherwise provided  cover at a higher premium - an insurer should 
provide cover and either charge a higher premium and/or reduce the amount of the claim 
proportionately to the premium already paid. But where an insurer wouldnt have offered a 
policy, the insurer may cancel the policy as if it didnt exist.  But it should  provide a refund of 
premium to the customer  if it hasnt  already  met a claim. 
An insurers  underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive and so Admiral  doesnt have to 
share it with customers.  But we can ask an insurer to provide evidence  to us so that we can 
check its applied its criteria correctly and treated its customer fairly. Admiral has provided 
underwriting evidence to show  that it wouldnt have offered  Mr C a policy if hed told it about  
the modifications to his car.
I understand Mr C and his representative  will be disappointed with my decision But based on 
everything Ive seen, I think Admirals decision to cancel  the policy as if it didnt exist was 
reasonable and in line with CIDRA.  This means I dont think it should meet  Mr Cs theft 
claim. 
Ref: DRN86757723my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, save  for Admiral to refund the premium 
if it hasnt already done so and pay interest  at a simple rate of 8% a year from the date of its 
cancellation decision to the date it pays the refund to Mr C. 
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Cs 
representative on behalf of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8675772