K820x#14Complaint
Mr L complains  that Guy Salmon Limited  misled him about the impact of car finance on his 
credit rating. 
Background
In February 2018  Mr L acquired a car funded by a personal contract  purchase  (PCP) 
agreement. He says he informed the salesman that he was planning to buy two rental 
properties and was told that the PCP would not affect his credit rating. He says that 
subsequently his applications  for mortgages were  rejected due to his much reduced credit  
rating. He says this was due to the PCP being recorded on his credit file and also to a 
secondary negative  marker on his file which he later had removed. 
He says the purchase of one property was delayed by some two months  and he lost rent for 
that period. He had to use some of his cash to buy the car and he had to defer the purchase  
of the second  property  by six months  losing  yet more potential rental income. He says that 
he also incurred increased legal fees due to the situation.
Mr L sought to have the problem resolved shorty  after taking out the PCP agreement, but 
Guy Salmon wasnt able to assist and he used  cash to reduce or clear the PCP so that his 
credit rating improved and he was able to obtain the finance for the properties. 
Mr L complained to the business and it accepted that the salesman had made an error. It 
concluded that he commented  on the likely impact of the PCP on Mr Ls credit rating without 
being qualified  to do so. However,  it concluded  that the sale of the PCP was carried  out 
correctly. The business didnt consider it was liable for the potential  additional costs Mr L 
may have  incurred as a result of the impact on his property purchases. It offered to buy back  
the car, but Mr L would  be responsible for any loss which arose. It also offered  him £250 for 
the incorrect information he had been given. 
Mr L rejected this offer and brought his complaint  to this service where it was considered by 
one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  He noted the credit reports  
submitted by Mr L which showed a drop in his rating  after the agreement as taken out. He 
said there were two causes one of which was a defaulted account  which Mr L had said he 
was arranging to be corrected, but hadnt  been updated in the later report. 
He asked Mr L for evidence from the lender as to why it had rejected his application, but this 
hadnt been provided and so he didnt think he could conclude  that the information  given by 
the salesman  was the sole cause for the failed  loan application.
He said that he would  have suggested  that the PCP agreement be unwound, but it had 
already been settled  and so he didnt believe any further action was required  by 
Guy Salmon. Mr L didnt  agree  and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have every sympathy with Mr L I dont consider  I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
Ref: DRN86965542I have seen no evidence  to support Mr Ls claim that the mortgage lender rejected his 
application because  of the PCP agreement.  While this may have been the case I find it 
difficult to reach that conclusion without some supporting evidence. Mr Ls credit file had an 
adverse marking and while this may have been  erroneous it was on his file and would have  
been seen by any potential lender. 
Lenders have a variety  of criteria and make a wide range of checks  before lending  and an 
applicants credit file is only one piece of data which is used in the decision making process. 
I have taken into account Mr Ls subsequent later successful applications. But I dont 
consider this allows me to conclude that the earlier failure was due alone to the information  
given to him by the salesman. 
I can appreciate that not having the PCP on his credit file was seen as advantageous to 
Mr L, but it is not clear  why he relied  on the advice of the car salesman alone. I would have 
thought that for such an important matter that he would have double checked  the likely 
impact of the agreement  into which he was entering.  That is not to understate  the error made 
by the salesman, who wasnt qualified to comment on the reporting of the PCP to the credit 
reference agencies.  
Mr L says that his losses were over £20,000,  though these have been calculated  on lost rent 
without taking into account any costs such as mortgage payments. While his rental income 
stream may have been delayed his running  costs would also have  been  delayed. Nor have I 
seen any evidence of his additional  legal costs.  
In conclusion while I agree the salesmen gave information he wasnt  qualified  to give I dont 
consider I can hold the business liable for Mr Ls failure to obtain either mortgage at the 
initial attempt.
My final decision
Guy Salmon Limited has already made  an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Guy Salmon Limited 
should pay £250. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 12 March  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8696554