K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss P says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Ps signed credit  agreement. On it is a section related to PPI 
where the box opting for the policy has a printed tick in it. As this sale took place in a 
meeting, I think its likely  this selection  came  about as a result of a conversation  between  
Miss P and a Halifax adviser  where  PPI was discussed. There is nothing on the 
application to suggest the PPI was compulsory. And Miss P has signed the form  so I 
think its likely to reflect what she wanted. On balance  I think its likely that Halifax  made  
it clear that Miss P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although 
I can understand why she cant remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss P so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Miss P says she wouldve received some sick pay at the time the policy  was sold.  But 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she wouldve  received  and for up 
to 12 months if she was unable to work  because of accident or sickness.  It also wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months if she lost her job. So I think  she wouldve found the policy 
useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss P has said. But these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss P paid for it. But it appears Halifax has already paid Miss P back  some  of the cost of 
the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN83656892my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83656893
Ref: DRN8365689