K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which  
Mrs D signed.  On this I can see there  was a box for the PPI, which  has a pre-printed 
cross in it to take out the PPI. The form also has other pre-printed information on it, such 
as Mrs Ds employment  details and income.  Ive thought carefully  about  what Mrs D has 
said about  her not being given a choice, but I just dont  think theres  enough evidence  to 
say this is what most likely happened. Instead I think  that this policy  was sold to Mrs D 
during a meeting and that the cross in the box for PPI reflected a discussion Mrs D and 
the adviser had before  the form was finalised  and that the form was printed to reflect 
what they had discussed. So overall I think its most likely that Bank of Scotland made  it 
clear that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant  remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs D so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems  to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve  been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs D has said. But for the reasons explained  above,  these 
points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mrs D paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already  offered to give Mrs D back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mrs D now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN84086252my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8408625