K820x#14complaint
Ms H has complained about her home insurer  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) 
because whilst it accepted her claim made after a water leak,  settlement was made in cash  
and she wasnt paid enough to restore the property to the condition  it was in before.
background
There was a leak from the property above  Ms Hs. One of the ceilings of Ms Hs property, 
along with the wall coverings were affected. RSA asked Ms H to get estimates for repair and 
she sent it these  on 23 October 2018. They were in excess of £3,000 and didnt contain any 
price breakdown to explain  the cost of each  element  of the work. 
On the same  day RSA told Ms H that the repair would  only cost it £2,123.30  to complete, so 
thats what it would pay. Ms H felt this was insufficient, that in particular RSA had allowed for 
coving to be replaced, when what she had was original Victorian cornicing (which can be 
costly to replicate).
RSA agreed to review  its figures and did offer a small increase  based on what it felt it 
would cost it to provide  cornicing. Ms H was still not convinced the settlement was fair and 
on 24 October 2018 told RSA she was going ahead the next day with the work as she 
needed to use the room.  She asked if it could  pay her less the cost of the cornicing, so they 
could debate this at a later date, so the other repairs wouldnt be delayed (with the 
coving/cornicing being the last stage of the reinstatement work).
Over the next week, whilst the parties continued  corresponding, Ms H had the work done  
and on 5 November  2018 sent her invoices to RSA  which detailed the work done as 
having included  replacement coving; £2,100 for the work, plus £239.83 for wallpaper. Ms Hs 
cost for electricity used  to dry the property was accepted as £61.67. RSA said it would settle  
the claim based on Ms Hs invoices  and electricity usage. It said it would pay her £2,301.50 
minus the £350  policy excess.
Ms H complained to us because she was unhappy that her room  now was finished with 
coving, instead  of the original cornicing. Shed  complained to RSA about this but felt its 
response had ignored her point. RSA had said that as Ms H hadnt  had an extra  cost for 
reinstating cornicing,  and it had settled the claim based on her invoices, there  was nothing 
more for it to pay. Ms H said this ignored  the issue that she didnt have a cost for cornicing 
because RSA hadnt offered enough to allow  her to reinstate this and so shed had to put 
modern coving in place instead.  
Our investigator noted that RSAs initial offer of settlement should  have  been  based on 
Ms Hs cost to repair, not what  it would  have cost it. However, he noted that RSA had 
changed its approach when Ms H provided  her invoices.  He understood why Ms H hadnt 
had a cost for reinstating cornicing, but because shed had no financial loss, he didnt feel he 
could reasonably require RSA to pay an increased  claim settlement to her. He didnt think 
the room now having coving was RSAs fault.  Ms H remained dissatisfied commenting  that 
RSA hadnt complied with her policy  to reinstate the property like it was before.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN81255392I appreciate that Ms H feels let down by RSA.  Because it was looking to settle in cash, it 
should always have  based its settlement on what it would cost Ms H to complete  the work. 
But that doesnt mean it should just have accepted her initial  estimates without question.  It 
was entitled to question those costs  and seek to verify whether or not they were  reasonable. 
Now the work has been done, and RSA has settled based on the cost of the invoices Ms H 
presented, I cant reasonably require RSA to review  what it has paid. I know Ms H feels 
shes in the position of having a room with coving instead of cornicing because of RSAs 
original unfair offer. But it was Ms H's decision to press on with the works  even  before  RSA 
made any settlement  to her. 
Whilst I appreciate that Ms H says she compromised on putting  coving in place instead of 
cornicing because of RSAs unfair offer,  Im not persuaded that the offer left Ms H with no 
choice but to move ahead in this manner. Once the ceiling and walls were reinstated the 
room could have  been used (and as I said above, RSAs  offer didnt prevent Ms H from 
doing this). In my view installation of coving/cornicing isnt so vital as to justify  moving  on 
with repairs instead  of placing that part of the work on hold whilst progressing a complaint  
about the cost of such work first. I think Ms H could reasonably have chosen, as she herself 
suggested at one stage, to halt that finishing off work whilst the debate over costs was 
resolved. If shed then presented an estimate  showing  that reinstating  cornicing would cost 
more than RSAs  initial settlement  had allowed for, but it had refused to increase its 
settlement, Id likely  have made it do so. But I cant reasonably require it to pay more  now for 
a financial loss which Ms H hasnt incurred.
I accept that Ms H may be unhappy with the room as it is now.  But Im not minded to say 
RSA should pay compensation in this instance because, as explained above, it was Ms Hs 
choice to proceed with coving  instead of cornicing. As such,  I cant  fairly or reasonably 
require RSA to pay compensation to Ms H.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.   I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8125539