K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that CIGNA Europe  Insurance Company SA-NV (Cigna) declined her travel 
insurance claim. My references to Cigna include its agents.
Ms W is represented  in her complaint by her son.
background
Ms W bought annual multi-trip travel insurance on-line. Cigna is the policy  insurer and 
responsible for claims. She bought  the policy on 8 December 2017.  The policy cover started 
29 December 2017 which was the date of Ms Ws trip.
On 14 December Ms W became unwell.  On 27 December her daughter phoned Cigna to 
discuss a potential claim for cancellation, which  was the date Ms Ws condition  was 
diagnosed as pneumonia. Cigna couldnt  find the policy  on its system but set up a manual 
claim and explained  the information  Ms W would need to provide in support of a cancellation 
claim.
Unfortunately on 29 December Ms W was too ill to travel. She claimed  for cancellation.
Cigna declined Ms Ws claim. It said there was no cancellation cover for the claim as the 
medical condition  that caused the cancellation  started before the policy cover began. It 
offered £100 for Ms Ws inconvenience  as it didnt verify the policy start date at the outset 
and sent out a claim form which  Ms W had completed. Cigna also told Ms W it wasnt 
responsible for the sale of the policy.
Ms W complained to us. In summary  she said: the policy sales information was misleading; 
the policy wording  wasnt clear she wasnt covered; Cigna gave poor service and didnt tell 
her in the 27 December  call that cover didnt begin until 29 December; she was unfit to travel 
on the date cover started. She wants Cigna to pay the claim.
Our adjudicator explained why she thought Cigna had fairly declined  the claim. 
Ms W disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. As requested we sent a recording of 
the 27 December  call to her son. We havent received any further  comments from Ms W.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms W as I can see she was very unwell and didnt want to miss her 
holiday. I dont  uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Many of Ms Ws comments are about the sale of the policy. Cigna isnt responsible for the 
sale of the policy and our adjudicator has given Ms W contact details of the relevant 
business to contact if Ms W wishes to make  a mis-sale complaint.
My decision  is about whether Cigna fairly  and reasonably declined the claim.
The policy says:
Ref: DRN85751932Period of insurance
Annual multi-trip policies
Cancellation cover  under this policy begins  from the start date of the period of insurance 
shown on your policy Schedule or the date of booking each trip (whichever  is later)  and ends 
at the beginning of each  trip.
The key facts (policy summary) document says:
Duration of cover
This policy is effective for one year from the cover start date shown on your policy  Schedule.
Ms Ws policy schedule clearly  says the policy period  of cover is 29 December 2017 to
28 December 2018.
So all the policy documents are clear that cover  under Ms Ws policy  started on 
29 December 2017. Shes said she didnt get all the policy  documents  and thats a matter 
she may want to raise as part of her mis-sale complaint.
Ms Ws referred  to policy wording under the medical  declaration section, which  she says  
means shes covered  for cancellation  as she did tell Cigna about her ill health as soon as 
she could. But the important point is there was no cover until 29 December so it makes no 
difference that she told Cigna as soon as she could.
Ms W wasnt well enough  to travel on 29 December, the day her cover started .But even if 
shed waited until that date to first tell Cigna about  her illness  it could have still declined  the 
claim as the illness  that caused the cancellation started before the date Ms Ws policy  cover  
began.
Ive listened to the 27 December call Ms Ws daughter made to Cigna. It took the policy  
number and said it couldnt find the policy which we now know  was because the policy  
hadnt started.  Cigna  acted reasonably in manually setting up notification  of a potential  claim.
At that point, I think it would have been  reasonable for Cigna to ask Ms Ws daughter  if she 
knew when the policy started. If it had asked it might  have been able to tell her straight  away  
that the claim wasnt covered. 
However, I dont think Cigna disadvantaged  Ms W by not asking the question.  If Ms W didnt 
have the policy schedule she wouldnt have confirmation of the cover  start date. But even if 
she could have told Cigna I dont think it's probable that Ms W would have been able to 
make alternative arrangements to reduce her loss as it was only two days  before  her trip 
started.
Overall Cigna acted  fairly and reasonably  in declining  Ms Ws claim.
Cigna offered Ms W £100 for her distress and inconvenience at its poor service  not telling 
her the claim  wasn't covered on 27 December (although  as Ive said above it may not have 
been able to) and sending  her claim documents which she completed.  I think  thats a 
reasonable amount for any unnecessary  inconvenience it caused. 
Ref: DRN85751933my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8575193