K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Gain Credit  LLC, trading  as Lending Stream,  lent to her in an
irresponsible manner.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 20 December 
2019, an extract of which is attached  and forms part of this final decision. So, I wont  repeat 
that information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that Lending Stream shouldnt have 
given Ms M loan one. I set out what I intended  to direct it to do to put matters  right.   
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss M said that she didnt fully understand why some of the loans were  considered  
acceptable.
Lending Stream accepted my provisional decision.  It said that loans  four and five are still 
outstanding with it and it would deduct  the redress for loan one from the amounts Ms M still 
owed in relation  to loans four and five. That would leave a balance  still outstanding. 
Lending Stream said that it was willing to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms M.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To answer  Ms Ms query, I dont think that Lending Stream  should have given her loan one 
because proportionate checks would likely have shown that she couldnt repay it in a 
sustainable way. 
There was a considerable gap between Ms M repaying loan one and taking out loan two. So, 
when Ms M asked Lending Stream  for loan two, it was entitled to treat her as a new 
borrower. At that point, there wasnt anything in the information  Ms M provided or the 
information Lending Stream shouldve been  aware of that meant that Lending  Stream  should 
have done more than it did before lending to Ms M. So, I dont think that Lending Stream  
was wrong to give Ms M loans two to five. 
Lending Stream says that loans four and five are still outstanding  with it. As I said in my 
provisional decision, its reasonable for Lending  Stream to apply the redress  in relation to 
loan one to the amounts Ms M owes in relation to loans four and five. It has confirmed that 
will still leave  an outstanding balance, in relation to which it was willing to agree an 
affordable repayment  plan.  
Having considered everything  again, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think that 
Lending Stream should have given Ms M loan one. 
Ref: DRN80097942putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
To put things right, I require Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream  to:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Ms M paid on loan one.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Ms Ms credit file in relation to loan one.
The refunded amount  may be applied to repay  what Ms M owes  to Lending Stream in 
relation to loans  four and five. Lending Stream should agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Ms M in relation to the remaining balance outstanding. 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  Lending
Stream must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint in part. I now require Gain Credit LLC,  
trading as Lending Stream, to take the steps  set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80097943extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Ms M complains that Gain Credit  LLC, trading  as Lending Stream,  lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Ms M took out five loans  with Lending  Stream between June 2015  and October  2018. The 
loans were for between £100  and £350  and repayable in six, monthly instalments. Ms M 
repaid loans one to three but didnt repay loans four and five. A summary of Ms Ms 
borrowing from Lending Stream  is as follows:
Ms M says that she couldnt afford  to repay these loans. She wants a refund of interest.
One of our adjudicators  assessed Ms Ms complaint.  He didnt think  that Lending Stream  
was wrong to lend to Ms M.
Ms M didnt agree with the adjudicator.  She said that Lending Stream  had now sent her 
outstanding debt to a third party debt collector who wanted full repayment. Ms M said she 
couldnt afford to do that as she was in financial difficulty. She is worried about her credit  file 
and wants adverse information removed.  She asked  whether we would consider the 
outstanding balance and any further  interest.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, an
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  
to make sure Ms M could  repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number  of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending  relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ref: DRN80097944But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish  that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors  include:
    the lower  a customers  income  (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher  repayment from a particular  level of income);
    the greater  the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period 
of time during  which a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether  Ms M could sustainably repay her loans 
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable  on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  This is because  the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) defines sustainable  as being without undue difficulties and in particular the 
customer should be able to make  repayments on time, while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows  
that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Theres a gap of over two and a half years  between Ms M repaying loan one and taking 
out loan two. I think that gap is such that Lending  Stream was entitled  to treat Ms M as a 
new borrower when  she asked for loan two. So, Im looking  at two chains of lending here: 
loan one and loans two to five.
For loan one, I think Lending Stream shouldve taken steps to build a more  detailed picture 
of Ms Ms financial situation.  I say that because its credit check showed that Ms M had a 
number of defaults and delinquent accounts.  The information a prospective lender can see 
from a credit check isnt in the same detail as Ms M can see from her own credit report. But 
I think the results of Lending Streams credit  check indicated that Ms M might be having 
problems managing her money at that stage. So, in the circumstances, proportionate 
checks would include verifying what Ms M said about her financial position.
I think that if Lending Stream had carried out proportionate checks  before loan one, it 
would likely  have seen,  as I have, that Ms M already had three outstanding short-term  
loans. Lending  Stream should have concluded that it was unlikely that Ms M could repay  
further borrowing  in a sustainable  way. I dont think that Lending Stream should have given 
Ms M loan one.
Ref: DRN80097945For the second chain of lending - loans  two to five - given the repayment amounts, what  
was apparent about Ms Ms circumstances at the time and her history with the lender,  I 
dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for Lending Stream ask Ms M for the amount of 
information needed to show  the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the 
information Ms M provided or the information  Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate  for it to start verifying what Ms M said before 
loans two to five.
Lending Stream gave  Ms M loans five before shed repaid loan four. But, in the particular 
circumstances here,  I dont think that it was wrong to do so. Thats because Ms Ms 
repayments for loan four were up to date when Lending Stream gave her loan five. Based 
on the information Lending  Stream had, it appeared that she could  pay the combined 
repayments for loans four and five.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Ms Ms lending history with Lending Stream, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Lending  Stream should reasonably have seen 
that further  lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and shouldnt have provided 
any further loans.  Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ms case, I dont think that this 
point was reached here. I dont think that the pattern of lending,  in itself, should  have 
indicated to Lending Stream that the lending was unsustainable.
Considering everything, I dont think that Lending Stream should have given Ms M loan 
one but I dont think that it was wrong to give her loans two to five.
I intend to uphold  Ms Ms complaint in part. To put things right, I intend  to direct Gain Credit
LLC, trading as Lending Stream  to:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Ms M paid on loan one.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Ms Ms credit file in relation to loan one.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  Lending
Stream must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Ms M didnt fully repay  the later loans and the outstanding debts have now been sold to third
party debt collection companies.  I dont know whether Ms M has repaid any of those debts 
to the debt collection companies.
It seems reasonable that if Ms M still owes some of the capital she borrowed on the later 
loans, the refund due to her should  be used to repay that debt. But to do so, Lending 
Stream must first take the debts back into its own books. Once it has recovered what  Ms M 
owes, any remaining compensation should  be paid directly to Ms M. If there remains  a 
balance outstanding, Lending  Stream is under a duty to treat Ms M sympathetically and 
positively.
Ref: DRN80097946If Lending Stream  is unable, or unwilling, to repurchase the debts within  four weeks of 
Ms M accepting my decision, it must  pay the refund directly to Ms M, so she can choose 
whether to use the compensation  to settle  her debts directly.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Ms Ms complaint in part. I intend  to direct
Gain Credit LLC,  trading as Lending  Stream, to take the steps Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN8009794