K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that The Tavistock  Partnership  Limited (TPL) has taken an annual servicing fee 
without his agreement. He says that he cancelled his agreement to that fee some years  earlier.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
March 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision,  so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. TPL has said that it 
agrees with my provisional decision. Mr J has provided us with some further comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what Mr J has said, I have considered  his entire  
response carefully before writing this decision.
Mr J has said that some health problems he faced in 2007 have left him with permanent 
cognitive difficulties.  He says the advisor  was aware  of this and usually made allowances  for 
the difficulties  he faced. He is therefore  surprised that the advisor didnt get in touch with him 
in 2012 when he didnt receive  the expected notification to stop the advice service. And Mr J 
says that, given the length of the annual statements he received, he hadnt noticed the 
advice charges detailed on the final page.  And although the letters  he received from TPL did 
say "It is now time for your annual review in relation to your pension.  As you have  elected  to 
pay for our ongoing servicing.", he presumed  that this related to the ad hoc servicing  basis  
that he thought  he had signed up for in January 2013.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I still dont think  it 
should be upheld,  but would like to comment on the specific points that Mr J has raised in his 
response.
As I explained in my provisional decision TPL only became  responsible for the actions of the 
firm of advisors dealing  with Mr J in 2015. So in this decision I cannot consider whether  
something went wrong before then  and in particular whether the firm should  have done 
more when it didnt  receive a response  from Mr J about whether or not he wished to cancel 
the ongoing advice service.
In my provisional decision I accepted that Mr J might not have read his annual  statements in 
sufficient detail to have seen the advisor  charges that were  clearly shown. But I dont agree 
that it would  have been reasonable to interpret the first lines of the annual  letters  TPL sent 
him as referring to an ad-hoc  servicing arrangement. I think  the meaning of those letters was 
clear  namely that Mr J was paying  for a service on an ongoing basis,  and that service  
included annual reviews  of his financial arrangements.
So looking  at the whole  situation I dont  think  it would be reasonable for me to conclude  that 
TPL should have known that Mr J no longer wanted  the ongoing advice service  those 
discussions took place  before TPL became involved with Mr Js firm of advisors. I think that 
the information Mr J received from TPL, and his pension provider, made  it clear  that he was 
Ref: DRN87083362continuing to pay an annual adviser  fee. And if Mr J no longer wanted that service I think  he 
could have enquired further with TPL why the charges were still being  levied.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against The Tavistock Partnership Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87083363EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr J complains that The Tavistock Partnership Limited (TPL) has taken  an annual servicing  fee without  
his agreement.  He says that he cancelled his agreement to that fee some years earlier.
background
Mr J appears to have had a long-standing relationship with a firm of financial advisers I will call C. 
Mr J paid an ongoing charge for services from that firm that by way of a deduction  from the monies  he 
had invested in a pension. That firm became an appointed representative of TPL in February 2015 
when TPL purchased the company that C had previously represented. As part of that purchase TPL 
agreed to take some limited responsibility  for past errors, but those didnt include the matter that Mr J 
is now complaining about. I understand  that the company previously represented  by C, and so 
responsible for matters up until February 2015, is now in administration. So any complaint about what 
happened before February 2015 would need to be considered by the Financial  Services 
Compensation Scheme  (FSCS).
In 2017 C was taken over by another firm that I will call G. G remained an appointed representative  of 
TPL. But for simplicity  I will generally  refer to the responsible business, after February 2015,  as being  
TPL rather  than the advisor firms.
Mr J says that he asked C to stop providing  its ongoing servicing to him in late 2012. He says that he 
sent a letter making that request and has provided  us with a copy. C says that it didnt receive  that 
instruction and so continued to levy its annual  charges. But since the cancellation  request happened 
before C became an appointed representative of TPL it wont be something for me to consider  in this 
decision.
TPL says that since 2015 it has sent Mr J an annual  letter reminding him that he was paying for an 
ongoing servicing  arrangement.  The letters invited Mr J to get in touch to arrange his annual review,  
or indicate that he didnt think a review was needed. It doesnt appear that Mr J responded to those  
letters. TPL also says that Mr J has been sent regular  statements from his pension provider. It says 
that those  statements clearly showed that Mr J was paying an annual charge to his advisor.  
Mr Js complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Although our adjudicator also 
considered what had happened  in 2012, he didnt think TPL had done anything  wrong. Although  he 
couldnt explain why Mr Js request for the servicing  to end had not been received, he thought that the 
annual review letters  and statements from the pension  provider should have been sufficient  to make 
Mr J aware that the charge  was still being  levied. So he didnt recommend that the complaint should 
be upheld.
Mr J didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt  been resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
At I have said earlier, this decision will only be dealing  with what has happened since February 2015. 
So, to be clear,  I wont be considering whether or not Mr J gave C adequate notice that he wanted to 
end the ongoing servicing arrangement and stop paying the required  fees. I will simply be looking  at 
whether it was reasonable for TPL to continue  to charge those  fees from 2015 onwards.
Ref: DRN87083364Of course in doing that I need  to create something of an artificial environment.  Although the firm that C 
acted as an appointed  representative for changed in 2015, Mr Js relationship with C remained 
unchanged. So what had gone before might be considered to have had an influence on what happened  
after February 2015. But Im also mindful that over two years had passed since Mr J had indicated that 
he wished to end the ongoing servicing  arrangement. I think that period of time, with no additional 
request, is too long for me to take the original request into consideration when assessing whether  TPL 
has done something wrong.
I can see that TPL sent a letter to Mr J each year  the letters were sent in November or December. 
The letters were sent to the same address that we hold for Mr J so Ive got no reason to think that 
they werent received. The letters followed a similar  format. In the second sentence of the letter they 
reminded Mr J that he had elected to pay for ongoing servicing and offered him the opportunity  to 
have a face to face review meeting. Mr J was asked to return  a form confirming whether he wanted a 
meeting, or that his circumstances  hadnt changed  and he was happy  to forego  the meeting. I havent 
seen anything  to suggest  that Mr J returned any of these letters.
Although Mr J didnt return the letters,  as Ive said earlier,  I dont think that means  they werent 
delivered to him. But in terms of best practice I think it would have been helpful for TPL to ensure that 
it had a formal  record of Mr J declining  the meeting  rather than relying on his lack of response. But in 
saying that I am not concluding that TPLs actions were such that Mr J can reasonably claim he was 
unaware that TPL still considered it was providing  an ongoing service to him.
I have also seen  that, in April each year, Mr Js pension provider wrote  to him providing an annual 
statement of his investment.  These  letters  were also sent to the same address that we hold for Mr J 
so Ive got no reason to think that they werent  received either. And although I accept those  
statements ran to a number of pages, and so might not have been reviewed in their entirety by Mr J, 
they did clearly show the annual charge  that was being paid to Mr Js adviser.  
So looking  at the whole situation I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude that TPL 
should have known that Mr J no longer wanted  the ongoing  advice service. I think that the information 
Mr J received from TPL, and his pension  provider, made it clear that he was continuing to pay an 
annual adviser fee. And if Mr J no longer wanted that service I think he could  have enquired  further 
with TPL why the charges  were still being  levied.
Ref: DRN8708336