K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs E bought the policy  in 1996 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Due to 
the time that has passed, HSBC cant confirm  how Mr and Mrs E applied for their mortgage  
and PPI policy. However, Mr and Mrs E say they applied for the PPI policy  during a meeting 
in branch. So Ive considered this complaint on this basis.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr E for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £250 a month towards Mr and Mrs Es 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £14.85 a month. 
At the time,  Mr E was employed as a chauffeur. He has told us he was entitled  to at least  six 
months full sick pay from his employer as well as redundancy pay and death in service 
benefit. Mr E has said he had a medical  condition at the time of the sale.  
HSBC has sent us screenshots and information  to show  that the mortgage account closed 
before April 2008. 
Mr and Mrs Es representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Es representative  says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs E 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and     
Mrs Es representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr and Mrs E about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs E and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN83770712The information Mr and Mrs E received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs E disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  before April 2008. That means the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN83770713I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs E with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs E, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs E 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs E 
and HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs E know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN83770714HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
PPI was an optional  product.  Given the length of time since the sale, HSBC understandably  
have no documentation  available from the time of the sale to show  how PPI was presented  
to Mr and Mrs E. So I cant  hold this against HSBC. And I dont have sufficient evidence from 
the consumers  to be able to conclude  that HSBC didnt present the policy as optional.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs E knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Mr and Mrs E say advice was provided during  this sale. HSBC  cant confirm whether  this 
was an advised  sale or not. Given that I have  considered that the PPI was sold during a 
meeting and that it was in the context of a mortgage where HSBC would have had 
information about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances,  I think its more  likely that HSBC  provided 
advice during the sale. 
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr and Mrs E with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs E. It seems Mr and Mrs E cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Es financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr E would have been caught  by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest HSBC  considered  whether Mr E had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs E given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded HSBC advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs E, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr E met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs E had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Es ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if     
Mr E  was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy benefits and sick pay benefits Mr E says he would  have been  entitled to.
-Although Mr and Mrs E say they were financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
Ref: DRN83770715-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs E. 
There was nothing  about Mr Es employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr E has told 
us about a medical condition he suffered from in 1987 which resulted in him taking  
four months off work. However, given that this condition arose almost 10 years  
before Mr E took the policy out and there is no evidence that the condition recurred, I 
think the policy was still suitable  for Mr E and it would have covered him for other  
medical conditions.  There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental 
health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment it still provided useful cover given Mr and Mrs Es 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr E was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs E 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
Due to the lack of evidence  available  from the time of the sale, I dont know  if HSBC gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs E agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs E Im not persuaded 
HSBC did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr and Mrs E all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Es representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and   
Mrs Es. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Es representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN83770716-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs E about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs E have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that HSBC ought to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs E? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs E suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and    
Mrs E. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
and Mrs E suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs E would have still taken  out the policy, had HSBC done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs E, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs E have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs E would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs E say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs E had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Ref: DRN83770717Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear HSBC told them the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs E applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs E would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with HSBC  at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs E would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs E would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Es 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs E thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr E knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  or any serious or 
continuing condition  he had at the start date; or for which he had received any 
treatment or advice during the 12 months before the start date and which  returns 
within 12 months of the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr E 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs E pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs E from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr E was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr E says he had a medical  
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because the condition occurred 
almost 10 years before the PPI was taken out. There is no evidence  to suggest it was a 
recurring condition  and so I dont think this would have been the main reason that Mr E 
would have wanted to take the policy out. Mr E would still have been covered for other 
medical conditions.  
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
Ref: DRN83770718would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs E would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, the accident or sickness would  have  to have been such that it 
stopped Mr E from working.  I dont think this is likely to be too different to what  he would 
have expected to make a claim.  It seems unlikely he would have thought hed been able to 
make a successful claim if he was still working, whether that be in his job or any other job. 
.
HSBC may not have  told Mr E that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for. But 12 
months was a longer period than Mr E would  have received full sick pay for and his statutory  
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs E would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr E be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensure their home was not placed at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mr Es sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs E would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr E was made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs E would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Es representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs E would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs E found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN83770719Mr and Mrs E believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr and Mrs E compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs E think HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs E, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1996  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Es representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs E and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that HSBC  had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs E in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8377071