K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the way TSB Bank  plc has managed  his current  account.  He says 
TSB Bank plc didnt  send a replacement debit  card to him as requested and that they hold 
different addresses  on their systems  for him which is causing problems. 
background
Mr Ss debit  card was replaced  in late September 2018 by TSB due to a fraudulent activity 
that had been identified  by their IT systems. The replacement card was sent to Mr Ss old 
address. So Mr S went into his local branch to ask for another card to be sent. And 
according to Mr S, TSB told him that his address had been  updated  and that hed receive the 
new card within ten days. 
However, Mr S didnt receive the card so he contacted TSB. Mr S says he was told on the 
phone that a new card would  be sent but he didnt  receive this. So he contacted  TSB again 
who told him again that a new card would be ordered and sent. But, once again, Mr S didnt 
receive this. And by this time, hed noticed his account statement  was addressed to his old 
office address  and that TSBs mobile  app showed  his current office address rather than his 
residential one. 
 
Mr S complained to TSB about what had happened. He mentioned  that hed had to use his 
credit card and rely on friends and family for financial help because  hed been  without a debit 
card for so long. In response, TSB told Mr S they accepted  hed been  inconvenienced  and 
had been caused embarrassment.  TSB apologised and offered Mr S £500 for this and £50 
for the costs hed incurred trying to sort this out. 
TSB promised to send  Mr S the replacement debit  card within seven working days of its 
letter. However, Mr S says he didnt receive  the card and had noticed  TSB still hadnt 
updated his address correctly across all of the relevant formats.  So he asked our service to 
look at his complaint.   
Our investigator looked at the case and agreed  TSB hadnt handled things well but felt theyd 
offered a fair amount  of compensation. He said he was satisfied that TSB had sent Mr a 
replacement card in December 2018,  and that this card has been used. He also mentioned 
that Mr S had other  means of accessing  money from his account rather  than having to use 
his credit card or rely on the financial help of others.  And he also said he was satisfied TSB 
had, albeit eventually,  changed Mr Ss address on their systems correctly. 
Mr S didnt agree so his case has been passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
TSB accepts they didnt  provide Mr S with a good  level of service.  I agree with this. I can 
imagine how frustrating  it was for Mr S to wait so long for a replacement  card.  
Ref: DRN89420152However, I dont think Mr S had no other option  than to use his credit  card or to ask for 
friends and family for financial help. Mr S couldve  gone into a branch of TSB and withdrawn 
cash if he needed it for example. Or indeed withdrawn a certain amount of cash  to put aside 
for future use. 
I realise this wouldve caused Mr S more inconvenience. But it couldve arguably  caused him 
less embarrassment.  Thats  not to say Mr S wasnt caused embarrassment.  He clearly was. 
But there were other options for him to potentially  explore knowing that he didnt have a debit 
card to use. So, had TSB not made an offer of compensation in respect of the 
embarrassment Mr S had been caused,  I likely wouldnt have instructed TSB to pay anything 
in respect of this. I dont  in any way wish to underplay what happened to Mr S. And Im 
certainly not saying  he was at fault.  But I think this wasnt an unreasonable course of action. 
I note Mr S also experienced problems with getting  his address changed to the correct one 
so that it matched across all of the account services he has with TSB. TSB has confirmed  
this has now been put in place. Again, this has taken  some  time which no doubt has 
frustrated Mr S even further.   
Mr S now has his debit card. Assuming that TSB has correctly updated Mr Ss address on 
their systems, I think the £550 that TSB has paid Mr S for what happened is a very fair 
amount. So I wont  be asking TSB to pay anything further. I accept Mr S feels that the £550  
covered what had happened to him up until November 2018  when  TSB responded to his 
complaint. And that hed still experienced problems after then. But I likely wouldnt have 
directed TSB to pay Mr S that much even if the matter was still completely unresolved right 
now and TSB hadnt made any offer of compensation, for the reasons Ive given above. And 
this means naturally that I wouldnt have increased it beyond £550.  
I would point out though  that, should Mr S subsequently learn that his address still hasnt 
been updated correctly, he would be entitled  to complain to TSB about  this. TSB would need 
to give careful thought  to whether or not further  compensation would be due. And Mr S may 
be able to refer the matter  to us should that be appropriate. 
In closing, I would just point out that I havent made  a finding on whether or not Mr S used a 
debit card in December as mentioned by our investigator. I dont  feel this would add anything  
to my overall  conclusion  on whether or not TSB needs to pay any further  compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8942015