K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Zenith Insurance Plc rejected his claim and accused him of fraud.
background
Mr H had a motorbike which he insured online through  Zenith at 21:05  on 5 March 2018. 
The bike wasnt insured  immediately before this. The bike was stolen and set alight the 
same day. Although the time of the theft is unknown, the fair was discovered at 22:03.
There were some discrepancies Mr H gave to Zenith, the police and the insurance 
investigators. Zenith believed the theft had taken place before Mr H insured the bike with 
them and they repudiated the claim  they said they believed  it was a fraudulent claim. 
In summary  I said that the time of the theft could only be narrowed  down to a three-hour 
window, between 19:10 and 22:03.  And Mr H insured his bike two hours into that three-hour  
window. So the bike couldve been stolen before or after it was insured. But, because it 
would take some time for the theft to take place, for the bike to be moved to a new location a 
few miles away,  and for it to be deliberately set alight; I believed it was more  likely than not 
that the theft took place  earlier rather than later.
So my provisional decision was that Zenith acted reasonably in denying  the claim.
Both Mr H and Zenith have been given the opportunity to comment  on my provisional  
decision. Zenith didnt  respond,  so Im taking this to mean they have  no objections. But Mr H 
disagreed with my view.
Mr H said his bike was a heavy work horse  of a bike and not a fun thing to joyride  [so] its 
more likely the bike was stolen, driven a few miles and dumped. This would have taken less 
than 5 minutes to cover  the 1.4miles sticking to the speed limit, which  we can assume they 
did not. There is no evidence to suggest  the bike was joyridden for any amount of time while 
there is evidence to suggest  it could have taken place within the time frame of this event.
Mr H has also said I did not set out to fraudulently  claim  on the insurance. Where as the 
timings are unfortunate, when I sat down in front of my computer to get insurance, to the 
best of my knowledge  my motorbike was sat outside  my house.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive responded to the points raised by 
Mr H below.
I dont doubt what  Mr H says about the weight of his bike, or about how fun it was to drive.  
But, without  any evidence  of the actual time of the theft, I have to consider what  was more 
likely than not to have happened.
It is possible that Mr Hs bike was stolen  in the (just short of) one hour between him insuring 
the bike and the fire service being  notified of the fire. But with the time it would take for the 
bike to be set alight,  for the fire to be noticed, for the fire service to called, this time period 
would be less than an hour.
Ref: DRN82358762Mr H has said it was unlikely his bike was joyridden,  and it was more likely it was driven  1.4 
miles (at speeds exceeding the speed limit)  then immediately  set alight. I agree theres no 
evidence of joyriding,  but theres also no evidence of the scenario Mr H describes either. 
Just as the time of the theft is unknown, so is what  actually happened after the theft.
If the intention  of the thieves was just to set something alight, this couldve just as easily  
been done outside Mr Hs house  as done  1.4 miles away.  As there  were  no witnesses to the 
theft, there wouldnt have  been witnesses to the bike being set alight outside Mr Hs house 
either. So its more  likely that the thieves used the bike for some  purpose between the theft 
and the fire. Joyriding  is a likely explanation,  but its not the only explanation. But, whatever 
the explanation, this something wouldve taken time.
The timings  may just have  been  unfortunate but given the above, and given there was 
substantially more time between Mr H last seeing  his bike and the time it was insured than 
the time between the bike was insured and the fire reported; there is sufficient doubt that the 
bike wasnt insured  at the time of the theft for Zenith to refuse the claim. Mr Hs comments  
dont change my view on this.
My provisional decision also referred  to Zenith  initially charging Mr H for the cost of their 
investigation, and then refunding this to him. This was based on the evidence  Id seen, but 
Mr H says he hasnt received this refund. Because Zenith arent able to charge where they 
repudiate a claim because they believe it has been fraudulent;  if they havent already  
refunded this amount to Mr H, Id expect them to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Zenith Insurance Plc. 
So I wont  be asking them to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82358763copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Zenith Insurance Plc rejected his claim and accused him of fraud.
background
Mr H had a motorbike which  had failed its MOT on 23 February  2018.  And the existing bike insurance 
had expired on 27 February. Mr H insured  his bike online through  Zenith at 21:05  on 5 March  2018.  
The bike was also stolen on 5 March, although the actual time of the theft is unknown.  The bike was 
found by the police the same  day, after itd been set on fire  the report by the fire service puts the fire 
at 22:03.
Mr H discovered the theft the following morning and reported it to the police. Later that day the police  
contacted to tell him theyd  recovered his bike. Because of the fire damage,  the bike was written  off. 
Zenith said there were discrepancies  in the statements Mr H had given them,  the police and their 
insurance investigators. They believed the theft had taken  place before Mr H insured it with them.
Zenith repudiated Mr Hs claim because of the discrepancies and said they believed it was a 
fraudulent claim. They  initially charged Mr H for the cost of their investigation, but then refunded these 
costs to him  while  theyre entitled  to make this change with a repudiated claim, they cant charge if 
the repudiation  is because of fraud.
Mr H has complained that Zenith have accused him of making a fraudulent claim  and refused to pay 
out because of this.
Our adjudicator found  Zenith had acted unreasonably.  He said that, while  there were some  
discrepancies in Mr Hs statements, it wasnt reasonable to say that just because Mr H last saw his 
bike at 19:10, it was stolen before 21:05.  There was no convincing evidence to support this. He 
thought it could equally have been stolen after 21:05.
Because of this, the adjudicator thought Zenith should arrange for the insurance  cancellation  to be 
removed from all internal and external records, and confirm this in writing to Mr H. He thought  they 
should also pay Mr H £150 for the trouble and upset  Zeniths decision,  and their accusation of fraud, 
had caused him.
Zenith disagreed  with the adjudicator. They said that Mr H had provided conflicting  and untruthful 
information, telling the police hed last seen the bike at 19:10, but telling them hed last seen it at 
23:00 - which  couldnt be the case because it was on fire at 22:00. Because  of this theyve asked  that 
an ombudsman make  a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Its not disputed that Mr H gave  conflicting statements.  He gave conflicting  details about  whether  hed 
continued to use his bike after the existing  insurance  had expired, and after itd failed an MOT. 
Whether he did or didnt use his bike during this period has no bearing on the actual theft itself,  so I 
wont go into these discrepancies.
Mr H also gave conflicting  information  about  when he last saw his bike.  When  he reported the theft on 
6 March, Mr H told the police hed last seen his bike at 19:10 on 5 March.  But he told Zenith hed last 
seen his bike at 23:00. In a handwritten statement signed on 26 April 2018,  Mr H stated  the last time 
I saw the bike was 11pm om 6/3 5/3/18.  Mr H also initialled the date correction.
Ref: DRN82358764As Zenith  have pointed out, Mr H couldnt have seen his bike at 23:00  on 5 March, because  it was on 
fire at 22:03. And the fire took place  after the theft.  
Ive seen that Mr H had said, when  he closed his curtains (on the evening of 5 March), it was dark,  
and he didnt  notice the bike wasnt there. So I can understand there could possibly have been some 
confusion about the time Mr H last saw his bike when he reported the theft to the police  on 6 March  
this was before  hed been  told when and where his bike was set alight.  But on 26 April,  more than six 
weeks after the theft, Mr H wouldve known  he couldnt have seen his bike at 23:00 on 5 March.  
Because of this I can understand  why Zenith have concerns that Mr H breached the fraud condition  of 
his policy. And therefore  declined the claim. And I think its reasonable they reached this conclusion 
on the evidence they had available to them.
Im discounting Mr Hs statement that he last saw his bike at 23:00   because  of the timing  of the fire 
it cannot  be correct. So, based on the evidence  Ive seen, the bike was stolen at sometime between  
19:10 and 22:03. This is roughly a three-hour time period  and Ive not seen any other evidence  that 
would narrow down the time of the theft.
Mr H insured his bike online  at 21:05  two hours into that three-hour time period.  So the bike 
couldve been  stolen  before or after the time it was insured.  But the bike was moved to the location  of 
the fire (a few miles away from Mr Hs home), parked up and deliberately set alight. This wouldve 
taken some time. And its likely the bike was also ridden around  for a time before it was set alight (this 
is often  the case when a vehicle is stolen for joy-riding  the most  likely explanation for the theft 
given the subsequent fire).
While this couldve all happened between 21:05 and 22:04, given  circumstances and the three-hour 
time period  when the theft couldve taken place;  I believe its more likely than not that the theft 
wouldve taken place earlier in this three-hour time period  rather than later. So the bike wouldnt  have 
been insured at the time of the theft, and Zenith acted reasonably in denying the claim.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont intend to uphold  Mr Hs complaint about  Zenith Insurance Plc.
Ref: DRN8235876