K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
has calculated for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy and the fact he has 
not received any payment of compensation directly.
background
Mr F took out a Visa credit card with Barclays in October 1986 but didnt take out a PPI 
policy. In November 1996 Mr F was sold a PPI policy associated with the card. 
In 2018 Mr F complained  he had been  mis-sold the PPP. Barclays agreed  the policy was 
mis-sold and calculated that £26,297.82 before  tax was due to him in total compensation to 
refund the PPI costs and pay some compensatory interest. But Mr F had made a number of 
claims on the policy over the years  and the total paid in claims came to £164,621.39. 
Barclays said it was setting the compensation due against the claims total and nothing  was 
left to be paid to Mr F.
Mr F brought  his complaint to this service as he wasnt happy with what  Barclays had said.  
He said Barclays hadnt worked out correctly the interest he had paid over the years. He also 
stated that the PPI was illegal  and Barclays shouldnt  be allowed to make money, as they 
did, by charging an APR interest  rate when it had sold an illegal product. He implies  he 
should get back all the APR interest  charged  on the card and he also feels the claim paid out 
is irrelevant. 
Our adjudicator said they thought that what Barclays had done  was fair. Mr F remained 
unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr F complained to Barclays in 2018 that the PPI had been mis-sold it upheld  his 
complaint. So in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came  to be mis-sold, Im only 
considering if what  Barclays has calculated and done with the compensation for the mis-sale 
is fair and reasonable. 
Also, I am not considering any other  issues raised  by Mr F during the investigation of his 
complaint about  credit  levels  on his card. That would have to be initially taken up with 
Barclays and if Mr F remains  unhappy could possibly be brought to this service as a 
separate complaint. 
When PPI is found  to be mis-sold - and not all PPI policies were mis-sold  - we expect a 
business to put a consumer as far as possible in the position they would have been in if PPI 
had never  been  taken  out. 
This means  working out how much  was paid for the PPI whilst it was running and refunding 
this to the consumer.  This should include all premiums and any costs caused by the PPI 
such as interest and fees. Also if the credit card balance was cleared then the consumer 
would have paid the full costs of the PPI and be out of pocket, so compensatory interest  
should be paid.  
Ref: DRN80747942However putting the consumer as far as possible in the position they would have  been  in, 
also means taking into account that if the PPI hadnt been taken out, any claims would not 
have been paid to cover the costs of the repayments for any time a consumer was unable to 
work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. So if a claim was paid it is fair that this is 
taken into account,  just as its fair to refund all the costs of the PPI.
In Mr Fs case Barclays has worked out that the PPI added to Mr Fs credit card account  
meant he would  have paid £21,431.98 more than he should have done  over the time the PPI 
was active on the account - that is for this VISA card from November 1996  to 
December 2018.  It has also worked out some compensatory  interest at the rate of 8% simple  
for any times  it has deemed  Mr F may have been  out of pocket for the PPI costs. This comes 
to £4,865.84.
Normally this total calculated, in this case just over £26,000, would be paid to Mr F. But Mr F 
made a number of successful claims for accident  and sickness  on his PPI policy over the 
years it was active. He was paid a total of £164,621.39 in claims between 1996 and 2018. If 
he had never had the policy none  of these claims  would  have been paid. And because  the 
PPI had been mis-sold,  this payment of the claims has to be taken  into account to put Mr F 
in the position he would  have been in if he hadnt bought it.
I have taken full account of Mr Fs comments about the APR interest charged to his card.  For 
the amounts Mr F spent for his own use then clearly it is fair he should pay for the amounts 
he borrowed, by paying interest on it. But the interest caused by the PPI should  not have 
been added  and so he should  not have to pay this part of the interest charged.
There are a number of ways a business  can calculate the compensation due in cases where  
PPI has been  mis-sold  that are considered fair. In this case  I do have some concerns about 
the calculation  approach  taken by Barclays in working out the amount of interest  caused by 
the PPI when taking into account  the claims payments  made. However this also affects  the 
compensatory interest  calculated as due to Mr F, which I think may be generous. 
Credit card interest  is added  monthly  and becomes part of the account balance,  the amount  
of interest charged is based on the actual  card balance in any particular month. Looking at 
the data and taking a very simple but extreme approach, the highest interest ever charged in 
one month  that I can find was £287.69.  If this amount of interest had been charged every  
month for the whole time the card was active a total amount of £75,950.16 would have been  
charged on the account for everything, had the balance always  remained constant. The 
balance amount included both spending  and interest still in the balance  added previously. 
Clearly this amount  of interest was not added every  month as can be seen in the credit card 
data and the balance went up and down.
But if you add to this £75,950 interest, the total amount paid for the PPI premiums and the 
fees caused by the PPI, the total overall  is just under £97,000. This is still some £67,000 less 
than Mr F received in claim  payments.
I have quoted this extreme  example to show to Mr F that however the calculation of the 
costs of the PPI and the interest it caused  is made, that he still received more  in claims than 
he paid for the PPI premiums and all the interest  charged to his card. 
Having had a calculation undertaken on the account data available, the total interest 
charged on the account would actually have been  less than £60,000. Taking  into account 
Ref: DRN80747943Mr Fs view that all the APR interest  should  be refunded, this indicates that the PPI costs of 
£21,431.98 plus all the interest  ever charged would be no more than £80,000. This is far less 
than the claims paid.
I note Mr Fs comments about the claims payments not being relevant. But the claims paid 
are relevant  to this matter as they would not have been paid if the PPI had not been taken 
out. Mr F isnt being asked to repay  any of the claim amounts.  But setting off the costs 
calculated for PPI whilst  it was active, and some compensatory interest, against the amount 
paid in claims is fair in the circumstances of this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  Im satisfied  that what Barclays Bank UK PLC has done in 
working out the compensation for Mr Fs mis-sold PPI policy is fair. Nothing is due to be paid 
to Mr F and I am not telling Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8074794