K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains he received threatening communications  from MBNA Limited inferring hes 
incurring charges and fees on his credit card and hes concerned  credit  reference  agencies 
may be told hes in persistent debt. He wants compensation for the stress and worry hes 
been caused.
background
MBNA said it wrote to Mr M saying  that in line with his accounts terms and conditions  it was 
increasing his minimum monthly  payments. It said this was in response to the requirement  of 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) to tell customers when they were in persistent debt. 
Increasing the minimum payments would mean Mr M would pay off his credit  card faster  and 
pay less interest overall.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
MBNA gave Mr M sufficient notice of the increase  in his minimum payment and this 
was all in line with the accounts terms and conditions.
MBNAs communications  said that for the last 18 months  Mr M had been paying 
more in interest and charges than towards the account balance. And he was 
considered to be in persistent debt. 
MBNAs regulator, the FCA, has asked it to tell its customers  when they were  in 
persistent debt. And MBNA proposed increasing  the minimum payment to allow  Mr M 
to pay off more of the outstanding balance. It also said this change could be opted  
out of by a specified  date.
Mr M felt MBNAs communications were threatening  but they werent intended that 
way. The letters sent to him were  generic and sent to a number  of MBNAs 
customers. They also said Mr M could  contact it to get more information. Its not for 
us to look at the letters  wording. Thats a matter for the regulator.
MBNA has confirmed there  isnt currently a persistent debt flag to apply to a credit 
file. But FCA guidance requires  it to tell customers there may be in the future. Its 
said that as Mr M has increased his minimum payment hes no longer classed as 
being in persistent debt. It sent him a further  letter about a week before his minimum 
payment increased.  She thinks that was an oversight. 
MBNA has dealt with Mr M fairly and she wont be asking it to do anything.
Mr M remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. He says hes never  
incurred any fees or charges but MBNAs  letters imply he has. His annual  statement shows  
fees and charges at zero. He remains concerned his credit  rating will be affected if hes said 
to be in persistent  debt.  He still thinks a letter sent amounts to harassment and continuing 
correspondence unduly pressures him even though his minimum payment has increased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN80112392I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
MBNA sent Mr M some  generic letters. Its unfortunate if Mr M found them  harassing  or 
threatening but MBNA has explained why they were  sent. Its says they were  designed to 
comply with the FCAs guidelines about  telling customers that they could be considered  in 
persistent debt, what this meant and what MBNA proposed to do to assist them to pay off 
their outstanding balance more quickly incurring  less interest. I think  MBNA acted 
appropriately by sending these letters.
The mention  of charges and fees in the generic letters  is understandable as it helped MBNA 
to explain what persistent debt meant and was no doubt relevant to a lot of its customers. 
Mr M says his account wasnt subject to any fees or charges. That may well be the case. But 
MBNA has sent us copies  of his statements from December 2017  to January 2018 and they 
do show hed an outstanding balance and was charged interest on it every month. 
Consequently Mr M was actually paying back more towards the interest charged than he 
was off the outstanding balance. And I dont think MBNA was wrong  to tell him he could be 
considered to be in persistent debt or that this might eventually be recorded  on his credit file.
MBNA also acted to take him out of persistent debt by increasing  his monthly minimum 
payments. This was in line with the accounts terms and conditions. Mr M has allowed this 
increase to go ahead even  though he couldve opted  out. That means he isnt now 
considered in to be in persistent debt.  This seems  reasonable action for MBNA to have 
proposed and taken.
Mr M is concerned about what MBNA may record on his credit file in the future. That will of 
course depend on how he manages  his account. If he were  again to fall into and be consider 
in persistent debt it may be that MBNA  would be required to specifically record this on his 
credit file in the future. But its confirmed  that a specific marker for persistent debt isnt 
currently in use at the moment.
MBNA has an ongoing obligation to record accurate  information on Mr Ms credit file. So, if 
he is unhappy about any adverse information  it records on his credit file in the future  he will 
be free to complain to MBNA in the first instance.
Overall, I think MBNA has treated Mr M fairly and I dont think  I can reasonably ask it to do 
anything more including paying any compensation as Mr M would like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8011239