K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about advice he received in 1988 and 1989 to take out Merchant 
Investor pension plans. He says the adviser should  have told him to join the scheme  run by 
his employer and hes lost out financially as a result.
Merchant Investor is now part of Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited (Sanlam). For 
convenience Ive just referred  to Sanlam below. 
background
Mr R was advised to take out a regular premium  retirement annuity  contract  (RAC) in 1988 
and the following year to contract out of SERPS using a personal pension.  At both points I 
understand he was with the same employer.  The employer  offered a pension  scheme. But 
employees had to be aged  25 to join. Mr Rs 25th birthday was in October 1991. So, when  he 
took out the RAC and the personal  pension,  he wasnt  eligible to join his employers scheme. 
The adjudicator who looked into Mr Rs complaint initially  upheld it. She said,  as Mr R 
wanted to start making provision for his retirement  and wasnt  yet able to join his employers  
scheme, the plans recommended werent  inherently unsuitable. But he ought to have been 
told he should join his employers scheme when  he became eligible to do so and there was 
no evidence that had happened. 
She understood from Mr Rs former employers successor that the minimum age for joining 
the scheme had been reduced to 21 in 1990.  So Mr R would have become eligible to join 
then. The adjudicator thought Mr Rs failure to do that stemmed  from the advice hed been 
given to take out the RAC and the personal  pension So she upheld that part of the complaint 
and set out how Sanlam needed to put things  right for Mr R  aimed  at putting him in the 
position hed be in now if hed joined his employers scheme when  he was first able to do so. 
In response Sanlam said that Mr R had stopped  paying contributions in September  1990 
although payments  from the DSS/DWP  had continued. 
When we asked Mr R about  that he told us that hed bought a house  in late 1990 and 
minimised all payments  out for twelve months to get used to paying  the mortgage  and other 
bills. Hed started to save again for his retirement in early 1992   he took out a personal  
pension plan with a different provider.
We also made some further  enquiries  with the employers  successor.  It gave us a copy  of 
the 1990 scheme booklet which details the first changes to the scheme, including that 
employees aged 20 and over can join. But we were unable to get confirmation of the exact 
date the rules had changed. The employers successor did say that, when the scheme rules 
changed, employees would have been notified  and potential  new members invited to join. 
The booklet  said that if an employee didnt  want to be in the scheme he should  tell the 
personnel department and there  was a form to sign, acknowledging that the member  and his 
dependents wouldnt receive  benefits  (aside  from reduced life assurance) from the scheme 
or the employer. But copies  of those forms hadnt been retained.   
In the light of the further information  the adjudicator revised her view. Mr R wasnt eligible to 
join his employers pension scheme when the plans were sold. She maintained that the 
advice to take out those plans wasnt unsuitable.  Mr R hadnt  later joined the employers 
Ref: DRN87888822scheme. So the issue was whether Sanlam was responsible for him not joining when he 
became eligible to do so. 
The employers successor had said that Mr R would have been invited to join in 1990. Mr R 
had explained  that, since leaving that employer, hed joined  all his subsequent employers 
pension schemes. But, given what hed said about  buying a property later in 1990 (and 
reducing his outgoings), the adjudicator wasnt able to say hed have  joined  his employers 
scheme in 1990  or that his failure  to join then resulted from Sanlams earlier advice. 
She also noted from the scheme booklet that potential members  could join up to two years  
after their first opportunity  to do so. But when Mr R was able to make  further  pension  
contributions hed had advice from another  adviser.  Sanlam wasnt  responsible  for Mr R not 
joining his employers scheme in 1992.
On that basis the adjudicator no longer thought Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr R didnt agree and raised some further  points  which the adjudicator considered. But she 
wasnt persuaded to change  her (revised) conclusions. Amongst other things she said the 
waiting period (before Mr R could join the employers  pension scheme) was fairly lengthy 
and it wasnt inappropriate to consider  making  personal pension contributions  which would 
attract tax relief  in the interim. Shed looked  at the charges on the plans Mr R had taken 
out. There were no additional charges if contributions stopped  and no monthly  or annual  
policy fee. Mr R wouldnt have been unfairly penalised if hed stopped contributing. 
The adjudicator hadnt been  able to ascertain exactly  when  the employers pension  
schemes rules had changed.  It was definitely  possible  that Mr R would have become eligible 
to join the scheme  before  his property  purchase. But it was fair to take into account that hed 
stopped paying into his personal pension. And the employers successor  had said Mr R 
would have been notified that he was eligible to join the pension scheme. It seemed Mr Rs 
decision not to join was linked to affordability  and not the earlier  advice. 
Mr R pointed out that a pension  is a long term savings plan. Sanlam had nothing  to confirm 
that hed been told about his employers scheme.  Hed have been eligible to join that in 
November 1991,  only two or three  years after hed been sold the plans. What the adjudicator 
had said about  the length of that period was contradictory. 
Mr R said he could simply have been  told to wait and save  his money  and join the much 
better employers scheme in two or three  years time.  The only reason was for the adviser to 
get commission and for Sanlam to get his money  and charge him. Just because there was 
no requirement for a suitability report doesnt absolve Sanlam from a responsibility  to provide 
suitable advice.  
Mr R said he understood that where documentary evidence isnt available  the ombudsman  
will decide  what reasonably happened. Hed been  sold two pension  plans. He was keen to 
save for his retirement   he paid into the two plans (for over ten years for one of them) 
before joining another  employers pension scheme.  And, despite  buying a house, he started 
another pension  plan in early 1992.  So he was financially able to contribute.  
It isnt reasonable  to say hed have decided to ignore the benefits  of an employers  scheme 
in favour  of personal  pension plans which would provide far lower benefits. His decision was 
linked to the fact that Sanlam hadnt told him about the benefits of the employers scheme 
and had said the pensions they sold him were  best for his needs. 
Ref: DRN87888823He could have  joined the employers scheme  in April 1990, eight months before his house  
purchase was completed in December 1990.  In April 1990 he wasnt even considering 
buying a property. His decision not to join his employers scheme can only be linked to the 
advice hed been given. 
Mr R referred  to what the literature said about  a pension being  a long term contract with the 
maximum potential return on the investment achieved  by continuing contributions. That 
doesnt suggest that contributing for just two or three years is suitable. Theres a set up 
charge and the booklet says that for some period the plan will have no value if contributions 
cease. Plus a monthly maintenance  charge will continue  to be applied  and if at any later time 
the plan ceases to have  a value it will terminate.  
Mr R said that for the SERPS plan he wouldnt have made any money on his contributions  
for the first five years.  The regular contribution tables  again imply that he wouldnt have 
made any money for the first three  years. This is also assuming a growth rate of 10.75% pa. 
While interest  rates  were  higher than this seems highly unlikely over a sustained period. The 
information about charges seems to confirm  he wouldn't have got any benefit for two/three 
year's membership,  so the advice and the products were unsuitable. 
Theres nothing to show that he did receive  information about his employers scheme. And 
even if he did, his decisions  were  based on the advice hed received. Given the employers 
size, Sanlam would have known that it had a pension scheme. Sanlam didnt make the 
benefits of that scheme clear and so Mr R had no reason to consider joining his employers 
scheme  hed been sold products that he thought were in his best interests.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial regulation started in the UK with the Financial Services  Act 1986 (the 1986 Act) 
which came  into force  on 29 April 1988.  The sale of Mr Rs RAC  was (just) before that date. 
So it wasnt  subject to the suitability requirements introduced by the 1986 Act. The sale was 
instead subject  to the usual contractual principles  such as providing information which 
doesnt misrepresent  the product thats being sold. 
Ive considered the sale of the RAC against that background.  Theres  no dispute that Mr R 
wasnt then eligible to join his employers pension scheme. Or that, having  just got his first 
proper job, he was looking  to start saving for his retirement. So my starting point is that 
recommending he start contributing to a pension arrangements wasnt  inappropriate. I dont 
agree that he should have been told to simply wait until he became eligible to join his 
employers scheme  at the time his 25th birthday was over three years away.  
I note what Mr Rs said about the charging structure  of the RAC. But the charges were 
disclosed in the literature. I dont think theres any dispute that Mr R was given a copy  of the 
brochure  he signed the proposal form acknowledging safe receipt. And a copy of the terms 
and conditions was sent to him once the RAC  had been set up. I dont think  the charges 
were unclear  or misrepresented. 
I can see Mr Rs point that, if hed only be contributing to the RAC for an interim period and 
before he joined his employers scheme,  the charges  could be viewed as disproportionate. 
Ref: DRN87888824But, as the adjudicator pointed out, there were no additional charges if contributions  stopped 
and no monthly or annual  policy  fee. So there was no penalty as such  if Mr R decided for 
whatever reason to stop contributing. I dont  think the charges meant the RAC  offered no 
value for Mr Rs money or made  it inappropriate  for Mr R. 
The SERPS plan was sold the following year. It allowed  Mr R to benefit  from national 
insurance rebates  and the incentive that the government was then offering. By then the 1986 
Act had come  into effect  and so the sale was subject to the suitability rules.  
In considering suitability for contracting out of SERPS via an individual  personal pension, we 
look at the consumers age and earnings.  Mr R met the criteria on both counts.  And, as 
things stood, it was still over two years  before hed be able to join his employers scheme.  
I note what Mr R has said about  an assumed growth  rate of 10.75% pa being  unsustainable. 
But, and as he recognises, economic conditions at the time were  very different. Pension 
illustrations are usually prepared using assumed growth rates set by the regulator. Between  
July 1988 and November 1993  the projection  rates were  8.5%  (lower) and 13% (higher). A 
return of 10.75%  pa is about mid-way. Economic conditions  havent been as favourable as 
might, at the time, have  appeared  reasonably  to expect.  But I dont think that at the time that 
sort of assumed growth rate was unrealistic.  
All in all I dont think the advice to take out the SERPS plan was unsuitable. 
Ive considered what Mr R says about  the advice resulting  in him not joining his employers 
scheme when it became  open to him to do so. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened  (or didnt  happen)  well decide  that on the 
balance of probabilities (that is whats more likely) and taking into account such  evidence as 
is available. Where some time has passed well bear that in mind too. It may mean that 
some evidence is no longer available or is less reliable. Here  were looking at what 
happened in 1990  almost thirty  years  ago  and in particular why Mr R didnt  join his 
employers pension scheme then. It looks like the employer, at one stage, may have retained  
a record as to why Mr R hadnt joined its scheme.  Such evidence  would have been helpful 
but it isnt available now.  
I can see why the adjudicator concluded  that Mr Rs reasons centred on affordability. It 
seemed Mr R was looking  to buy a property in 1990. The timing  of him not joining his 
employers scheme and stopping his contributions to the RAC more  or less coincided  with 
that.
Mr Rs now said that it wasnt contemplating buying a property  in April 1990 so he had no 
reason not to join the employers scheme then. He stopped contributing to his RAC in 
September 1990 which is consistent with what he says about  the timing  of his property 
purchase  if it completed in December 1990  then by the September  the purchase would 
have been underway with Mr R looking to reduce his outgoings, in the short term at least. 
But, as Ive said, it was all a long time ago and its difficult to rely on recollections and timings  
which arent easily verifiable. I know the date of Mr Rs purchase will be recorded  but that 
wont show what his plans, if any, were in April 1990.
And we havent  been able to ascertain exactly when the scheme rules changed or precisely 
how the new lower  age eligibility  worked.  For example,  its possible  that prospective new 
Ref: DRN87888825members would be invited  to join from their next birthday  which would  have been  October  
1990 for Mr R. 
Even if Mr R could  have joined in April 1990 I still think its difficult  to say that his failure to do 
so then was down to deficiencies in the advice hed been given in 1988 and 1989. Ignoring 
the affordability point,  Mr R has said that, even if his employer had invited him to join its 
scheme, he thought  the products hed been sold earlier were the most suitable for him 
anyway. But, if the availability  of any employers scheme hadnt been discussed  when  the 
advice was given,  Mr R would have known that what had been recommended hadnt  taken 
that into account. If he was then told he was now eligible to join his employers scheme, I 
dont think its unreasonable to say he should  have looked into that. 
To sum up, I dont think the advice Mr R was given in 1988  and 1989 was inappropriate or 
unsuitable. And I cant say that Mr Rs failure  to join his employers scheme  in April 1990 (or 
when it became open to him to do so) was because of the advice hed been given in 1988 
and 1989. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8788882