K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined  his home 
emergency insurance claim. My references to RSA include its agents.
background
Mr N had a home emergency insurance policy that included an annual  boiler  service.  RSA 
was the insurer.  In June 2018 RSAs appointed engineer carried out the annual  service and 
found there was a leak from the flue in the boiler.
The engineer told RSA (and RSA told Mr N) that the flue was leaking condensation  and 
products of combustion. The engineer  turned off the boiler so Mr N had no heating  or hot 
water. The boiler  had an extended flue. RSA told Mr N the repair wasnt covered by the 
policy as the leak was outside the first metre  of the flue.
Mr N arranged for a private  engineer to assess the problem. That engineer provided a report  
which said:
I was asked by Mr N to call and inspect the chimney flue as there was condensation water  
leaking from the joints. I removed the flue sections to replace the seals but on further 
inspection, I noticed  that the section which had been  replaced by one of (RSA) engineers  
was 40mm short. I had no choice but to supply and fit a new section of pipe.
The engineers invoice showed  the materials hed used which together with labour cost Mr N 
£405.99.
Mr N complained to us. He said the private  engineer found the leak was caused by the too 
short pipe RSAs  engineer fitted in the first metre of the flue in 2016.  Also the boiler  hadnt  
needed to be turned off. Mr N wants RSA to pay the private engineers invoice  and 
compensation as he says given his age hes been particularly inconvenienced.
Ultimately our investigator thought RSA had fairly declined the claim. The private engineers  
report didnt say the leak was in the first metre  of the flue or caused  by poor workmanship by 
RSAs engineer in 2016. Also the materials the private engineer  used strongly suggested he 
carried out work outside the first metre  of the flue.
Mr N disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. He said the 2018 repair corrected 
RSAs engineers incorrect 2016 repair. He asked if RSA had evidence the private engineer  
replaced any other part of the six metre flue pipe and said we should ask the engineers 
which section of the flue pipe was replaced  in 2018. Mr N also wanted  us wanted us to listen  
to the call recordings of his conversations with RSA in 2016 and 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
RSA doesnt have a recording of Mr Ns calls in 2016. Ive read its calls notes for 2016 and 
2018 but I dont need  to listen to the 2018  call recordings to come to my decision.  Thats  
Ref: DRN84994972because I need  to decide if RSA can fairly  and reasonably rely on the policy exclusion to 
decline the complaint,  and I think  it can. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear RSA doesnt cover repairs or replacement  of non-standard or extended 
flue systems.
The policy doesnt  specify meterage for an extended  flue but our investigators research 
shows that a standard flue is typically between 60-100cm. So RSA has been reasonable in 
saying that only damage to the first metre  of the flue is covered under the policy.
RSAs engineer told RSA the leak was outside of first metre of the flue and thats what  he 
also told Mr N.
The private engineers report  doesnt  say the leak was in the first metre of the flue or that the 
cause of the leak was only because the pipe fitted by RSAs engineer in 2016 was too short.
The private engineers report  also refers to water coming from joints (plural)  and that hes 
removed flue sections,  so not just the first flue section, to replace seals.  As our investigator 
detailed to Mr N the materials  noted in the private  engineers invoice strongly suggest he 
replaced more that just the first metre of the flue. Theres no evidence  that the private 
engineer just replaced the first metre section.
Its for Mr N to provide  the evidence to clarify  which part of the flue was replaced in 2018 to 
support his claim. If he can get further evidence from the private engineer which  shows  
either the leak was only in the first metre  of the flue and thats  all he replaced or that RSAs  
2016 repair was the sole cause of the leak then Mr N should  send that evidence  to RSA. 
RSA should then reconsider his claim on that new evidence.
On the evidence I have RSA fairly declined the claim on the basis  that the policy doesnt 
cover repairs  or replacement of non-standard or extended flue systems.
The private engineers report  doesnt  say the boiler  didnt need  to be turned off. As RSAs 
engineer reported that condensation and products of combustion were  leaking from the 
boiler its reasonable he turned off the boiler for safety reasons. I understand Mr N was 
inconvenienced by the lack of hot water  and heating, but I've no evidence that RSA was 
unreasonable to turn off the boiler. I make no compensation award to Mr N.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  4 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8499497