K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 with a 
vehicle hire purchase agreement. 
Mr R says Wheatside (Motors)  Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr R case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr R  Ill explain 
the reasons for my decision below.
Mr R says that he didnt  know  hes been  sold PPI  he thought hed just been sold 
Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance. He says that he wasnt given a choice and 
that he was unaware  that the policy was optional.
I cant know what was said to Mr R when he met with Wheatside  to purchase his vehicle  
so I have to rely of the evidence I do have.  Wheatside has provided  a copy  of Mr Rs hire 
purchase agreement.  On this, I can see that where the PPI is presented and costs laid out, it 
is described as an optional product. Theres also a separate  box at the bottom of the 
agreement that contains the wording I wish to purchase the following  insurance(s)  (Tick the 
relevant box(es)) , after which there are boxes for PPI, and for GAP insurance.  Both boxes 
have been ticked   and Mr R has signed  just underneath.
So taking everything in to account,  I think Wheatside  made it clear that Mr R didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this as it was so long ago.
Wheatside didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Wheatside  gave  Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  Wheatside  doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said, including  what  hes said about having  
alternative means he couldve used such as sick pay, and that he wasnt given the 
opportunity to look for better value  for money options from other providers. 
Ref: DRN80940492But the PPI couldve  paid out for longer than the cover  Mr R has said he already had in 
place. And Wheatside  was under  no obligation  to promote sales  that could be made  by other  
businesses. So these  points dont change my decision.
other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how lenders should  deal with complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission where  PPI was sold. 
But Wheatside (Motors) Limited wasnt Mr Rs lender. So I dont think these rules apply. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  by 3 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8094049