K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC reduced  the credit limit on his credit  card account and 
complains about  how it dealt with a late payment.
background
Mr P lives in Spain and collects his mail from a company there.  He accepts he missed two 
payments on his credit card account but says he held other Lloyds accounts with a large 
amount of savings in one. He says that Lloyds couldve tried to contact him by other 
methods. Mr P says Lloyds has reduced his credit limit from £10,500 to £500 and would like 
that limit increased to about £3,000 to £4,000.
Lloyds says its not made a mistake and has acted  in line with the account terms and 
conditions by reducing a credit  limit where  it thinks  it appropriate. It says it sent Mr P letters 
about the payments and that he couldve seen this information online.
Mr P brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt think  Lloyds  had made a mistake  
or acted  unfairly.  He thought Lloyds  had acted in line with the account  terms and conditions 
and had given  Mr P the required  two months  notice  before making the credit limit change. 
The adjudicator also thought Mr P couldve checked  his statements on line and that Lloyds  
had sent him letters  about  the late payment.
Mr P accepts that Lloyds  has acted  in line with its terms and conditions and also accepts he 
made a mistake by not making the payment. But he says there was no attempt to contact 
him and as a long standing customer of about  40 years  he deserved to be treated in a 
fairer way.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
conclusion as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr P will be disappointed  by my 
decision.
Im satisfied having looked at the account  terms and conditions  that Lloyds is entitled to 
make changes to Mr Ps credit  limit. Im also satisfied that Lloyds has given Mr P the 
required notice and that he accepts Lloyds entitled to make  those sorts of commercial  
decisions. There is also no dispute here that Mr P accepts he missed the payments. The two 
issues Mr P raises are that Lloyds couldve made  attempts to speak to him by other means 
and it shouldve considered his position  as a long standing  customer.
I think Lloyds did take reasonable  steps  to contact Mr P by writing to him. I appreciate  Mr P 
may have  some difficulties in receiving his mail. But I cant  fairly hold Lloyds responsible for 
that and Ive not seen any evidence that it had been  told to communicate  with Mr P by 
alternative means. Im also satisfied that Mr P couldve  seen his account statements on line. 
I appreciate Mr P had money in other accounts.  But I dont think  Lloyds has made  a mistake 
here and I think the payment was Mr Ps responsibility.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration, that hes been  a Lloyds customer  for over 40 years  and 
that doesnt appear to have been  considered  by it. But whilst Im sorry to disappoint  Mr P 
those are not matters  I can fairly interfere in. Im satisfied those sorts of decision are for a 
business to make when  exercising its commercial judgement. 
Ref: DRN88330592my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8833059