K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think YBS mis-sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs A for the following reasons:
I think YBS made Mr and Mrs A aware they had a choice in taking PPI, and they 
subsequently chose to take it.
I dont think YBS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A. So it needed to make sure 
it gave them enough information about the PPI so they could make an informed 
choice.
I thought it was possible that the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI 
might not have been as clear as it should  have. But I didnt think  clearer information 
wouldve stopped  them  from buying  the PPI, given  their circumstances at the time.
my findings
YBS replied  to my provisional decision to say it didnt have anything  further to add.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  reply to my provisional decision, so Ive assumed they dont have any 
additional information for me to consider.
Because of this, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. Ive attached  this to the 
bottom of this final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81041362copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in 1997, They paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy and it would have  covered them for up to 12 months in the event that Mr or Mrs A couldnt  work 
through accident, sickness or if they lost their jobs.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs A disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case. 
I dont currently think that Mr and Mrs As PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
I think  that YBS made Mr and Mrs A aware  they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they 
chose to take it. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form for PPI and I can see that its been completed and signed  by 
Mr and Mrs A. I can see that theyve chosen to buy full accident, sickness and unemployment cover 
and to cover  both of them for up to 12 months per claim  there were  also other option available.  So I 
think they agreed to buy the cover. 
Mr and Mrs As mortgage  started in 1993, so I also think  theyd have known that they didnt have to 
buy a PPI policy with this particular  mortgage.
YBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for them. But 
it did have to give Mr and Mrs A clear information about the PPI so they could decide  for themselves  if 
they wanted to buy the cover.
Its possible the information YBS gave  Mr and Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they were affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Mr and Mrs A say they would have had an unusually  generous level of sick pay available  to them.  
Theyve also said they would have  had other ways of being able to make repayments to the mortgage 
if they werent working. But this doesnt  currently change my decision. We asked Mr and Mrs A for 
more information about these things, but they didnt  get back to us. The PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay or other means Mr and Mrs A might have had. So I currently think  that Mr and 
Mrs A had a need for the PPI.
Ref: DRN81041363Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs As comments, including what  theyve said about  their other 
complaint being upheld, so they think this one should be too. Mr and Mrs A didnt  complain to us 
about their other  complaint   so I havent looked into this. Or the reasons  YBS upheld  it. When  we 
look at complaints, we look at each complaint on its individual  merits, and having done so, I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
I now invite  Mr and Mrs A and YBS to give me any further information  they want me to consider 
before I make my final decision. This must be provided  to us by 5 December 2018.
Ref: DRN8104136