K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)  
handled their claim for subsidence on their home insurance. 
background
Mr and Mrs F purchased a property in 2014  and took out home insurance  with LV. In 2015 
they noticed there was damp  and cracks  developing in a number  of rooms in the property. 
They instructed an engineer to investigated, who concluded the property was suffering from 
subsidence. They made a claim on their home  insurance.
LV sent out a contractor  to look at the damage. The contractor said there  were  a number of 
possible causes of the subsidence but thought the damp problem was due to maintenance 
and not subsidence. 
In November 2015 Mrs F and her young  daughter moved out of the house to stay with 
relatives, as they had concerns that the damp  was impacting  their daughters  health.  They  
informed LV and in December it agreed to pay for alternative accommodation as a gesture of 
good will. 
Over the months that followed, LV carried out further investigatory work  and concluded the 
subsidence was caused by a nearby  tree. The tree was subject to a Tree Preservation Order  
and was located within the grounds of a school. It took some  time for the order  to be lifted 
and to agree  a suitable time for the tree to be removed with the school. The tree removal  
was completed in October 2016. 
After this, monitoring of the property continued  to ensure it had stabilised. In September 
2017 LV were satisfied that it was stable and it compiled a schedule  of works for the repairs.  
Mr and Mrs F also instructed their own engineer to put together  a schedule of works. This 
was significantly more  expensive than LVs schedule. There was some discussion about the 
correct settlement and in July 2018  LV increased its offer and a cash settlement was 
accepted.
Throughout the claim Mr and Mrs F raised a number of complaints, which  LV responded to 
with final response  letters.  They were as follows:
28 January 2016: Mr and Mrs F complained about the service  provided by LVs loss 
adjuster and that there was no provision  of alternative accommodation when  they first 
told LV that their daughter  was unwell. 
19 September 2016: Mr and Mrs F complained  about the time it took to arrange the 
removal of the tree causing the subsidence. 
9 March 2018: Mr and Mrs F complained about the amount of the cash  settlement 
offered and handling of the claim since September 2016. 
31 July 2018:  Mr and Mrs F complained that they had suffered poor health as a result of 
how LV handled  their insurance claim. 
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs F brought their complaints to this service.  They  said they were  
unhappy with the handling of the claim throughout  and werent  satisfied with the cash 
settlement that had been offered. 
Ref: DRN89232602Our investigator said that we are only able to look at complaints that come to us within  six 
months of the final response, and LV didnt give consent for this to be extended. So he said 
the only complaint  we were able to consider was the one addressed in final response letter 
dated 31 July 2018. I have previously  issued a jurisdiction decision confirming this position. 
Our investigator also considered the issues addressed  in the final response from 31 July 
2018. He said that some of the issues raised  had been addressed  in previous responses 
and LV had added nothing new to its response, so he couldnt  comment  on these aspects.  
However our investigator didnt think LV needed to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  with the assessment, so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of issues raised  in this complaint that I am unable  to comment  on. As, 
while Mr and Mrs F raised them with LV as part of the complaint addressed  in the final 
response letter, LV didnt  change its position on the complaint points and directed Mr and 
Mrs F back to previous final responses. As I have already  concluded those responses are 
out of our jurisdiction, I cant comment further on the merits of those complaint points.  
This means  the only element  of the complaint I am able to consider is the impact the claim 
has had on Mr and Mrs Fs health. As this was the only new complaint point addressed  by 
LV in the final response. 
While I dont doubt the claim has been stressful. It has lasted for a number of years  and has 
left Mr and Mrs F uprooted from their home  for a significant amount of time. And I have no 
reason to doubt that the stress this caused had an impact on their health. 
However it is the role of this service to look at the actions of LV in this claim,  and to put 
things right where things  have gone wrong.  Here, in order to conclude  that LV should take 
action to put things right,  Id need to be persuaded that LVs actions directly impacted Mr and 
Mrs Fs health.  Rather than it just being a result  of a stressful and lengthy subsidence claim. 
And Ive not seen  evidence that persuades me this is the case.  
So while it is clear this has been  a difficult few years  for Mr and Mrs F and their family  and 
the claim has caused them a lot of distress. As Im unable to conclude  that LVs actions 
directly impacted their health, it wouldnt be fair to ask LV to take any action.
Its worth  noting that since the complaint came to us LV agreed to pay Mr and Mrs F £500  to 
make up for the distress caused  by not offering alternative accommodation sooner, even 
though this was addressed in a previous  final response. As this isnt part of the complaint we 
have the power  to decide on, I wont comment on whether this is a fair resolution or not. 
However should Mr and Mrs F wish to accept this offer they should contact LV directly to 
arrange payment.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Ref: DRN89232603Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2021.  
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8923260