K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) continually sent her marketing 
information to take out a credit card after she said she asked them to stop. Shes  also 
unhappy the marketing suggests  she has a poor credit history when she believes her credit  
rating to be above  average.  She wants Capital One to stop the mailing and to apologise for 
not already doing so.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 6 February 2019   a copy of which  is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
Capital One didnt provide  any further information for me to consider and said it accepted the 
provisional decision. But Miss B didnt accept what Id said and in summary  she said in 
response:
She sent three letters to Capital One asking it to stop sending marketing material  and 
thinks it very unlikely all three letters would have been lost. She said it would have  
been excessive  to obtain proof of delivery  for such letters and thinks that Capital One 
should have to prove it didnt get the letters.
She has dealt with a number of other  businesses  that have sent direct mail to her 
recently and all of them  stopped mailing her when she sent letters asking them  to do 
so.
She noted that the marketing material that was sent to her was personalised and 
therefore wasnt generic. She was concerned that if this material  had gone astray the 
inference that she had bad credit would have become  public knowledge.
The marketing material specifically referred  to a highest and lowest credit limit. 
However, it also said the limit may be higher once the application  is successful 
which would seem to be inconsistent  with what the invitation offered.
She didnt think Capital Ones apology was sufficient. 
She thought  Capital  Ones  marketing was poorly  planned and targeted. And it only 
took notice of her request to stop sending the material when she complained  to this 
service.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I can see from Miss Bs response  
that she believes very strongly that Capital One hasnt acted fairly  and should  have stopped  
sending marketing material when  she asked it to, and should  ensure its material  is better 
planned and targeted.
And I can assure Miss B Ive considered her responses very carefully.  But I have to make a 
decision on the evidence  thats available and where  its not conclusive  what  I think was 
Ref: DRN85652602most likely to have happened. And theres  no evidence here for me to say that Capital One 
did receive the letters Miss B said she sent.  I appreciate her point that its unlikely that three 
letters would have  gone astray  and as I said previously I dont dispute that Miss B did send  
them. But I dont have  any evidence to be able to conclude Capital One did receive them 
and ignored the instruction. From  time to time we all experience some inconvenience when 
dealing with financial firms  and I can understand Miss Bs frustration about the situation, 
but I cant safely say Capital One deliberately didnt act on the letters  she sent. 
Miss B has also commented  on Capital  Ones marketing and how inappropriate  it was. Shes 
pointed to the fact that her invitation was personalised  and therefore should  have been more 
appropriate to her circumstances and not infer she had poor credit. 
Ive seen the mailshot that Capital One sent to Miss B and it does state prepared  for with a 
space for her first name. And Capital One was able to do this because it knew Miss Bs name  and 
address. But it didnt know anything more about her financial situation  and so therefore couldnt 
be expected to send a mailshot that was any more specific for her circumstances. I think  it would 
have been able to tailor  its products  specifically  to Miss B if shed had expressed an interest  in a 
card and gone through an application process  but I dont think  Capital One was suggesting 
Miss B or any else involved  in the campaign  had poor credit  just that it offered this type of card. 
Miss B was free to decide if this was an offer she was interested  in or if she wanted to ignore it.
I have some sympathy for Miss Bs position  here and I can understand why she thinks Capital 
One deliberately  didnt  act on her request until she brought her complaint to us. But ultimately  
here I dont  think Capital One did anything wrong  with the mailing it sent out and I cant safely  say 
it ignored Miss Bs request to stop sending it to her. 
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Bs 
complaint against  Capital  One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85652603copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss B complains  that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital  One) continually  sent her marketing 
information to take out a credit card after she said she asked them to stop. Shes also unhappy  the 
marketing suggests  she has a poor credit  history when she believes  her credit rating to be above  
average. She wants Capital One to stop the mailing  and to apologise for not already doing  so.
background
Capital One included Miss B in three mailing  campaigns for one of its credit cards  in 
June and October  2017 and January 2018.
Miss B said she responded on three occasions asking  Capital One to stop sending the marketing 
material. Capital One said it never received those responses but confirmed that when it was made  
aware of Miss Bs complaint  in 2018, she was taken off the mailing list on 3 April 2018.  Miss B doesnt 
appear to have received any mailings  since  that date.  
Miss B says she asked  Capital One to stop sending this material after each communication was 
received. But further marketing  material  was sent. Shes also objected  to the inference that the card 
was for someone with possible bad credit whereas she believed her credit rating was good.  She said 
Capital One hadnt paid due care and attention when it prepared its mailings.
Capital one said it only sent marketing to people  who had agreed to receive it from its third party 
partners. It also explained that the details of any credit card it offered  Miss B would only be finalised 
after a successful application. However,  it did apologise for any distress it may have caused and said 
Miss Bs details had now been  removed  from its mailing  list. It also provided contact details for the 
mailing preference service.  Miss B didnt accept this outcome and referred  the complaint to this 
service.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said that Capital One should  pay £75 for the 
inconvenience it caused  Miss B in taking nearly  one year to deal with her requests to stop sending her 
marketing correspondence.
Capital One didnt agree because it said there was no proof Miss B actually sent the letters. And even 
if she did, it had no record of receiving them. So the case has been passed to me to consider. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B doesnt dispute  that she may have previously given Capital  Ones  partners authority to send 
her marketing material. What shes complaining about is that it carried  on sending her information 
when she asked it to stop. And also that it didnt respect that she had a good credit history by offering  
her the chance to take out a credit card suitable  for people with an impaired credit file. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter  that Miss B said she sent in July 2017 which said would you please stop 
sending me offers for your credit card. And I note Miss B said she previously told Capital One to stop 
mailing her. And Ive carefully considered these points. But theres  no evidence  of these  requests. I 
note Miss B said she may have responded on the same invitations that Capital One sent her. Capital  
One says it hasnt got any record of receiving these responses including the letter she has provided  a 
copy of. 
In the absence  of any documentary  evidence to show Capital One received the correspondence Miss 
B said she sent, Ive had to make a decision based  on what  I believe most  likely did happen. 
Ref: DRN85652604Miss B has provided a copy of the letter she sent so I think it was most  likely sent and I dont dispute 
that Miss B returned  the previous correspondence with a note saying she didnt want to receive 
similar communication in the future.  But I cant say for sure that it was received by Capital One or that 
Capital One deliberately ignored  it. Miss Bs instruction  was a fairly  common request of its type so I 
would have expected Capital One to have acted upon the request if it had received it. And I see no 
reason why it wouldnt have done so as it actioned her request in a timely way when  it received her 
complaint in 2018. So on balance  I think its more  likely these letters werent  received.  That means  it 
wouldnt be fair for me to say that Capital  One acted unfairly here. It may be that the letter was lost in 
the post, for example,  but thats not something thats Capital Ones  fault.
Miss B has also complained  that Capital One sent her details of a credit card aimed at building credit 
when she has a good credit  history. She says it had a duty of care to be more accurate in its 
marketing. But on a day to day basis we all receive  information that isnt relevant  to us; marketing 
material is by its very nature  generic and not tailored to specific individuals. Capital  One wasnt aware 
of Miss Bs personal  circumstances and I dont  think it had duty to be aware  of them for a general 
mailshot campaign. I dont think  Capital  One suggested Miss B couldnt have obtained  a better  credit  
card elsewhere,  it was simply  making her aware that it did offer this type of credit card.  
I have some sympathy with Miss Bs position here as I can appreciate that receiving unwanted   and 
potentially irrelevant  marketing material  can be frustrating. But theres  no evidence that Miss B had 
told Capital One not to send  her anything before it first did and Im not satisfied Capital Ones did 
receive Miss Bs responses to stop sending the material. So I cant  safely  say Capital  One has done 
anything wrong here. 
I note Capital  One did take Miss B off its mailing  list when it received her complaint from us. And 
theres no dispute that she hasnt  received any further correspondence. So Im not going  to ask 
Capital One to do anything  further as I think its now done what  its been asked to do.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  Miss Bs complaint against Capital One 
(Europe) plc.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8565260