K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Shoosmiths LLP hasnt provided her with the information she needed about her 
debts in a reliable, comprehensive  or timely manner.
background
Mrs R finds herself  in a difficult financial position.  Shoosmiths is acting for three  clients  who 
are trying to recover debts from her. Court action  has been taken with various consequences 
for Mrs R, including deductions from her wages  and restrictions  related to a property she has 
an interest in.
Mrs R is unhappy because she says the debts werent hers. And she told us the orders  
relating to her earnings and property were  put in place without notice. As Mrs R knows,  
because these matters  were the subject of court proceedings  this Service cant  deal with 
them. Of course, shes free to take further legal action in relation to these issues.
Mrs R had other concerns  which we can look into. She says Shoosmiths took too long to 
respond to her request for information  about  her debts and that what she received was 
incomplete and unreliable. Shoosmiths didnt think it had done  anything wrong.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mrs R disagreed  and so her complaint came to me 
to consider. I issued  my provisional decision in December 2018. As Ive not received any 
further information or arguments from either party I see no reason to depart from my initial 
conclusions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
I recognise Mrs Rs frustration in trying to get to the bottom of her financial affairs. At the 
time she was exploring the sale of her share of a property  and wanted  to understand how 
orders made by the courts  would affect  things.
Mrs Rs solicitor sought to clarify  information about  her debt position with Shoosmiths in May 
2017. At that time Shoosmiths was acting on behalf  of two clients  who were  pursuing her for 
debts. This appears to have been the case since 2014.
I can see there were exchanges between  Mrs Rs solicitor and Shoosmiths in June 2017 
about the status of the court restrictions related to the property she had an interest in. As a 
result of this to and fro, it materialised there was another company pursing Mrs R for a debt. 
And that the courts had made  orders in relation  to this as well.
The company which owned  this third debt contracted Shoosmiths  to act on its behalf in 
early August  2017. So it was only from this point it became  responsible for pursuing three of 
Mrs Rs debts on behalf of three  separate clients.
Ref: DRN88321102Shoosmiths sent Mrs Rs solicitor a schedule of the three debts  later in August 2017. This 
detailed the original lenders, the products, the date of the finance agreements and the 
current outstanding  balance on each including expenses. It also noted outstanding sums  
would need to be paid in order for it to agree court restrictions on her property could be lifted.
As these  matters were  unfolding Mrs R raised a complaint with Shoosmiths because of the 
delay in getting the information she needed. For example, I can see it took several  weeks for 
the schedule of debts and advice  about  the court restrictions to be provided. But there were 
various factors which I think  necessarily  meant  things were going to take time to sort out.
Mrs Rs debts stem from agreements set up several  years ago with different lenders. These 
lenders ultimately  sold on her accounts  to different debt management organisations.  The 
exchanges with Mrs Rs solicitor brought to light that another company was pursuing another  
debt against her. And Shoosmiths  ended up acting for this client as well.
So, while I recognise  Mrs Rs frustration about how long it took to get the information she 
needed, given  the number  of parties  involved and the dynamic circumstances, its not 
surprising it wasnt a simple process. As Mrs R told us, even  her own solicitor  struggled to 
get to the bottom of things. Ive not seen anything  which makes me think  Shoosmiths were 
being unresponsive.
Mrs R has told us she thinks there are gaps and inaccuracies with the information 
Shoosmiths provided. I cant see these concerns were raised at the time her solicitors were  
given the schedule of debts. Our investigator  thought the problem mayve been  because she 
was still making some  payments and so the balances wouldve been changing. Mrs R 
doesnt think this explained things as the information differed from letters she still received 
from her former lenders.
Ive spoken to Shoosmiths  and it says its now provided Mrs R with copies of two of the three 
finance agreements  she entered  into and its working with its client to get hold of the third.  It 
also said whenever it communicates with her about  any of her three  outstanding  debts  it 
provides her with a current  balance figure.
Shoosmiths confirmed  Mrs R can call or email to request  the balance,  a breakdown of the 
balance or a statement of account  at any time. These should  provide her with a clear audit 
trail of her position  from when the court orders were  made to the present date taking into 
account payments  shes made and any fees.
I think the next step here is for Mrs R to seek this detailed breakdown  of her balance  and a 
statement of account  showing  information from the point  at which the court orders  were  put 
in place. If after reviewing  this information  she thinks there are errors,  in the first instance  
she should set out her concerns and reasoning  for Shoosmiths. 
For clarity,  the courts have already determined what the original debts outstanding are. If 
Mrs R wants to challenge the veracity of these figures she will need to pursue legal action.
Mrs R was also unhappy with how long it took Shoosmiths to deal with her complaint. It 
didnt respond  to her with its final response until November 2017.  Unfortunately, under our 
rules I can only consider complaints about regulated activities  or activities ancillary  to these 
(such as advice, collection of payments, debt collection, etc.) Complaint-handling isnt a 
regulated activity, and it isnt ancillary to a regulated  activity, so it doesnt fall within  the 
scope of our rules. That means I cant consider this specific matter.
Ref: DRN88321103my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8832110