K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) has 
charged him premiums for a period when his life assurance policy was suspended. 
background
In 2005, Mr H took out a life assurance  policy with L&G. The policy  was scheduled  to run 
until 2025. Mr H paid the premiums on the third day of each month  by direct debit.
In December 2016, the premium payment failed because the direct debit instruction had 
been cancelled.  L&G wrote to Mr H to tell him of this. Over the course of the next two 
months, Mr H made several  attempts to set up a new direct debit instruction but these failed 
for various  reasons. L&G wrote to him each time to explain the payment had not been  made.
In February 2017,  Mr H called L&G and made a card payment to cover the premiums  which  
had been due in December 2016,  January 2017 and February 2017. He sent L&G a further 
direct debit instruction
L&G was unable to accept the new instruction because it wasnt dated. L&G says it wrote to 
Mr H on 20 February  2017 to make him aware of this.
On 19 May 2017, L&G wrote to Mr H to explain his policy  had been  cancelled due to non-
payment of premiums. However, it invited him to pay the outstanding premiums  to reinstate 
the policy, subject  to the satisfactory completion of a declaration of health form.  
Mr H contacted L&G to say hed not received the letter of 20 February 2017 and so was 
unaware there had been a problem with his premium payments.  He asked for his policy to 
be reinstated and completed the declaration of health form. However, because he was 
undergoing some medical investigations, L&G wouldnt  agree to reinstate his policy until 
these were complete.  It eventually agreed to this on 7 July 2017.
Mr H complained that L&G had failed to advise him sooner that his payments were overdue  
and that his policy would be cancelled. He said if it had done so, he would have immediately 
taken action to rectify  the situation.
L&G acknowledged that its letter of 19 May 2017  should have been sent over two weeks 
earlier, when 60 days had passed  since the first unpaid premium. It also acknowledged it 
had been poor in handling his complaint. It offered £100 compensation for these service 
failings. It also offered to refund one months  premium (£105) as a goodwill  gesture.
Mr H was unhappy at L&Gs  response. He thought it should refund a further four months 
premiums (£422) to reflect the time he was without cover.  He referred  his complaint to us.
Our casework team manager  recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her 
opinion, L&G had acted  reasonably.
Mr H didnt accept her findings. He considered that L&G should  have  contacted him as soon  
as his payment  became overdue rather than wait until over 60 days  later by which time the 
policy had been  cancelled. He felt he shouldnt have  to pay for the period  he was not 
covered by the policy.
Ref: DRN88205172In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Mr H paid his premiums  monthly in advance. The policy states that if premiums  are not paid 
within 30 days of each  due date, the policy will lapse and L&Gs liability will cease.
Mr H had paid premiums  to provide cover until 2 March 2017. He failed to pay the next 
premium due on 3 March 2017 and so, 30 days later, the policy lapsed. If Mr H had died 
during this period, Im satisfied he would still have been covered by the policy.
Mr H therefore wasnt covered by the policy from 2 April 2017 until 7 July 2017, when L&G 
agreed to reinstatement  and he paid the outstanding  premiums.  This is a period of slightly 
over three months rather than five months as suggested by Mr H. Given that L&G has 
agreed to refund one months  premium as a gesture of goodwill, I estimate the amount which 
Mr H paid for the period he was without cover  to be approximately £228. I say this just to 
clarify the amount which I think Mr H could legitimately claim he should be refunded  if I were  
to find L&G at fault.
The policy places no obligation  on L&G to notify  policyholders about missed  payments. 
However, I would  expect an insurer to take steps  to make the policyholder  aware if they 
hadnt paid a premium,  in case this was inadvertent. L&G has explained it has a system in 
place whereby a letter  is sent within 60 days of the missed payment (in which  case 
reinstatement can take place without  the need  for a declaration of health) and a further  letter 
is sent when it is 60 days since the missed  payment  (at which point a declaration of health  
needs to be completed  before reinstatement can take place). I acknowledge that L&G hasnt 
specified exactly when  the first letter  should be sent and this letter,  or at least  the extract I 
have seen, doesnt specifically warn when  the policy will lapse (or has lapsed). I therefore 
think L&Gs  process  could  arguably be tighter to give the policyholder  full warning. However, 
I think it is nonetheless  reasonable.
In Mr Hs case, L&G says the first letter was sent on 20 February 2017. Mr H says he didnt 
receive this but L&G has provided evidence from its systems from which  I conclude  it is likely 
it was sent. The letter was therefore sent before the payment  had actually been  missed  but 
given that the direct  debit instruction wasnt dated  it was inevitable that the payment would 
fail unless Mr H took remedial action.
It is unfortunate that Mr H didnt receive the letter in question. And L&G didnt send a further  
letter once the payment  had actually been  missed.  But I think  by sending the letter on 20 
February 2017, L&G had taken reasonable steps to place Mr H on notice that there was a 
problem with his premium payments. I also might have expected  Mr H to have independently 
decided to check the March 2017  payment was successfully made given the problems which 
had been experienced  with his direct  debit payments over the previous three months.
L&G wrote again  to Mr H in May 2017 and this time he did receive the letter.  However, due 
to the time which had elapsed he was now required to complete the declaration  of health 
form before  reinstatement  could take place.  I can understand  how Mr H was taken aback on 
receiving this letter given  that hed not received the earlier  letter. However, Im satisfied that 
Ref: DRN88205173L&G had acted fairly and it wasnt obliged to offer Mr H reinstatement  without the need to 
complete the declaration of health or without him paying the outstanding premiums.
In summary,  I have some sympathy with Mr H and think L&Gs  process in respect of 
notifying policyholders of missed premiums could be tightened. However, I think that on 
balance he was given  sufficient notice that there  was a problem with his direct debit 
payments. I therefore dont think L&G is required,  having reinstated  his policy, to refund  his 
premiums for the period  he was effectively without cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8820517