K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2008. Mr S and Ms H have said Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them  the PPI.
background 
Mr S and Ms H took out a mortgage in 2001. In 2008 they took out a further advance   and  
at this point a PPI policy was also taken out. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.
This was a joint mortgage the policy covered Mr S for 70% of the benefit (£315) and Ms H 
for 30% of the benefit (£135) for accident, sickness and unemployment. In the event of them 
making a successful claim it would have  paid out their monthly  benefit  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr S and Ms H disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S and Ms H case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr S and Ms H cant remember how the policy was sold. Santander has said the policy  was 
sold in a phone call which I think is correct  based  on the information Ive been  provided. 
Santander had to make  it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr S and Ms H had to agree to 
take it out. Mr S and Ms H have said they were not aware  they had the cover.
Santander no longer has a copy of the call, which is understandable considering how long 
ago this was. But it has provided a copy of its sales script which  it says its representative 
would have used  during  the phone call. Whilst I dont  know  exactly what was said during 
the conversation, I dont have any persuasive evidence  to make me think the call didnt 
follow this structure.  This document prompts the representative to explain that the policy 
was optional and directs them to obtain Mr S and Ms H consent  before setting up the policy. 
So I think they would  have known that they didnt need to take out the cover. 
Santander has also sent us a copy of the welcome  letter that was sent to Mr S and Ms H 
after the policy was arranged. It refers to Mr S and Ms H choosing to take out the cover and 
refers to the direct debit payments that would be taken. If Mr S and Ms H didnt know about  
this cover or hadnt  agreed to take out the policy  in the phone  call, I think they would have 
questioned this with Santander  when they received this documentation or when these 
payments started  to be deducted from their bank account.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Santander  made it clear the policy 
was optional and that Mr S and Ms H agreed  to take it out with a 70% of the benefit to      
Mr M and 30% of the benefit  to Ms H, knowing they could refuse it if they didnt want it.
Ref: DRN87056622Santander has said that it didnt recommend the PPI. The call script  provided by Santander 
directs the representative  to confirm no advice is being provided and so I think  it would 
have been made clear  this sale was being  completed on a non-advised basis. This means  
Santander didnt  have to check if the policy was right for them  but it did need  to make sure 
that Mr S and Ms H got the information  they needed to decide  for themselves if the policy  
was right for them.
Whilst the call script  provided  by Santander  does show that the representative explained the 
costs of the policy to Mr S and Ms H during the phone call, I dont know  if all of the 
information provided by Santander was as clear  as it should have been.  But as Ive 
mentioned before, I think Mr S and Ms H chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And I think it would have been useful to them  if something  went  
wrong. And Ive not seen anything to make me think the policy  wasnt affordable  for them.  
So I dont  think  that better  information  about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover.
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr S and Ms H repayments for up to 12 months per claim if 
they became too ill to work, or if they became unemployed. It wouldve paid out in addition  to 
any sick pay they had. And it wouldve paid out on top of any redundancy payment they may 
have got if they lost their job. And as there  couldve been serious  consequences  of not 
keeping up repayments  on a debt secured their home, if Mr S and Ms H couldnt work or lost 
their jobs then the PPI meant their monthly  mortgage payments wouldve been me. So I 
think the PPI policy  couldve been  helpful  to them. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S and Ms H. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Santander said that the level of commission and profit share  it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it has offered to refund  the extra Mr S and Ms H paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost 
of PPI premium. It will also include 8% per year simple interest  to compensate  Mr S and    
Ms H for any time they were out of pocket.  
Mr S and Ms H say there have been  other  court cases in relation to non-disclosure of 
commission where consumers have received everything back. So they think Santander 
should refund all of the money  paid for the PPI. 
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr S and Ms Hs complaint is the law. But I also need to take into 
account relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Santander has made Mr S and Ms H an offer of compensation in relation  to the 
level of commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. 
Ref: DRN87056623I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr S and Ms H and their complaint to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different  if 
the remedies set out in the FCAs rules  dont lead to fair and reasonable redress  for Mr S 
and Ms H. But there isnt anything about Mr S and Ms Hs complaint  or circumstances that 
suggest the redress paid by Santander  isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Santanders offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr S and Ms H any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Santander should also pay back  to Mr S and Ms H 
any extra  interest  they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr S and Ms H the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr S and Ms H 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S and Ms H can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S and Ms H.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S and Ms H any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8705662