K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Santander UK plc didnt send her a cash ISA maturity letter and also 
complains about  it dealt with her complaint.
background
Miss C says her cash ISA matured in June 2018 but she didnt receive a maturity letter and 
Santander didnt  contact her about it until April 2019. She says she complained  to Santander  
but she didnt  receive  a promised call back and also complains about how she was treated. 
Miss C would like compensation for whats happened.
Santander accepts  Miss C didnt receive the maturity letter but says its applied the same 
interest rate to her money.  It says it tried to contact Miss C but couldnt get through. It also 
says it did try and speak to Miss C in 2018  about  this but she didnt want  to discuss  the 
issue.
Miss C brought  her complaint to us but our investigator thought  Santander had dealt fairly 
with it. He didnt  think Miss C had suffered financially and also thought Santander had tried 
to speak to Miss C about matters in 2018  but she had said she didnt want  to discuss her 
accounts. The investigator thought it difficult to conclude that Santander  had been  rude to 
Miss C or that it hadnt tried to contact her.
Miss C doesnt accept that view and says she visited her local branch and didnt receive the 
promised call backs. She says unless she receives compensation then she is going  to 
withdraw her money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Miss C will be disappointed  by 
my decision.
There is no real question  or dispute here that Santander should  have sent Miss C an ISA 
maturity letter in 2018. But Im satisfied Santander  has explained why it didnt send the letter  
and has acted fairly by paying Miss C the same amount of interest that she would have 
received. So I dont think Miss C has lost out financially as a result  of her not receiving the 
letter and I think on balance that even if Miss C had received the letter its likely that she 
would have kept her money in the account. I say that as I can see that the account has been 
opened for many years. I also think that whilst Santander  should have sent the letter, Miss C 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware of when her ISA matured. And I can see from 
Santanders records that it did try and speak to Miss C about  her account in 2018. 
I appreciate Miss C says Santander didnt call her as promised and that its staff were rude. 
But I can also see that Santander doesnt accept  that was the case.  So in those 
circumstances I cant be sure what  took place and so I cant  fairly conclude  that either sides 
version is more likely to be the correct  one.
Overall Im satisfied that Santander has made  sure Miss C didnt lose out financially as a 
result of what took place.  I appreciate Miss C says she will withdraw her money unless 
Santander pays her compensation. But I cant fairly  order  that Santander pay her any 
compensation for the reasons Ive explained and so it would be up to Miss C if she wishes  to 
take that course of action. 
Ref: DRN82862402my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8286240