K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about Wesley  Thomas Charles Dixon (Dixon Associates). He isnt 
happy about the way it dealt with the transfer  of a commercial motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr M looked to take over an insurance policy that was in his grandfathers name. Mr M was 
taking over the ownership and running  of a policy and business  that was previously run by 
his grandfather.  He needed  the policy to be set up in his name or his business  name  and he 
paid Dixon  Associates £1,120.83 for cover. 
Mr M asked  Dixon  Associates for details about  cover  and the insurance certificate over a few 
months but he didnt  receive anything. He says that Dixon Associates told him that his cover 
was in place. It told him who he was insured  with (which  wasnt the same company as his 
grandfathers policy)  and that it was trying to get the confirmation he required.
Dixon Associates went onto say at a later stage that the policy  remained in his grandfathers 
name. And that Mr Ms payment was used as a part payment for the remainder of his 
grandfathers policy. It acknowledged that it cancelled his grandfathers property insurance 
policy. But says it kept his commercial motor insurance  policy going. And so, it wouldnt 
refund the payment from Mr M and he complained  to this service about  this. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and upheld the complaint. He was satisfied  that 
Dixon Associates told Mr M that it would  set up a policy in his business name. And it 
confirmed a policy was set up in his business name  when it wasnt. So he thought that Dixon  
Associates should  refund  the premium paid and that it should pay him £100 for the stress 
and inconvenience  all this has caused  him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain  why.
Although I understand Dixons position.  I dont  think that there is sufficient evidence to show  
that Mr M was aware that a new policy wouldnt be set up or that cover wouldnt be 
transferred into his or his companys name.  And that the money he paid would  simply be put 
towards his grandfathers  policy that he believed was cancelled,  as opposed to go towards 
his own policy. 
Ive considered the information provided from both sides and it is clear  that Mr M thought 
that his company was placed on cover. He continually asked for the policy documentation 
and Dixon  Associates confirmed that the cover  was in place. Indeed,  it told Mr M that his 
policy had been  placed with a particular insurer when in fact it hadnt. 
I know Dixon Associates feels that Mr Ms payment has been  used to contribute towards his 
grandfathers policy and that he was aware  of this. But the emails and documentation dont 
support that position. As far as Mr M was concerned his grandfathers  policy was cancelled,  
and he wasnt directly  linked to that policy.  And Mr M clearly wanted  his own cover, so I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  for his payment to be put towards  payment for his 
grandfathers policy.
Ref: DRN89551822Overall, and given the emails and notes provided, I think  it is clear that Mr M thought that his 
payment was for his own policy or the transfer  of his grandfathers policy into his name.  As 
such, I dont think  it would be fair for Dixon Associates  to use his payment for any other 
purpose. 
So, as Dixon Associates didnt set up a policy for Mr M as he requested,  I think  the fair and 
reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case,  is for it to refund Mr Ms 
payment. It should also pay interest at our usual rate for the time Mr M has been without the 
money and £100  for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Wesley Thomas 
Charles Dixon to pay Mr M £1,120.83 plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. And £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8955182