K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about charges applied to his account by Santander  UK Plc.
background 
Mr H said that he used  his Santander  debit card to pay for transport. He didnt have enough 
money in his current account to do that, but he said that Santander allowed the transaction 
to go through,  which it shouldnt  have done.  He said that then Santander applied charges 
which were out of all proportion to the payment that he was trying  to make. 
Mr H sent us letters that Santander had sent to him, demanding repayment of an 
unauthorised overdraft of around £250. Mr H said that he was finding it difficult to deal with 
Santanders collections department, who were relentless  and unsympathetic.  
Santander sent us statements for Mr Hs account. Those showed that in October 2017, Mr H 
used his card to pay for transport, and went into an unauthorised overdraft. Mr H then used 
the card again  for other transport costs. And he started to accrue  charges, including  for a 
failed cheque that he had written for £200. 
Mr H brought his account back into credit in November, but then used it again to pay for 
transport costs towards the end of November when  there wasnt enough money  in the 
account to cover that. So he went back  into unauthorised  overdraft. And shortly after this, he 
was also charged  for the unauthorised overdraft hed used the month  before. 
After the start of December 2017, Mr H seems  to have stopped using the card. His account 
was about £50 in debt then. He has since accrued additional charges. 
Santander wrote to Mr H in April 2018, and it gave  Mr H two options. It would refund all of 
the charges hed accrued  on the account,  and return his account to £1.50 in debt, if he 
agreed to pay that, and close the account. Or if he wanted to keep the account open, then it 
would refund £85 in fees to his account, and he would need  to pay the remaining debt.
Santander has since written to Mr H again,  to say that all the charges on his account have 
been accrued  in line with the terms and conditions of his account,  and to point out the part of 
his terms and conditions  which  explains  that if he tries to use his card when there isnt 
enough money in his account, that will be treated as a request for an unauthorised overdraft. 
Santander also said that overdraft fees had been  considered as part of a Supreme Court 
case in 2009,  and there were no grounds for challenging these as unfair. So it didnt think  it 
had to make  changes.
Mr H has also complained  about  the amount of phone calls hes been receiving from 
Santanders collections team. Santander wrote to him to say that the debt on his account 
was mounting up, and it was contacting him because it was in his best interests  to pay this 
money back. Santander said that it would pause  telephone calls to him for a short time, but it 
would still write to him about the debt. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Santander had acted in line with 
Mr Hs terms and conditions when it allowed a payment to go through, and put him into 
unauthorised overdraft. And all of the charges on his account had been applied  in line with 
the terms of his account. She said that Santander  didnt have to pay those charges back. 
Ref: DRN82294222Our adjudicator said that Santander had tried to contact Mr H to get him to pay this debt, but 
it had also offered to help him. She said that Mr H might want to contact Santander  to see if 
it would  still offer him a refund of fees, which it had previously offered  him. Santander  then 
contacted our adjudicator, and said it was still willing to refund one months fees to Mr H. It 
wanted to know  which month he would like it to refund.  
Mr Hs representative said hed like our help to arrange a settlement. He proposed  he could 
pay £55, and Santander could waive the rest of the fees. Our adjudicator put that offer to 
Santander, but Santander said it wouldnt accept  that now. Our adjudicator said that 
Santander had already  offered a refund  of one month of fees.  She thought that was fair. The 
next step for our service  was for an ombudsman to consider Mr Hs case. 
Mr H didnt want to pay the rest of the fees on his account, so the case  was passed to me for 
a final decision.  
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr H used his card when there wasnt enough  money in his account. As he had since 
found out, Santander treats this as a request for an unauthorised overdraft. And it charges 
for an unauthorised overdraft. I didnt think that Santander did anything  wrong  when it 
allowed the transactions  that Mr H made,  to pay for transport,  to go through.  And I didnt 
think it did anything wrong  when it then charged  him fees for an unauthorised overdraft. 
-Those charges had since increased considerably. I understood that Mr H owed a little 
over £250 on this account. 
-I didnt think that it was unfair for Santander  to apply the charges that are set out in the 
terms and conditions  of Mr Hs account. So I didnt think  that Santander would have to 
pay those charges back.  
-I could see that Santander  had made  two offers in this case  to close  Mr Hs account if 
he paid off the £1.50 which was the last unauthorised  overdraft payment on his account, 
or to refund a months charges and leave the account open. It offered £85 as a refund.  
-But when I wrote  my provisional decision,  Santander was only offering to refund one 
months charges. It was no longer offering  to write off all of Mr Hs debt if he paid back 
£1.50 and closed his account.
-I thought it was quite  unusual for a bank to make an offer like the offer that Santander 
first made  (to write off this debt if Mr H closed his account and paid £1.50) and then to 
withdraw that offer. 
-Because Santander  was prepared to accept  that, I thought that made  the offer that Mr H 
made after that, of paying £55 towards  this debt if Santander  would write off the rest, 
sound more reasonable. I thought it was also important to note that Mr Hs 
representative had told us that Mr H is vulnerable, he has struggled with this complaint, 
and that he has spent time recently caring  for a very elderly relative,  which meant hed 
had no income for a while.  
Ref: DRN82294223-With those points  in mind, I thought it was reasonable to ask Santander  to accept a 
payment of £55 from Mr H in full and final settlement  of this debt, and then to allow  
Santander to close this account. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr Hs representative agreed  with the proposal, although she offered some  additional  
comments. Santander wrote to query  my proposed  decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr Hs representative said that I hadnt included the frustrations of dealing  with Santanders 
collections department,  who wouldnt negotiate anything. 
I appreciate that it must have been  frustrating, after Santander had initially  offered to settle  
this debt on quite  favourable terms, to be told that it was no longer interested  in doing that. 
But Ive said that I dont think Santander  did anything wrong when it applied these fees to 
Mr Hs account. That means that Santander  could ask Mr H to pay that debt. I dont think it 
did anything wrong  just because it asked him to pay that. 
I havent seen  anything that suggests  to me that Santanders collections department  was 
unfair. If Mr H was disappointed or upset by how it has dealt with him, then I think that 
requiring Santander to accept a settlement which is a relatively small proportion  of Mr Hs 
overall debt would provide the right amount of compensation for that.
Santander also contacted us about  my provisional  decision. Before it responded formally to 
say whether it would  accept the decision, Santander asked whether I was also asking it to 
remove any adverse markers  related to this account  from Mr Hs credit file. I explained  to 
Santander that I hadnt asked for that as part of my provisional decision. I dont think  its unfair  
if Santander has told credit reference  agencies about the problems with Mr Hs account. 
Santander then said that it agreed with my proposed resolution.
Ill now make  the decision  I initially proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that if Mr H makes a payment of £55 to Santander UK Plc, then 
Santander UK Plc should accept that amount in full and final settlement of his debt, and then 
close his account.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8229422