K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1996  by post. The policy was 
taken out at the same time as Mr O applied for the credit card.  It gave him accident,  sickness 
and unemployment  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is inconclusive  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint, Ill explain why.
I think Barclays made Mr O aware the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I say this 
as Mr O indicated that he wanted it on his application form. And the options to select  or 
decline PPI were  set out with equal  prominence. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr O so it didnt need to check  if it was suitable  for 
him. This means  it was up to Mr O to decide  whether the policy was right for him given 
the other ways  he had to make his repayments.  
I agree  with Mr O that the information Barclays gave him about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But it seems  he chose to take out the policy  and so appears  to 
have wanted this type of cover. Mr O says if hed had more information  on the costs he 
wouldnt have bought it, asking how cover of only 10% of the outstanding balance  can be 
deemed as a relatively high benefit. Typically  credit  card PPI polices cover between  3% 
and 15% of the outstanding balance, and given the price of Mr Os policy I think it offered 
him good value.  Ive seen no evidence it wasnt affordable for him. 
Ref: DRN89722362Mr O also says he probably had around  £10,000 of savings and he was entitled to at 
least 6 months sick pay - and we havent  considered this. As Ive said, the bank didnt 
recommend the cover  so it didnt have to check it was suitable. But Ive thought  about  
whether I think his circumstances show that with more information he would have  made 
a different decision,  as he says. And given what I know  Im not persuaded he would  
have. If Mr O wasnt working  its likely  he would have had a number of other  priority  living  
expenses to cover and I think it would have been  useful for him that his credit card 
repayments were covered  for up to 12 months. 
He wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations in the policy terms. So overall 
I think its unlikely Mr O wouldve made  a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think its more likely he would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr O has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8972236