K820x#14complaintMrs E complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) has handled a claim under  
a building  insurance policy. 
background
Any reference I make  to Zurich within this decision includes that of its representatives or 
agents, unless  specified. Both parties are aware this claim is not resolved and there are 
ongoing discussions taking place about next steps.  Mrs Es initial complaint to our service  
concerned events leading up until the date Zurich issued its final response  letter  in February 
2018. I have considered what  has happened up until this date within this decision.  The 
events that have followed will form part of a complaint considered  separately  by our service.
In October  2017 Mrs Es home  suffered damage as a result of an escape of water at a
neighbouring property. She has home  insurance  with Zurich and made a claim under that 
policy. Zurich accepted the claim  and appointed  a loss adjuster (LA1).
In November 2017 Mrs E said the leak had stopped as the neighbour had found the source
and repaired  it. In December 2017  Zurich emailed  Mrs E to say it would appoint  Company A
to attend her home, take moisture readings, and install drying  equipment. They  would also
determine whether  strip out works were required. Within this email, Zurichs representative
noted Mrs E wanted to use the services of Company B, a local contractor she knew,  to 
undertake the remedial  works.
Zurich asked for a copy of Company  Bs estimate  for the works, including  how long it was
likely to take. It wanted a breakdown of the works  on a room by room  basis  which it would
review. It said once  it had this it would discuss alternative accommodation  with Mrs E. And it
said it would  appoint Company C to uplift and store her items.
Mrs E replied to say she would arrange a quote  from Company B and this would be sent in
January 2018.  Company A attended  on 3 January  2018. Shortly  after on 10 January 2018
Mrs E emailed Zurich to explain Company B would need to re-attend  to provide a follow up 
quote in light of new works to be carried out. At this time Mrs E mentioned  for the first time to
Zurich that she used a specialist  machine to help her breathe when she sleeps and therefore
would be unable to remain  in the property  during  works.
On 12 January 2018 Mrs E contacted Zurich and said she is unhappy with its LA1 and would
like to work with another company and handle things herself. A few days  later on 15 January
2018 she contacted Zurich again to ask questions  about the works due to be completed by
Company A, saying  she needed this information for Company  Bs quote. Mrs E then spoke
to Company A later that same day, who gave  her the information she needed.
The following  day Mrs E complained to Zurich, saying the information she needed  and asked
for couldve been shared with her quicker than it was. As a result,  she felt communication
had broken down.  Zurich  said it had asked LA1 to provide her with the scope of the required
works in each room.  It said she could  share  this with her own contractor, and then either
Zurich could complete  the works  or it would wait for a quote  from Mrs Es contractor (that it
would need to approve). It also said Company As report on next steps and drying would be
with them  shortly.
Ref: DRN87543372Mrs E complained, saying  she wasnt given  information  about settlement options. And she 
also felt LA1 had forced their service provider  on her and said she didnt want to work with 
them going  forward.  Zurich responded to say supplier reports  werent provided as standard  
unless requested. It also apologised if settlement options hadnt  been made  clear,  but said 
there was now a clear  plan of action for the claim. And to avoid delay, Zurich  said there was 
no benefit in appointing a second LA. Mrs E said shed found Company A inconsistent  and 
didnt want to work with anyone  the LA1 had engaged with on the project. 
On 22 January 2018 Zurich sent Mrs E the scope of repair and strip outworks  and said it 
would await the quotes for these works from Company B. It also said Company A would be 
using a target drying method  that uses warm air ducted along  walls, ceilings and floors to 
minimise disruption, and wouldnt  affect her using her machine in the evenings.
Zurich emailed Mrs E again  on 24 January 2018.  It said she could opt for a cash  settlement
for all or part of the works  required  but this would need to be discussed with its LA alongside
quotes. It also mentioned  two other  adjusters it used (LA2 and LA3).
Mrs E replied to say she had already explained  she would want to work with other
companies and not LA1. She said they had become an obstruction and a hindrance  and
appeared to be forcing her to use them. Mrs E said shed  had to chase for responses,  staff
had avoided her calls, as well as having attitude  within emails. She also said shed not been
given information  about the claim or settlement options upfront, LA1 had suggested its
nominated builders would provide better service than her own, and Zurich had unfairly
insisted she work with LA1.
Mrs E also questioned what medical  knowledge  Zurich had when determining its method of
drying wouldnt impact her breathing. Zurich replied later that day to say the option  of using
either LA2 or LA3 was open to Mrs E and it had previously tried to help progress the claim 
without starting the process again.  Mrs E reiterated  her thoughts  that a loss adjuster wasnt 
necessary and described Zurichs behaviour as bullying.
On 31 January 2018 Zurich said it and LA1 were still awaiting quotes for works from
Company B so it was unable to agree a cash settlement on this basis until it received these.
It also said a loss adjuster  would be required for this claim, and it would continue to use LA1
unless she decided on a new one. It also said if Mrs E provided the quote directly to Zurich,
it would  engage  with LA1 on her behalf.
Mrs E responded to say again she wouldnt want to engage with a loss adjuster and wanted
to use its complaints process.  On 9 February 2018  Zurich provided its final response  on the
complaint. It said it was entitled to use a loss adjuster under the policy,  and that it had been
awaiting information from Mrs E since 22 January 2018 to progress the claim.  It also
reiterated that it would change its choice  of adjuster on her request.
Mrs E complained to us outlining the points  mentioned above, and in addition  added:
Company C was subcontracted without her knowledge which was alarming. She also 
needed assurance her belongings  and musical equipment would be moved  correctly;
Zurich had tried to force her to use LA1 despite  her concerns;
LA1s decision to say the drying process  completed by Company A wouldnt  impact 
her health was unqualified and without  medical  opinion, and she would need to be in 
alternative accommodation while these works were carried out;
Zurich hadnt  provided her with a policy document or claims literature;
Ref: DRN87543373Mrs E felt a further quote for drying/strip out works wouldnt be needed as Company 
A had already  provided one;
Mrs E was unhappy shed received a letter from a solicitor  regarding recouping 
expenses when  her own claim hadnt  been  settled.
On 22 February 2018 Mrs E emailed our investigator to say she had obtained a second
quote from Company  B, but she hadnt sent this to Zurich given her objections  with LA1.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. He said Zurich 
couldve given Mrs E more information  than it did, and it shouldve given her greater 
reassurance about  the risk of works  to her health.  But he found Zurich had acted reasonably 
elsewhere across the life of the claim. He asked  Zurich  to pay Mrs E £100  in compensation. 
Zurich disagreed, saying Mrs E had been told she had the choice of cash  settlement from
October 2017, and this was shown by correspondence discussing Company B providing
quotes. It also said a timeframe/timeline  wouldnt have  been possible to give to Mrs E as this
wouldve been determined by her own contractor (Company B), of which she was seeking
quotes from. And it said in any case, it still hadnt  received  a quotation of works from Mrs E
so there  had been no impact as a result  as the claim had been unable  to progress.
Zurich also said it would  only discuss alternative  accommodation once a quote had been
provided by Mrs E, as this would detail the level of works required and level of disturbance.
Zurich also said it had seen nothing to suggest Mrs E had requested  copies of the policy.
And it said there was no evidence to support any risk to Mrs Es health within its proposal to
turn off its dryers at night when she would use her breathing equipment.
Mrs E also disagreed, reiterating her concerns about the handling  of the claim,  and how
Zurich and LA1 s staff and handling had made her feel. As a result, the complaint  was 
passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional thoughts on the 
complaint on 24 November 2020  explaining  why I didnt intend  to uphold the complaint. Ive 
included part of this decision below.
Zurichs use of a loss adjuster
Its clear to me that Mrs E feels a loss adjuster is not needed in handling  this claim. Shes
made general comments about  their usefulness as well as her experience  in overseeing  a
previous claim herself without issue.
Mrs Es policy says Zurich is entitled  to control and settle any claim". This is common  
across insurance policies of this nature  and means how a claim proceeds is within  Zurichs  
scope to decide. Zurich though must handle claims promptly  and fairly.
When a policyholder makes a claim,  it is typically the insurer  that will decide how to handle it.
In some cases, it may agree the policyholder can do this and may only require limited
information. However, when claims are more complex, and especially when visits to a
customers home are required, insurers will usually appoint a loss adjuster to handle and
investigate the claims  on the insurers behalf. So, on the face of it, Zurichs use of a loss
adjuster isnt outside what the policy allows or what Id expect to see in a claim such as this.
However, Id still expect Zurich to apply this control  fairly and reasonably.  In this case the
quotes for repair Ive been given suggest the repairs and works will cost in the tens of
thousands. As a result. Im satisfied Zurichs use of a loss adjuster is reasonable.
Ref: DRN87543374Handling of the claim
Mrs E has objected  to use LA1 as a loss adjuster in this case. Shes said she wasnt
confident in LA1s staff or any of the contractors  it had dealings with.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Es objections.  Shes described instances of staff avoiding
calls and taking an attitude  with her within emails regarding her choices to nominate  her own
contractors. Even if I had the telephone  calls to listen to, it would be difficult  for me to
establish whether  Mrs E calls were  being avoided. So Ive focused  on the email 
correspondence and letters I do have.
Having read through all of the correspondence  between Mrs E and Zurich, put simply, Ive
seen nothing to suggest its staff havent  tried to progress the claim in a professional  and
timely manner. In most  instances, Mrs Es emails were replied to within  an hour or so and
theres no indication  to me of an attitude  or ill intent aimed at her.
From what  Ive seen, Mrs E had to wait a few days for information  following her request
about Company  A on 12 January 2018. But this was resolved within three  days and I dont
consider this to be an unreasonable  timeframe  for providing information. Nor have  I seen
anything that I consider  amounts to bullying.
Mrs E has challenged Zurichs previous comments about not requiring alternative
accommodation during drying  and strip out works. And shes said Zurichs opinion  wasnt
supported by any medical expertise.  From  what Ive seen, Zurich outlined  that Company As
tools would  create as minimal an impact as possible.
While this is only a hypothetical point, as the drying ultimately didnt take place, I wouldve
expected Mrs E to be the party that provided  medical evidence  to support her concerns  that
the works  wouldve caused  her harm - as opposed to Zurich  demonstrating  it didnt. I say
this particularly as Zurich wouldnt have known of her condition in detail - or had access to
her medical records. While shes provided  notes from a clinic that show  she does indeed use
a machine that supports  her breathing while sleeping, this doesnt evidence whether or not
shed be in danger by living in an environment  while  drying  works  were ongoing.
Im satisfied it wouldve  been reasonable for Zurich to allow  LA1 to continue  to oversee the
claim - and Im not persuaded it made  any mistakes  beyond minor ones in places.  However,
Zurich still offered Mrs E the option  of selecting another loss adjuster soon after with the
intent of progressing  the claim. I think this was a positive step to try to progress the claim.
Mrs E refused this and explained again she didnt believe a loss adjuster was needed at all.
As Ive explained above, this isnt her decision to make and Im satisfied Zurich was acting
reasonably by offering this to her.
Its also clear  that Zurich requested quotes from Mrs E on numerous occasions  Ive outlined
within the background of this decision. Shes  told our service she wouldnt provide these to
Zurich until this matter  regarding LA1 was resolved which was her choice. This has led to the
claim not progressing.  In the circumstances I dont think it would be reasonable to hold
Zurich responsible for this as it has presented a way forward that Mrs E has declined.
Settlement options under the claim and policy literature
Ref: DRN87543375Mrs E says Zurich never explained her options  to cash settle  or part settle her claim. Having
looked over the email  chains between parties,  its clear to me that Mrs E mentioned using 
Company B to carry  out works as early as October  2018 soon  after the incident occurred. So
it seems to me most likely she was aware this was possible.
In any case, if there was any doubt,  this was clarified in an email sent in January 2019.  And
given the current  position of the claim, even if I were to agree that Zurich failed to explain
this to her at an earlier point, I cant see there has been any impact  as a result.
Mrs E has said she was never given a copy of her policy  book. Looking  through  the email
correspondence, its unclear to me when this specific request was made. Its possible this
was requested within a telephone call although its not reflected in the notes Ive seen. If
Zurich did fail to provide  a policy book when requested, the impact appears to me to be
minimal without any further  context  from Mrs E.
Other concerns
Mrs E has said Company C was appointed without notice and she had concerns about its
ability to move her belongings (including  expensive musical  instruments). Company C is a
professional removals  and storage company. Ive seen nothing  to support Mrs Es concerns
that they wouldnt have been  able to safely move her items.
Mrs E has said she was unhappy she received a letter from a solicitor  regarding Zurich
recouping costs from a third party. I have no concern about this and Im satisfied this was a
reasonable action for an insurer to take.
Mrs E has mentioned she was previously  told she may be able to make a retrospective
alternative accommodation claim. It will be for Zurich to consider this initially  as Ive been
presented with nothing to suggest this has previously been considered. As a result I would
ask Zurich to comment on its position  on this specifically in its response to this provisional
decision - outlining whether this is possible  and what it may need  from her if so.
I concluded that it was possible minor mistakes or delays may have taken  place, but I wasnt 
persuaded these  were  to the degree  that wouldve  led me to direct  Zurich to make  a 
compensatory award.  And that overall  Zurich  had handled the claim promptly  and fairly  in 
the circumstances and had offered Mrs E the option  of using a different loss adjuster when it 
didnt need to. 
I gave both parties until 8 December  2020  to reply  with anything further. That time has now 
passed and since  then Zurich has contacted Mrs E and has outlined  its position on 
alternative accommodation. Mrs E has responded, and Ive summarised  her points  below. 
Zurich had been inconsistent about what had happened and had suggested  the 
repair works were completed  in November 2017. Mrs E has said she cannot recall  
contacting Zurich at this time and has said she would have recalled this as the day it 
said a call took place  was significant  for her;
Zurich was aware of her concerns about  lost opportunities during the life of this claim 
and felt my decision should  consider everything  that has happened to date;
Mrs Es concerns were  wider than LA1 and included other representatives of Zurich;
Zurich hadnt  carried out an adequate risk assessment  when deciding  to decision to 
not provide her with alternative accommodation;  and
Ref: DRN87543376Mrs E reiterated some  of her earlier concerns about being given documentation and 
information about the claim.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Within Mrs Es response,  shes  focused on 
a date in November 2017 and what she believes  Zurich has said has happened. Its clear  to 
me that the repairs  to her home werent  carried out at this time. As Ive outlined in my 
provisional decision and above, my understanding  is Mrs E told Zurich around  this time that 
her neighbour had repaired  the cause of the leak, which in turn stopped any further leaks  
into Mrs Es home. It is on this basis Ive considered this complaint and whats happened.
Mrs E has challenged the specific date Zurich has said she informed it of the leak being 
stopped. But its unclear  to me what,  if any, bearing  or impact this has on the wider claim.  
And from what Ive seen, there isnt any. So, this hasnt changed my mind.
I understand Mrs Es feels my decision should  consider  everything  that has happened to 
date. But Ive outlined  these concerns will be considered separately by this service. I would 
also give assurance to Mrs E that Ive considered the actions of Zurich and all of its agents in 
handling this complaint  within my previous decision. 
In relation to the points Mrs E has made  around  documentation being provided  to her and a 
risk assessment around  her health,  Im satisfied Ive answered these points in detail within 
my provisional assessment. And Ive been  given nothing new to persuade  me otherwise.  It 
follows Im not departing  from the outcome reached  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2021.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8754337