K821x#15complaint
Mr H says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 10 instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr H between  February 
2015 and December 2016.  Mr Hs loans were  for between £100 and £700. They were to be 
repaid over varying  periods  in 1, 2, 3 or 12 instalments.  There was a break  of 7 months 
between loans 2 and 3, but the remainder were  taken within a month of the previous one 
being settled.  MYJAR  agreed that loans  6, 7 and 8 may not have been suitable  for Mr H and 
offered to redress these.  From what I can see, Mr H repaid all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint in part and thought loans 9 and 10 shouldnt have 
been given. MYJAR  disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN82102692Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  MYJAR  has already agreed to provide 
the redress that Id require  for loans 6, 7 and 8. So I havent considered those loans  further 
except as they form part of the pattern Mr Hs borrowing.  
MYJAR asked Mr H for information about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr H said he earned £1,300 or £1,400  a month.  His expenditure for housing 
and other  credit commitments was between about  £300 and £680  a month. There was a 
break of seven months between loans two and three. So there were two chains of borrowing 
and proportionate affordability  checks should have been carried out for these. 
For loans one to five, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. From what  I can see, there wasnt anything in the information Mr H provided  
or the information MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant  it wouldve been  
proportionate to start verifying what Mr H was saying. So I cant say MYJAR was wrong  to 
have provided  loans one to five. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
7. I say this because:
By loan 7, Mr H had borrowed five times in seven months since he started  borrowing 
from MYJAR  again after the seven month  break.
From  loan 7 onwards  Mr H was provided  with a new loan within  weeks  of settling a 
previous one. So MYJAR ought to have  realised it was more  likely than not Mr H was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr H wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed MYJAR.  Loan 10 was taken 
out 13 months after loan three. And it was for a much larger amount. Mr H had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to MYJAR  over an extended  period.
Ref: DRN82102693I think that Mr H lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Hs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
MYJAR has already  agreed to uphold the complaint about loans 6, 7 and 8. But Im also 
upholding the complaint  about loans 9 and 10 and MYJAR should put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 6 to 10;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 6 from Mr Hs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  7 to 10 should be removed from Mr Hs credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8210269