K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains on behalf of her late husbands  (Mr Js) estate,  about  the advice he 
received from TTR Barnes (Financial Services) Limited (the business) in 2018.  
background
In May 2018, Mr J passed away suddenly leaving Mrs J without funds to settle the 
outstanding mortgage on their apartment.  Although he had some  life cover  through his 
employer  organised by the business   it wasnt enough to cover  the mortgage.  
In due course looking through Mr Js paperwork Mrs J found evidence of a financial review  
conducted by the business. In short, she says:
Although it was recoded that she was dependent on Mr J, the business didnt 
mention that he should take out life cover. 
If the business had advised Mr J to take life cover  it wouldve involved a medical 
examination and couldve identified his health  issues sooner. 
Another financial report mentioned Mr J had life cover with his employer but didnt 
record the level of cover, or whether it was enough to cover  their mortgage.
There was also evidence that Mr J had life cover held jointly  with his ex-wife. The 
business shouldve  contacted the provider to get further information about the policy.  
Although it was discussed that Mr J might die before her, her needs  werent  
considered.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The meeting  notes from 5 January 2018 suggest  Mr J was offered  a full financial 
review  which covered  protection  and general insurance  but he declined, saying he 
was satisfied with his current level of cover. 
The advice Mr J wanted  was for personal retirement planning. Although  a full review 
didnt take place, his personal protection was discussed as part of this, but not in any 
great detail. 
In the circumstances the business hasnt done anything  wrong.  It reviewed Mr Js 
pensions as instructed  by him. 
As a result  of the pensions advice Mrs J received a tax-free lump sum of £43,249 
which she wouldnt otherwise have received.
Mrs J disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary,  she said:
She doesnt accept  that her husband  wouldve said he was in good health and the 
business shouldve  checked his current life policy to see if it was still suitable.
Shes provided information surrounding diabetes and death  related diabetes 
information to support  her points.
She says her husband never  mentioned there being two people being  at the review 
meetings and they shouldve known better than not to consider his life cover options. 
She feels the business has tweaked some facts  retrospectively  in order  to correct 
its own error.
Ref: DRN82540762The business has made the following observations:
It completely denies that it has in any way tweaked any of the facts.
It did set up the life cover for Mr J through his employer, based  on two times  his 
salary  with the information being  provided  by his employer. 
When the claim form was submitted to the insurer it transpired  that his employer had 
provided the incorrect salary rate. But with the help of Mr Js employer (and Mrs J) 
the business was able to persuade  the insurer to retrospectively apply the correct 
rate so the correct amount of £145,000 could be paid. It fought just as hard as Mrs J 
to ensure that the correct  amount  was paid.
The 25% tax free cash  taken from the pension  was done so as to pay off unsecured 
debts totalling  £30,000 and the remainder to be used for a future  house  purchase.
Given the nature of the discussions it was necessary to get a pension  transfer 
specialist involved, subsequent to the January 2018 meeting.     
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions, for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs J says, Im not persuaded 
that the business has behaved unreasonably. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Js strength of feeling about this matter.  Im also very sorry for the 
sudden loss of Mr J.
Mrs J has provided  detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mrs J and the business, and reach what  I think  
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that from the very first meeting in 
January 2018,  Mr J chose  not to have a full financial review, instead he only wanted  advice  
on his personal  retirement planning.  It was recorded that he was satisfied with the cover he 
already had. I acknowledge this may have been  because he has just arranged  life cover  with 
the business through his employer. 
Ref: DRN82540763Its important for Mrs J to understand that the business couldnt have forced Mr J to review 
his finances, especially  if he was content with what he had  regardless  of whether (or not) 
he needed more  cover. And even if the business recommended  that greater cover was 
needed, Mr J was under no obligation to follow the advice.  
Im satisfied that Mr J was the customer, and that only his needs  were being assessed,  and 
not Mrs Js needs.  Thats  probably  why the business wouldnt have considered  her position 
separately, even  when  she was present at a subsequent meeting in late February 2018. I 
dont think it had a relationship with her. 
I note that neither Mrs J nor Mr J raised any objections in that meeting about only pensions 
being discussed. 
 
Even if life cover had been discussed  and its possible it wasnt  because Mr J already had 
life cover with the business through his employer  Im unable to say that a medical check  
wouldve been recommended or that it wouldve identified his health issues  sooner.  
Im mindful of what Mrs J says about  Mr Js other life cover. But I dont think  the business 
was under an obligation to contact the provider of his other life policy jointly held with his ex-
wife. 
Whilst there wouldnt have been a need  to discuss protection insurance in any great detail, in 
light of Mr Js instructions, I note it was still recorded that his death in service benefit was 
twice his salary, which I now know means  he was entitled to  £145,000.00. And that his 
personal pension  funds amounted to £211,538.00. It was also recorded  that his interest  only 
mortgage of £177,000.00 was protected with life assurance.  
Whilst I appreciate this only covered Mr Js basic financial  circumstances, and Mrs J may not 
agree with the accuracy of the information,  the business can only advise based on the 
information provided, and within the mandate given to it by Mr J. 
As this is what formed the basis of subsequent  discussions, it was unlikely that the issue  of 
protection and insurance would come up again  and I cant  blame the business  for not 
discussing this. Despite  what Mrs J now says, I dont agree that the business shouldve 
delved deeper into Mr Js existing policy/policies it simply didnt have the mandate or 
instructions to.  
I note it was recorded that Mr J wanted to provide for Mrs J if he passed away and thats  
what he did by transferring a part of his pension so that she could receive  a lump sum. I 
should make  clear this wasnt done because of Mrs Js needs,  but because  it was what  Mr J 
wanted. 
Im aware that the business  helped  set up life cover for Mr J through his employer, based on 
two times his salary.  I note there  was some issue with the information provided  by the 
employer regarding Mr Js salary but with the help of the business and his employer the 
insurer was persuaded to pay out the full £145,000.  
So, considering the points  made above, in this instance Im unable to say that the business 
has behaved unreasonably. 
Ref: DRN82540764If Mrs J wants to complain  about  the advice  Mr J received in relation to his life cover  
arranged through  his employer I think she needs  to give the business an opportunity  to 
consider that complaint separately and respond within the given  timeframe.   
I appreciate Mrs J will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants  to hear. Whilst I appreciate  her 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mrs J 
what she wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint, and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8254076