K820x#14complaint
Mr P complained that Autonet  Insurance Services Limited unfairly charged him when he 
cancelled his motor  insurance policy. 
background
Mr P bought a motor  insurance policy with Autonet  in January 2019. In April 2019 he sold his 
van. So Mr P cancelled his policy. Autonet charged him its cancellation fee of £79.95. Mr P 
didnt think this charge  was fair. He said Autonet  didnt  make him aware of its charges before 
he bought the policy. 
Our investigator thought Autonet had acted  reasonably and in line with the policy.  Mr P 
bought his policy online and had to agree  hed read the terms and conditions  which  set out 
the cancellation charge  before he bought the policy. 
Mr P didnt agree. He believes we arent  impartial and have sided  with Autonet. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
We dont think its unfair  for an insurer to charge  a fee for setting up and cancelling  a policy  
provided these fees are reasonable and clearly explained at the sale of the policy. 
In this case, the cancellation charge of £79.95 is clearly set out under Autonets  Terms of 
Business. Autonet has provided  screenshots of Mr Ps online journey. Im satisfied that it 
gave Mr P the option - before buying the policy - to change his mind if he was unhappy with 
Autonets terms. As Mr P agreed  hed read, understood and accepted these terms, I cant  
say that Autonet acted unreasonably  in charging its cancellation fee  which is in line with 
what other insurers charge  when Mr P cancelled his policy. 
I understand Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Autonet has done 
anything wrong. So Im not upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8884778