K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he didnt get an incentive when he switched  his current  account  to Bank 
of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) as hed been  promised. Hes also unhappy with the way 
hes been treated.  He wants  the incentive  and compensation. 
background
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that Mr H had switched his account to it and was 
told in branch that hed get the incentive.  He was also sent a text message confirming this. It 
cant now say exactly what Mr H was told in the branch but a later phone call was terminated  
as the calls quality  was very poor.  It apologised for its service and that it hadnt  called him 
back. The switching  incentives terms and conditions say amongst other things that the 
customer will not qualify for the £135 payment if theyve already received any other  switching 
offer since  January 2012. Here  Mr H had been  paid a £125 switching incentive in May 2015 
and it also couldnt  determine if hed fulfilled  all of the other conditions for the full incentive  to 
now be paid. So, Mr H didnt qualify for the £135 payment. Its possible the branch staff gave 
him misleading information  and his phone call was poorly handled.  And its offered Mr H £50 
compensation for this.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said:
Mr H was told in the branch that he would be eligible  for the switch  incentive. But he 
didnt qualify for it as in 2015 hed received a previous  switch  offer and benefit. Bank 
of Scotland has paid the first £50 of the incentive because of the information he was 
given. Thats fair.
But she doesnt agree  it should  have to honour the remaining £85 of the incentive as 
customers are only eligible for this after 6 months and subject to meeting other  
criteria. In this case the mistake was noticed  and acted upon before that time had 
gone by.
Bank of Scotland may have misrepresented things and Mr H mayve relied on what  
he was told. But he would have been  given the terms and conditions  of the switch 
incentive offer when  opening the account.  And he signed and agreed to them.
Bank of Scotlands payment of £50 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused is fair and reasonable.
Mr H doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says Bank of Scotland 
hasnt honoured  the first £50 part of the incentive. Its given him £50 for something  else. Hes 
also concerned  also about his credit  file and wants the credit search removed from his credit  
file.
 
Bank of Scotland has confirmed its payment of £50 compensation was for distress and 
inconvenience caused by the advice given in branch and for possibly hanging up the phone 
on Mr H. Its also said its up to me to decide if it should remove  the credit  marker from his 
credit file.
Ref: DRN85636282my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H was made aware of the switching incentive  offers terms and conditions  and he 
wouldve signed them  and agreed to them. He wouldve  also been aware that hed received  
an earlier switching incentive in 2015.
The offers terms and conditions clearly say that the £135 switching incentive payment 
wouldnt be available to customers whod received another  switch  offer since  2012. As a 
result I dont  think Bank of Scotland  did anything wrong withdrawing the offer from Mr H 
when it realised hed benefited from an earlier switch incentive in 2015.  And I dont think  
Bank of Scotland was or is liable to pay Mr H the first £50 part of the incentive payment. 
Furthermore as he didnt fulfilled other criteria in the offers terms and conditions he also isnt 
entitled to the second  £85 payment which was usually payable  after six months. 
Bank of Scotland has accepted Mr H mayve  been given misleading information in the 
branch and that it couldve  dealt with him better  on the phone. And its paid him £50 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused by this. 
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think thats fair. And 
although I recognise Mr Hs frustration I dont think I can fairly  or reasonably  ask Bank  of 
Scotland to pay him any more compensation or any of the payments set out in in the 
switching incentive  offer, as hed like.
Mr H is also concerned about what may be recorded  on his credit  file and wants reference  to 
this matter removed  from it.
I realise Mr H mayve  been given incorrect information in the branch and says he relied  on it. 
But he was also given  and made  aware of the offers  terms and conditions and wouldve 
known hed received a switching incentive  in 2015. And despite this he made and continued 
with the switching application.
On balance I dont  think it would now be fair or reasonable to require Bank  of Scotland  to 
amend or remove any record of it from Mr Hs credit  file. Not least  because  its obliged to 
accurately record on Mr Hs credit file what has happened and its dealings with him.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Hs strength of feeling, I dont see any reason to change the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8563628