K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Santander  UK Plc (then  trading as Alliance and Leicester, but Ill just refer 
to Santander from now on) mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage started in 2002   but they didn't take out PPI then.
The complaint Im looking at is about the sale of a PPI policy taken out in 2003 to protect  
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage monthly repayments.  The policy  covered  Mr C for accident,  
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs C mainly said that the policy wasnt discussed and Mr Cs work  benefits  meant  
that PPI wasnt needed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no paperwork available now to show how PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs C. But as this 
happened a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs C or Santander to have kept this. 
And a financial business  isnt required to keep paperwork indefinitely.  
Although Santander couldnt provide any documents from the sale, its records show that the 
PPI was taken out after the mortgage  was set up. 
This means  that Mr and Mrs C wouldve had to fill in a separate  application form and set up 
new payment arrangements to take out the PPI. Santander has provided  an example of the 
sort of application form it says they would've  had to complete.
It appears Mr C mustve  decided he wanted  the PPI. I say this because  Santander  sent him 
a welcome letter shortly  afterwards setting out details of the cover. He couldve queried the 
PPI then if this wasnt something  he wanted. But, from what  Ive seen,  it doesnt  look as if 
that happened.
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs C mightve forgotten  some of the details of 
this sale as it was so long ago. This means  that what Mr and Mrs C say isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
Where theres only limited information and its unclear what happened I have to look at 
everything Ive been told and sent and decide what I think  is most likely.
Ref: DRN87318332On balance, I think it wouldve been  clear to Mr and Mrs C that it was up to them to say if 
they wanted to take out PPI and it was added to the account when they chose the cover  they 
wanted to have. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI and it looks like it was suitable based on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
It looks to me like Mr C was eligible  for the policy given  his circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest it was inappropriate that the cover was just in Mr Cs 
name.
The PPI couldve  paid out for up to 12 months  per claim and Mr C couldve made repeated 
claims. So the policy wouldve provided  long term cover  for the mortgage.  Their mortgage 
was a major  financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Cs home wouldve been at risk if the 
mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. I think its likely that losing Mr Cs income 
wouldve had a significant impact on their joint finances. So, I can see why they mightve felt 
it was useful having PPI to protect Mr Cs income  in the event he was unable  to work. 
Ive taken into account what Mr C told us about  his sick pay arrangements  at work. But the 
policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit on top of his work benefits. So I think PPI couldve 
provided a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mr and Mrs C mightve  had extra 
costs if Mr C had an illness or disability. 
Mr C told us he didn't have any other means to rely on if he wasn't working. So I think PPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs C looking at their circumstances.
Its possible some of the information  Mr and Mrs C were given about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. There were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if 
those applied in Mr Cs case. So, I dont think having  more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs C at the time they bought  the 
policy. But looking at the welcome letter it appears  Mr C had signed  an instruction form to 
his bank to cover the monthly cost. So it seems  Mr C was happy at the time to pay for it and 
the policy appears to have been affordable. As he was paying  for the PPI monthly, he could 
cancel it without further cost if his situation  changed  or he no longer  wanted it.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs C still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been given clearer 
information as it gave useful protection in Mr and Mrs Cs particular situation.  And, on 
balance, I dont find it was mis-sold.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Santander  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN87318333my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8731833