K820x#14complaint
Mr Z is unhappy  with the interest rate offered by Marks & Spencer Financial Services  Plc 
(M&S) after he applied  for a loan.  He says the interest rate he was offered differed to what 
was advertised on their website.
background
In September  2018, Mr Z wanted to borrow £16,500  for home  improvements. He saw that 
M&S were advertising a loan with an interest  rate of 2.8%, so he applied  for a loan online.
After Mr Z received  his loan paperwork,  he saw M&S  were  now offering him a loan with a 
significantly higher  interest rate. Mr Z then phoned  M&S, who explained their terms and 
conditions said interest rates  could change once a loan application  had been  reviewed. Mr Z 
was unhappy   he felt M&S was profiteering at his expense. He said it would affect  him 
getting a loan elsewhere as his credit report will show hes already applied  for a loan with 
M&S. M&S wouldnt reduce the higher  interest rate offered to Mr Z, so he reluctantly went  
ahead with his application.
Mr Z complained to M&S.  M&S  explained  there was a range of factors  that might influence 
the interest rate offered to Mr Z, but they could  not confirm what those were to him.  He was 
aware that the small print stated the actual interest  rate offered will depend on personal  
circumstances. But Mr Z says he has a very high credit score. He says M&S  should:
give him the loan with the advertised  rate and pay back  the difference in his monthly 
payments 
pay compensation for the damages  that the bank caused with its unfair  policy.
After complaining to M&S, Mr Z then brought his complaint to us. It was considered  by one 
of our investigators and she explained that she didnt think  there  were  sufficient grounds to 
uphold the complaint. The investigator found  M&Ss website explained that some customers  
applying for loans may be offered  different rates of interest. Each lender has its own criteria 
to assess loan applications and its up to each  lender to decide who to lend to, and on what 
terms. And she didnt therefore  find M&S should  do anything to resolve  the matter. 
Mr Z didnt  accept the investigators conclusions and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
It has therefore been referred  to me so a final decision can be issued.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for what are broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain 
why.
I know Mr Z is unhappy with the rate of interest  hes now paying  on the loan, thinking hed 
get the rate advertised. But M&S say on its website that the interest rate offered will depend  
on individual circumstances. Ive seen no evidence to show  M&S guaranteed Mr Z would be 
offered the advertised interest  rate if he was accepted for the loan. And Mr Zs application 
was just that  he was applying for a loan at the advertised rate. M&S  hadnt yet approved 
the loan he was asking for  it needed  to consider his circumstances  before  deciding what  
terms it would offer him. 
Ref: DRN88523562Once Mr Zs application was considered by M&S, it offered him the loan he asked for, but 
with a higher interest rate. I know Mr Z doesnt  understand the reasons why M&S  offered 
him a higher  interest  rate  particularly  given his strong credit score. But he may find it 
helpful if I say that a history of accessing  credit and past indebtedness (or the absence of) 
are also factors that are widely taken into account  in loan decisions. There are a very large  
range of factors, too numerous to mention but some obvious ones are employment status of 
applicant, time at address and electoral roll status.  I mention these merely to make the point 
that there  are a very large number of factors, some  obvious, some  not so obvious, and it is 
for each  business,  including M&S to use its commercial judgment as to what  weight to give 
to the different factors. 
Ultimately, its not for this service to decide  what rates lenders should apply. Its up to M&S 
to decide which customers  to lend to, and the terms on which they are prepared to lend. And 
I cant ask M&S to change  the terms on which theyre prepared  to lend to Mr Z. If Mr Z didnt 
want to accept the interest rate offered,  he didnt  have to proceed  with the loan. Im 
unconvinced any footprint  on his credit file would  have materially  affected his prospects of 
getting a loan elsewhere  for example, with his own bank. 
The regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  requires businesses who advertise 
loans with a representative interest rate must  reasonably  expect at the time of the 
advertisement to provide  credit at or below that interest rate to at least  51% of borrowers. If 
Mr Z is concerned that this is not the case at M&S, he may wish to ask the FCA to 
investigate. But Ive not seen anything to show M&S has failed to meet this requirement.
I dont think M&S guaranteed it would offer Mr Z its advertised rate if accepted  for a loan, so 
I wont ask it to adjust his loan or pay him compensation on that basis.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint against Marks & Spencer  Financial  
Services Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8852356