K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) wont refund a payment made from 
her savings account.
background
Miss N says that while reviewing her annual savings account statement in February  2019,  
she noticed a bank transfer of £6,340  made on 16 August 2018 which  she didnt recognise. 
Miss N got in touch  with Barclays  and reported it as fraudulent, asking that they refund her 
for the payment.
Barclays investigated Miss Ns claim and declined to refund the payment. They  said the 
payment was made by telephone banking, and that the caller  rang from Miss Ns registered  
mobile phone number. Also, that the caller successfully answered  the security  questions in 
order to make the payment, meaning they were aware of Miss Ns personal details. They 
said they couldnt see how a third party wouldve got the information  necessary in order  to 
make the payment. 
Miss N asked Barclays to reconsider; saying that the payment was unusual activity based  on 
her previous  use of the savings account. She hadnt used telephone banking  before, and 
only ever used the savings account  to transfer  funds to her current account.
Barclays reinvestigated and declined to refund Miss N, saying they thought  it was most likely 
she had authorised the transaction.  
As Miss N didnt agree with Barclays decision, she asked  us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary  she felt 
it was most likely that Miss N had authorised the transaction, as it was unclear how someone 
else had accessed  her security information  and accessed her phone in order  to make the 
payment.
Miss N disagreed with the investigators view,  raising several points:
were relying on evidence from Barclays which could be made up;
someone couldve hacked her details and got her security information;
she hasnt been provided with a copy of the call, but if it wasnt her voice  then that 
would prove it wasnt  her;
she was out of the country when the payment was made;
we didnt obtain her phone  records to show she had called Barclays on the date in 
question, and;
we didnt address  that the payment was unusual  and out of character for her account
Miss N advised that she wasnt able to obtain  copies of her mobile phone records  due to the 
length of time that has passed  since the payment was made. As Miss N disagreed  with the 
investigators opinion  the case was passed  to me for review.  
Ref: DRN81242562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As part of this Im required to take into 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;  codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  
But that is not the end of the story:  
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty)
regulated firms  like Barclays are also required  to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6). 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available. 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
So, taking all of this into account, in this case I need  to decide whether Barclays  acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealings  with Miss N with regards to the transfer made  via telephone 
banking, or whether it should have done more than it did.
authorisation
Miss N has told us that she didnt make  the transfer via telephone banking in August  2018.
Weve been provided with the call recordings relating to the transfer, which Ive listened to 
carefully.
Ref: DRN81242563Having listened  to the recordings  Im not persuaded that it was Miss N that made the call, 
but Ive also had to consider whether Miss N authorised  someone  else to make the call.
At the start of the call Barclays put the caller  through a security  process, where they asked 
four separate questions about  personal information pertaining to Miss N. Three of the 
questions were answered correctly, but a slightly incorrect answer was given  to one of the 
questions. When  the staff member queries it, the correct answer  was provided by the caller.
Due to the value of the payment the call was transferred to another  department  within 
Barclays to authorise the processing of the transfer. This call involved further security 
checks to be made.  As part of this, three more questions were asked in relation to Miss Ns 
credit report  - all of which were answered  correctly.
Having listened  to the calls and the type of questions  asked,  the person who made  the call 
knew a lot of personal information about  Miss N and was able to answer  these questions  
without any real hesitation  or uncertainty. Also, the person clearly knew  Miss N had an 
Everyday Saver account, as Barclays asked if they wanted to take the funds from the current  
account, and the caller  told them  that they wanted it from the Everyday Saver   specifically 
naming the account.
Whilst I accept  its possible that someone else mayve obtained Miss Ns personal  
information in order to answer these questions,  without her knowledge or permission  I 
think based on the number of questions  and the type of information  used that its unlikely. I 
think its more likely  that whoever made the call had all of Miss Ns information with her 
permission.
The main  reason that I think its most  likely that Miss N authorised someone to make  the call 
is around the use of Miss Ns mobile  phone. Barclays have  given us evidence which shows  
which number is registered  for Miss N, this is the same mobile number that she has provided  
to our service. This number also matches  mobile banking log ins prior to this payment which 
Miss N isnt disputing. Barclays say that the call to make the transfer  was received from 
Miss Ns registered phone number, which is supported with the evidence theyve provided. 
But theyve also told us that Miss N was sent a one-time passcode (OTP) during the call as 
part of the authentication  process. During  the call the staff member advises that they will be 
sending the OTP to the mobile phone, and the caller is able to read out and provide the OTP 
that has been received. The staff member confirms  that the OTP provided is correct. 
So not only would the caller have  needed  a detailed amount of knowledge  about  Miss Ns 
account, as well enough information to answer several security questions they would have 
also needed access to her mobile phone as well to receive and respond to the OTP. Miss N 
hasnt told us that her mobile phone was out of her possession or that anyone else had 
access to it, and the same mobile  phone was used  to log in to Miss Ns mobile  banking  app 
a few hours prior this call to complete an online transfer between her accounts  which 
supports that it was in Miss Ns possession. Miss N has also advised that her phone is 
secured by a numerical  pass code or use of facial recognition. This would mean that 
someone would not only need  to obtain  Miss Ns mobile phone,  but also be able to 
successfully unlock her phone to complete the call. 
Ref: DRN81242564If this was someone acting without  Miss Ns permission, they would need to obtain her 
phone and return it to her without her noticing. And while its possible that someone known 
to her mayve had access to her mobile phone, there is still no explanation for how they 
wouldve been able to successfully unlock it.
I appreciate that Miss N is adamant that she didnt  call to make  the transfer, and that she 
didnt authorise  it. But based on what Ive seen,  I think  its unlikely that someone  without  her 
authorisation was able to access,  unlock  her phone and use it, as well as successfully 
answer all the security questions required to satisfy Barclays  security check.
Also, I have to take into account  that Miss N says she didnt notice the transaction  until 
nearly six months after the payment  was made.  I can see that Miss N only receives   
statements on her savings account once a year, but her statement shows that Miss N logs 
into her mobile banking app and makes  payments to and from her savings account 
frequently.
Following the disputed transaction in August 2018, I can see that Miss N logged into her 
mobile banking  app four more times in the month  of August.  This included Miss N 
transferring £800  out of her savings  account to her current account. The disputed transaction  
was for £6,340  and this was a significant  part of her savings  account balance, depleting her 
balance from over £17,000 to just over £10,000.  This was nearly a third of her overall 
balance reduced  in one transaction. I think its highly unlikely that when logging  in to transfer 
funds Miss N wouldnt have noticed such a significant change to her balance  at all, until she 
got her statement six months later.
Also, the behaviour doesnt fit what Id expect to see from a fraudster. The person who called 
Barclays didnt ask what the account  balance  was and made a transfer for what  appears  to 
be quite a specific amount  - £6,340.  If it was a fraudster, Id expect them  to check  what the 
account balance  was, and Id expect  them to access as much of the funds as possible in as 
short amount of time as a possible. Even  if the caller was aware of what  accounts Miss N 
held with Barclays, and what the balance was  this doesnt explain why they only made one 
transfer leaving over £10,000 in the account  and made no further attempts to get funds. This 
doesnt persuade  me it was someone  acting without Miss Ns authority.
I appreciate that Miss N has said that she was out of the country  when the call was made but 
based on the ticket shes  provided,  she didnt depart the UK until several  hours after the 
transfer was made. But regardless, this doesnt  address  the other points Ive raised above.
Having considered everything, I think its more likely than not that Miss N authorised this 
transfer, either by completing it herself  or authorising someone else to make it on her behalf.
should Barclays have  done more to prevent  the payment
Miss N has raised a concern that Barclays  systems  didnt flag the transaction as suspicious, 
she feels it was unusual  and out of character  compared to her previous account activity. But 
as Im persuaded  that Miss N authorised  the transaction, whether  or not it was flagged by 
Barclays system  wouldnt change  the outcome on this case. As I think  its likely that if 
Barclays had contacted Miss N, she wouldve asked them to proceed with the payment.
Miss N has also questioned the legitimacy  of the evidence provided by Barclays, but I dont 
have those concerns  having reviewed it. And she hasnt provided me with anything to the 
contrary to suggest  Barclays  information is inaccurate or shouldnt  be relied on here.
Ref: DRN81242565From everything Ive seen  I think its more  likely  than not that Miss N authorised the transfer, 
even if she may not have  been the person  who called Barclays. Therefore, I wont be asking 
Barclays to refund the money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8124256