K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea)  have unfairly voided his policy and have  
failed to pay his claim  or return the premiums paid. 
background
Mr C held a car insurance policy with Covea and submitted a claim after being involved in an 
accident in December 2018. But while assessing his claim, Covea discovered that Mr C had 
not disclosed all of his previous driving  penalties and found that he actually had nine penalty 
points on his licence  rather than the six points  he disclosed when taking out the policy.
Mr C said that he had forgotten  to disclose the penalties, but Covea subsequently voided the 
policy as they said they would have  refused  cover  if he had accurately  disclosed them.  They 
accepted that his misrepresentation  was likely  to have  been careless,  but they refused to 
offer a refund of his premiums due to the incident  being a fault claim that required them to 
pay the third-party claim, which  they said involved costs in excess  of £5,000.  As a result,  
they said Mr C would  need to pay the outstanding  annual premium  for his policy of £424.90. 
Mr C complained about Coveas decision to void his policy, and was also unhappy with the 
service he received while they were handling  his claim. Covea upheld Mr Cs complaint in 
part as they acknowledged that the service he received  could have been better, so they 
offered to deduct  £100 from the outstanding  balance  of the premiums  he owed. But they 
maintained that they were entitled  to void his policy without refunding any of the premiums 
he had paid due to the misrepresentation.  
Our investigator upheld  Mr Cs complaint. Given that Covea had accepted  the 
misrepresentation as careless, he considered that they ought to refund the premiums he had 
paid as this was the applicable remedy under the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012. Covea disagreed and requested a final decision,  as they 
maintained that they were entitled  to use the premiums to offset the costs  of the third-party 
claim.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January  2020.  I said I did not intend  to 
uphold it for the reasons set out below:
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) effectively 
codifies in law the equitable approach that this service has long taken to cases  of non-
disclosure or misrepresentation. In short, it is the consumers  duty to take reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation when  answering an insurers clear and specific questions 
about facts relevant to the proposed risk when they buy or renew  an insurance policy. If the 
consumer didnt take reasonable care and misrepresented something, and this adversely 
affected the insurers underwriting (a qualifying misrepresentation), then the way the insurer  
can respond depends on whether the misrepresentation was careless or deliberate/reckless. 
If the consumer did take reasonable  care then theres no qualifying misrepresentation, so the 
insurer cant take any action against  the consumer at all.
So the starting point in this case is whether Mr C breached  his duty to take reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation. CIDRA makes it clear that whether a consumer has 
breached their duty to take reasonable care is to be determined in light of all the relevant 
circumstances. Those  circumstances include how clear and specific  the insurers  questions 
were. I can see that Mr C was asked whether he had any driving licence endorsements,  
Ref: DRN85303002fixed penalties or driving disqualifications in the past 5 years, or have any prosecutions 
pending. Mr C answered Yes to this question and disclosed two separate  driving penalties 
from January and October 2014 which carried three penalty points each. 
But Covea have  shown  that, in addition  to the above two driving penalties,  Mr C had failed to 
disclose three additional  penalties he received in July 2017, December 2017  and 
February 2018. I consider that the question asked of Mr C about his driving penalties  was 
clear and specific (particularly given that he knew to disclose older driving penalties from 
2014) and that he failed to answer this question accurately. So Im satisfied he has failed to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Covea say that their underwriting department have confirmed that they would have  deemed  
this risk to be unacceptable. I accept that five driving  penalties  as opposed to two (equating  
to nine penalty points rather than six) could present an unacceptable risk to an insurer. But I 
havent been provided with a copy of Coveas underwriting criteria, and neither have I seen 
the confirmation from their underwriters. So in response to my provisional decision, I ask that 
they either provide a copy of their underwriting criteria along these lines or, alternatively, 
provide a statement from the underwriter confirming that the misrepresentation adversely  
affected their underwriting and led them to offer cover to Mr C that they otherwise would 
have avoided. Assuming  they are able to confirm this position,  such  inducement to enter into 
a contract will mean there has been a qualifying misrepresentation.
In order to determine the remedy available  to Covea, CIDRA  requires a distinction to be 
made between whether  the qualifying misrepresentation  was deliberate,  or at the very least  
careless. If it was careless, CIDRA sets out that if the insurer would not have entered  into 
the insurance contract, they may void the contract and refuse  all claims.  But it says that they 
must also return the premiums paid.  
Covea accept that Mr Cs misrepresentation was, at the very least, made  carelessly. So this 
would entitle them to void the policy. But the investigator considered that they ought to return 
the premiums in line with the applicable remedy available under CIDRA. However, this 
remedy must also be considered in line with section 151(8) of the Road Traffic Act (RTA)  
1988, which states:
Where an insurer becomes liable under this section to pay an amount in respect  of a 
liability of a person  who is not insured by a policy or whose liability  is not covered by 
a security, he is entitled to recover the amount from that person
Covea say that this was a fault claim, so even though there is no cover available  for Mr C, 
they have still had to pay third-party claim costs in excess of £5,000.  So they are entitled to 
recoup such costs from Mr C under the Road Traffic Act 1988.  But what  they have chosen  to 
do instead is to charge  Mr C the outstanding balance of his annual premium,  and effectively  
offset the liability with the premiums he has paid. I consider  that Covea are lawfully entitled 
to do this as a result of section 151 of the RTA. But even if this were  not the case, I think  it is 
a fair and reasonable solution  in any event. So I do not think Covea have acted  
unreasonably by using Mr Cs premiums to offset  the money that is owed to them  in these 
circumstances.
compensation
Mr C is also unhappy with the service he has received  from Covea and the way they have 
handled his claim. This includes, but it not strictly  limited to:
Ref: DRN85303003Delays in the progression of his claim and a breakdown in communication; 
Being  promised a courtesy car which  did not materialise; and
The unprofessional manner in which he was spoken to by Coveas agents.
Mr C submits that this poor service  has caused him distress and inconvenience,  and he 
does not consider that the £100  compensation offered  by Covea is commensurate to the 
experience he has had.
Ive considered the service Mr C received  after submitting  his claim, and its clear that hes 
been left frustrated and inconvenienced by Coveas actions. I can see, for example, that 
there were avoidable delays in the progression of his claim, and that the communication  
from Covea could have  been better. But I have to consider whether, in the circumstances, 
the compensation awarded so far is proportionate  to the distress and inconvenience 
suffered.
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order  to 
award further compensation to Mr C, I would have  to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of 
Covea have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I cant 
say it has in these  circumstances.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  frustrating for Mr C, but I dont consider the 
actions of Covea  to warrant any further  compensation at a higher level.  And given that his 
policy was ultimately declared void, I dont  think  its unreasonable that Covea did not 
eventually supply a courtesy car. But for the times when their service  did fall below standard, 
I consider £100  to be fair compensation in the circumstances,  so I do not intend asking them 
to pay any additional  amount on top of this. 
Covea have said that they will reduce the amount Mr C owes them  by £100 instead of 
paying this compensation to him directly. And given that there is a balance outstanding and 
an amount currently owed by Mr C, I do not think this is unreasonable  in the circumstances.
I invited responses from both parties.  Covea provided a copy  of the relevant section of their 
underwriting criteria. Mr C responded but did not make any further submissions for 
consideration. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea have provided a copy of their underwriting criteria which demonstrates  that they 
would decline cover if an applicant has received  four or more convictions (which  includes 
fixed penalties) within the past five years. Given that Mr C had five penalties issued within 
five years of the policys inception, Im satisfied that his misrepresentation adversely affected 
Coveas underwriting  and led them  to offer cover to Mr C that they otherwise would have 
avoided.
As such  and given  that neither party has supplied anything  else for me to consider  I 
remain of the same  view as set out in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN85303004my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8530300