K821x#15complaint
Ms W says The Governor  and Company of the Bank of Ireland mis-sold  her a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 1991. 
Ms W applied for the MPPI at a meeting.
Bank of Ireland  initially said there  was no evidence  of PPI being sold to Ms W  so we 
shouldnt consider the complaint. An ombudsman previously issued a decision saying that 
PPI was sold to Ms W and that we could look at her complaint. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Bank of Ireland disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.  
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ws complaint because I dont think  Bank of Ireland made clear to 
Ms W that she had a choice about buying  the policy. This is because the mortgage 
application said that PPI would be added  automatically unless Ms W put a cross in a box on 
the form  and there was no cross  in the box. Also, Ms Ws recollection of the sale is that 
she was made to think the PPI was compulsory  in that she couldnt get the mortgage 
without it .So I think Ms W took out the policy because she thought she had to  even though  
she didnt really want it.
I dont think Ms W wouldve bought the policy  if Bank  of Ireland had made  it clear  she had a 
choice. So, I think Ms W has lost out because of what Bank of Ireland did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Bank of Irelands comments, including what  it said about  there  being  
no evidence Ms W had PPI and about  the likely sales process that wouldve been followed. 
But I still think I should uphold the complaint.
In the evidence Bank of Ireland provided following the previous decision, there was a copy  of 
notes that referred  to the existence  of PPI. Ms W was unable  to work and was considering 
making a claim on the policy. So its disappointing  that, despite  this evidence which Bank of 
Ireland previously pointed  out, I later returned  to its argument that PPI wasnt  sold to Ms W. 
I accept that Ms W is likely to have completed  a separate  application form for the PPI  
including a direct  debit instruction. But I think that just shows  that it was a separate product 
to the mortgage.  It doesnt show that it was made  clear to Ms W that she could decline it. 
And given  what she says she was told at the time, its likely that Bank  of Ireland gave her the 
impression that she had to have PPI. And therefore  that she had no choice about completing  
the application form for PPI, because otherwise she wouldnt get the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN80095142putting things right
Bank of Ireland  should put Ms W in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
Bank of Ireland  should:
Pay Ms W the amount  she paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on. 
If Ms W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Bank of Ireland can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Bank  of Ireland to take off tax from this interest. Bank of 
Ireland must give Ms W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ws complaint.
The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland should put things right by doing  what Ive 
said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombusdman
Ref: DRN8009514