K822xcomplaint
Mrs M says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, (QQ), irresponsibly lent to her. 
The complaint was brought to this service on Mrs Ms behalf  by a claims management 
company. But for ease,  I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mrs M.
background 
This complaint is about two payday loans QQ provided to Mrs M between July and 
August 2011.  The loans  were repayable by two instalments. All of the loans have been 
repaid. A summary of Mrs Ms borrowing  history  is as follows:
Loan number 
Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
instalment amount 
1. 2/7/11 25/8/11 £400 £480
2. 25/8/11 15/11/11 £400 £480
our adjudicators view
Mrs Ms complaint was assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think QQ had been  
wrong to give Loans 1 and 2 to Mrs M.  
Mrs M disagreed and the complaint was given to me, an ombudsman, to assess.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs M 
and to QQ on 13 September  201. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when  QQ first lent to Mrs M the regulator was the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT)  
and relevant guidance included its guidance on irresponsible lending. 
QQ needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this meant  that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mrs M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But Id said that certain  factors  might  point to the fact that QQ should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
Ref: DRN80464922refinancing might signal  that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I said that there might even come a point  where  the lending  history and pattern of lending  
itself clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important for me to say that QQ was required to establish whether  
Mrs M could  sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the OFT guidance on irresponsible  lending  defined 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the consumer  should  be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should have 
realised, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have realised, that a borrower  wouldnt be able 
to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to have been able to make  their 
repayments without  borrowing  further. 
I had carefully considered  all of the arguments,  evidence and information provided  in this 
context and what this all meant for Mrs Ms complaint.
QQ did a number of checks before it lent to Mrs M. It asked her for details of her income. 
Mrs Ms declared income was £1,272. QQ checked  Mrs Ms employment and housing  
status. From the information QQ gathered, Mrs M was employed and was an owner 
occupier. 
QQ had also checked Mrs Ms credit file before agreeing  to the loans.  It hadnt  provided us 
with any information  about its credit  checks.  So I couldnt say there  were  entries  on the 
report that shouldve  concerned QQ.
 
Mrs Ms first loan with QQ was for £400  with two monthly repayments of £80 and £480. The 
first repayment consisted of interest  only on the amount borrowed and the final repayment  
consisted of the full amount borrowed and the interest for the last month. 
Mrs M had declared a monthly  income  of £1,272.  Id thought  Mrs Ms final repayment  on 
Loan 1 was a significant proportion of her income.  So, Id thought it might have been 
proportionate at this time for QQ to have gathered some further information from Mrs M 
about her expenditure and other short term lending. Had it done so, I said it was likely that 
QQ wouldve  learnt that Mrs M had no outstanding other short term loans at that time. I had 
seen Mrs Ms credit  report and her bank statements for the month before Loan 1 and I 
couldnt see that shed taken any other short term loans during that time. I could also see 
from Mrs Ms bank  statements that her partners income was paid into her account. Although 
the regular expenditure shown on the statements was higher than Mrs Ms income,  the 
regular expenditure appeared to be well covered when her partners income was taken into 
account and it was likely that Mrs M would  have been left with sufficient disposable  income 
to repay  Loan  1. So, I couldnt say that if QQ had completed sufficient checks,  it would have 
found that Mrs M couldnt afford to repay  Loan  1 sustainably. So I didnt think QQ was wrong  
to give Loan 1 to Mrs M. 
Ref: DRN80464923But Id noted that Mrs M had difficulties repaying  Loan 1. Her first repayment of £80 was paid 
a day late and shed  incurred a late fee. And whilst her second repayment was due on 
22 August 2011,  shed  repaid it late by three  repayments over three days with the final 
repayment made on 25 August 2011.  Shed incurred another  late fee. As Mrs M had 
difficulties repaying  the loan with late payments for both instalments and late payment fees 
charged, Id thought QQ should  have been concerned  when she took out her next loan on 
the same  day shed repaid Loan 1 and again  for the same amount.
Loan 2 was again repayable over two instalments with a highest  instalment of £480. And I 
thought for the same reasons as set out above  for Loan 1 that QQ should have put together  
a clearer picture of Mrs Ms finances  before agreeing to lend to her going  forwards. And if 
QQ had carried out proportionate checks before Loan 2, it would have seen, as I had seen 
from Mrs Ms bank  statements,  that Mrs Ms partners income had appeared to have 
substantially reduced  and that most of Mrs Ms income would have been spent on regular 
expenditure. She was borrowing short term loans from other  lenders at the same  time as 
Loan 2. Id thought it would have been  clear to QQ that Mrs M was facing significant 
problems managing her money and that Loan  2 wasnt likely to be repaid in a sustainable 
manner. So I didnt  think that QQ should have  lent Loan 2 to Mrs M.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs M or QQ my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  QQ to put things right as 
follows.
putting things right  what QQ needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs M paid on Loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;  and
remove any adverse entries about Loan  2 from Mrs Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
QQ responded to say that although it believed its checks had been adequate, in an effort to 
amicably resolve the complaint it offered  to refund  the interest and charges Mrs M paid on 
Loan 2, pay 8% interest on the refunds and remove the adverse entries  about  the loan from 
Mrs Ms credit file.
Mrs M said she would accept  QQs offer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As QQs  offer was in line with my provisional  decision  and both Mrs M and QQ have  given 
me nothing  further  to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached  in 
Ref: DRN80464924my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require  QQ to pay 
Mrs M some compensation  as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mrs M paid on Loan 2;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;  and
3.   Remove any adverse  entries about  Loan 2 from Mrs Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8046492