K821x#15complaint
The executors of the estate of Mrs S complain  that The Prudential Assurance  Company 
Limited incorrectly recorded her as gone  away, meaning it couldnt  send any information to 
her about  her investments. 
As a result, her daughter, Ms S, who was looking after Mrs S affairs as her attorney, was left 
unaware of several  investments and lost the opportunity to take steps to mitigate inheritance  
tax (IHT). 
background
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought the complaint should be upheld. In brief,  
I was persuaded  that Prudentials mistake in recording Mrs S as gone  away  had led to Ms S 
having an incorrect understanding of her mothers IHT position, which in turn led to her 
losing the opportunity, as Mrs S attorney, to take additional steps to mitigate the IHT liability.  
I said that it was difficult to be certain  what steps Ms S mightve taken to mitigate the liability  
if shed known of the other investments. So, I felt a fair solution to the matter  would be for 
Prudential to pay half the IHT bill, as a reasonable compromise.
Ms S, on behalf of her mothers estate, accepted this. Prudential did not. It said,  in brief; 
An IHT liability of around £40,000  for Mrs S estate  had been  identified in 2001.  As a 
result, a whole of life policy had been  put in place specifically to address that liability. 
As the whole of life policy was already in place,  there was nothing  to suggest that if 
Ms S had later become  aware  of the investments any further  action wouldve been  taken 
in respect of IHT planning.
The adviser whod  recommended the investments and the whole of life policy had 
contacted Prudential in 2008 to obtain information about the investments and there  was 
no reason to think this hadnt been passed on to Mrs S.
As such,  Prudential  werent liable for any part of the IHT bill and the offer of £500 made 
in respect of its mistake  remained  fair in the circumstances.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
Ive not been persuaded to change my view as explained in my provisional  decision. 
Prudentials response  to my provisional decision has very much focussed on the whole of life 
policy recommended  to Mrs S in 2001 when a potential  IHT liability  of just over £37,000 was 
identified. 
In short,  Prudential feels that as this policy was already in place, if Ms S had been  made  
aware of the additional investments and the resulting  up-to-date IHT liability  (which  
coincidentally, and despite significant changes in IHT nil rates and their application, was very 
near to the 2001 figure) she wouldnt have taken any further action.
Ref: DRN80070032But I dont agree. Even though the whole of life policy wouldve paid a sum outside the 
estate that could be used to meet the IHT liability (and I understand that it in fact did), I see 
no reason why Ms S would simply have  accepted  this and not taken further action if shed 
been made aware of an amount of nearly  £300,000  that would  increase  the IHT liability. 
Ms S was acting as Mrs S attorney and actively took advice in that capacity about Mrs S 
situation in 2015. At that point it was calculated that there no IHT liability  because of the lack 
of awareness of the Prudential investments. Had the correct  size of the estate been known 
at that point I accept  that a decision could have been taken to simply earmark  the whole of 
life policy  as the means by which to meet any liability.  But having involved an adviser and 
with the estate significantly larger than in 2001 I think, on balance,  its more likely that Ms S 
wouldve been advised to take further  steps to update the IHT mitigation and wouldve 
accepted that advice.
So, in summary,  I remain satisfied that Prudentials error with Mrs S address led to a loss of 
opportunity for Ms S to update  the estates IHT mitigation strategy. And I therefore think its 
fair that Prudential should pay compensation to reflect that loss of opportunity.  
In respect of Prudentials point concerning  the advisers approach  in 2008 to get information 
about the investments, we dont know what interaction there  subsequently was between him 
and Mrs S. But by this point it appears that Mrs S was already demonstrating symptoms of 
the health issues that would eventually lead to Ms S acting with power of attorney. So, in all 
the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to conclude that this intervention by the 
adviser should outweigh Prudentials responsibility to maintain  its records  correctly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I direct The Prudential 
Assurance Company  Limited to pay to the estate of Mrs S a sum equivalent  to half the IHT 
bill incurred  by the estate.
As previously noted, Im not able to direct payments of compensation to an estate, but I hope  
that in the circumstances  Prudential would also make payment of the £500 to Ms S if it 
hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs S, to accept or reject my decision before  11 January 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80070033COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
The executors of the estate of Mrs S complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited incorrectly 
recorded her as gone away, meaning  it couldnt send any information to her about her investments. 
As a result, her daughter, Ms S, who was looking after Mrs S affairs  as her attorney,  was left unaware 
of several investments and so lost the opportunity to take steps to mitigate inheritance tax (IHT). 
background
Mrs S sadly passed away in December 2017. A few months  prior to this Prudential had contacted her via 
the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) seeking to confirm her correct address. She held three 
investments for which it had been unable  to provide annual statements  for a number of years. Many years 
earlier, in 2004, Prudential had for some reason  marked Mrs S file as gone away and although shed  
contacted Prudential at that time to confirm  that it had the correct  address the record wasnt updated.
By 2017 Mrs S affairs  were  being looked after by her daughter,  Ms S, acting  with power of attorney 
following a deterioration  in Mrs S health. Following Mrs S passing Ms S, then as co-executor of 
Mrs S estate, received  information about the investments. It transpired  that the combined  value of the 
investments was around £280,000 and this led to Mrs S estate exceeding her nil rate band.  As a 
result, an inheritance tax bill of just under £40,000  was incurred.
Ms S complained  to Prudential. It acknowledged  its error and indicated that it would give 
consideration to paying the IHT bill. But having completed its investigation  it concluded that only an 
offer of compensation  £500  would  be made.  
Prudential didnt think it should be held responsible  for the IHT bill. It noted that in 2008 
Mrs S had appointed a new financial adviser who had contacted Prudential,  with Mrs S authorisation, 
asking for information on specific investments,  including  the three in question. Prudential provided the 
information to the adviser. It therefore  felt it likely  that the information wouldve been  discussed with 
Mrs S and appropriate action taken if that had been Mrs S wish.  
Ms S didnt  accept this and referred the matter to this service where our investigator reached a 
different conclusion to Prudential. She noted that Ms S had been granted  power of attorney for Mrs S 
affairs in 2009. So she felt that if annual  investment statements had been sent to Mrs S as they 
shouldve been it was likely  Ms S would  then have been aware of the investments and wouldve  taken  
steps to mitigate the potential IHT liability  created  by the investments. 
The investigator therefore  concluded that Prudential  had a degree of responsibility for the IHT bill. But 
because it was likely Mrs S wouldve had some awareness of the investments she felt Prudential 
shouldnt be held responsible for the whole  amount but should pay half as a compromise.
Prudential didnt accept  this. It highlighted  the steps it had taken  to confirm Mrs S address, culminating in 
April 2017 when it sent a letter via the DWP to which thered  been a response signed  by Mrs S. Prudential 
felt that this indicated that Mrs S had still been  involved  in dealing  with her affairs, despite Ms S acting as 
attorney by that point. Prudential therefore didnt  feel it should  be held responsible for any of the IHT liability. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matters  been referred to me to review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Prudential has accepted that it made an error in marking  Mrs S file as gone away. So my role in 
resolving this dispute is to decide what represents fair compensation  for the error  is it Prudentials 
offer of £500, the investigators suggestion of a repayment of half the IHT liability, or something else?
Ref: DRN80070034Prudentials offer is based upon its view that its not solely responsible  for the situation.  Its highlighted  
in particular the contact  made by Mrs S financial adviser  in 2008. It says this suggests Mrs S was 
aware, or ought to have been aware, of the investments  and could therefore have  shared the 
information with Ms S. Prudential also notes that as part of its attempts  to confirm  Mrs S address  the 
new financial  adviser  was asked to confirm it but failed  to do. 
I appreciate Prudentials points. But it remains the case that an error was made. And if that error 
hadnt been made then statements for the investments wouldve been sent each year. And from 2009, 
when she was granted  power  of attorney, Ms S would more likely  than not have been become aware 
of the investments, regardless of what she might or might not have been told previously by Mrs S.
IHT was clearly a concern for Mrs S. Documentation from the time of the original recommendation of 
the largest of the three investments,  in 2001, shows that it was discussed. Further,  in 2015 when 
Ms S sought advice from her own adviser, the matter of IHT and Mrs S estate were discussed. But it 
was determined at that point that the estate fell within  Mrs S nil-rate band  because the three 
investments were not taken into consideration, as Ms S was unaware  of them.      
I appreciate that Prudential took steps to confirm Mrs Ss address, writing to the various  businesses 
involved in the recommendation of the investments. In 2009 it wrote to Mrs S new adviser  but, as 
noted, got no response.  But it was then not until eight  years later,  in 2017, that it took the step of 
using the DWP approach,  which immediately  solved  the problem. If this had been done sooner, it 
seems likely that it wouldve  worked and Ms S, as Mrs S attorney, wouldve  been made  aware  of the 
investments and couldve acted  for instance the outcome of her meeting  with her adviser  in 2015 
might have been very different. 
That said, its very difficult to determine  precisely what would have happened if Mrs S address details  
had been maintained  as they shouldve been. Ms S has provided some comment from her adviser that 
suggests that if Ms S had made  it aware  of the additional  investments it wouldve recommended  
investing some of the money in AIM-listed  shares to take advantage  of Business  Property Relief (BPR). 
This wouldve meant that any invested money would  be free of an IHT liability once invested for two 
years. The adviser acknowledged that this is a relatively  high risk approach and so it would  only have 
recommended investing  around  half the amount in question. 
It strikes me as entirely plausible that this might have happened. But I am conscious  of the risk 
involved and also the general uncertainty around what Mrs S might have known and when, and what  
she ultimately might have wanted to do. But even if the use of BPR had been too risky there remains 
the possibility that if Ms S had been aware  of the investments even earlier, prior to 2015, there 
wouldve been  other options available to explore in respect of IHT planning. 
That being so, I think in all the circumstances the solution suggested by the investigator  that 
Prudential meets half the cost of the IHT bill  is broadly  fair and reasonable.         
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  I currently think the complaint 
should be upheld  and The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should  pay to the estate  a sum 
equivalent to half the IHT bill incurred.
Im not able to direct  payments of compensation  to an estate, but I hope that in the circumstances 
Prudential would also make payment of the £500 if it hasnt  done so already. 
Ref: DRN8007003