K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in connection 
with her home emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints against  insurance 
companies and other regulated financial firms. Where there is a complaint  about a claim 
under an insurance  policy we treat it as a complaint against the insurance company that was 
responsible for dealing  with that claim.
Mrs F has described  herself as an elderly  and disabled lady. She had home buildings  
insurance.
In addition she had a boiler  breakdown policy in the name of a home assistance company. 
Aviva was the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims.  Where I refer to Aviva 
I include the home assistance  company  and the boiler company it used insofar as I hold 
Aviva responsible for their actions.
On the evening of Sunday 27 January 2019 Mrs F heard banging  sounds  and saw sparks 
coming from an electric socket  in her dining area. Her son looked  and said the wall was 
soaking wet. She called her home  insurance  company who on 28 January sent an electrician 
to make the socket  safe and a plumber who said the boiler was leaking.
At that point Mrs F called  Aviva for help under the policy. So she was making a claim under 
the policy.
She complained that  although she needed  a boiler  engineer  - Aviva sent a plumber who 
couldnt fix the boiler and only offered to turn it off, which she didnt agree because  of the 
cold weather. She also complained that he put his feet up on her kitchen counter. 
She also complained  that  having agreed  that it would be on Tuesday 29 January  Aviva 
said it would  send a boiler engineer on Thursday 31 January.
She called her home insurer who sent someone  sooner and fixed the issues.  On Thursday 
31 January Aviva visited and confirmed  the boiler  was fixed.
Aviva sent its final response to the complaint on 11 April 2019. Mrs F brought  her complaint 
to us on 5 June 2019.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think that 
three days was so unreasonable as to require compensation.
Mrs F disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that she had a very dangerous situation  with water leaking 
into an electric  socket and Aviva expected her to wait three days for an engineer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN88012362I can understand that Mrs F needed  the leaking boiler fixed  urgently.
I accept that she found Avivas plumber unhelpful  and discourteous in her home.
But the policy didnt  promise that a boiler engineer would  attend within  three days. 
I dont find it unreasonable that Aviva engaged the boiler manufacturer  to visit Mrs F.
From what  she says,  Mrs Fs boiler  was leaking  but still providing heat.
So I dont  share  her view that Aviva  was responsible for unreasonable  delay in sending a 
boiler engineer.  And in the event, another insurer fixed her boiler on about Tuesday 29 
January.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay compensation to Mrs F.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8801236