K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the way that Advantage Insurance  Company  Limited  dealt with a 
claim that was made against his motor insurance policy.  
background
Mr B was involved  in an accident  where he says a motorcyclist collided with his car as he 
was about to change lanes. Mr B didnt think he was solely to blame for the accident and that 
it was probably a knock  for knock meaning he was as responsible for it as the motorcyclist.  
He said the police, who attended the scene, confirmed this to him too. Mr B also told 
Advantage that the motorcyclist was speeding and he was hard to spot as he was wearing 
black.
Advantage told Mr B that in the circumstances he would be held responsible  for the accident  
as it was for him to ensure it was safe to change lanes before doing  so. It said it wasnt 
possible to prove the motorcyclist was speeding  and also that he was allowed to wear black.  
It also said the motorcyclist would be the vulnerable party  in this situation and that a court 
would side with him.  
Mr B was unhappy with Advantages  decision and complained but it didnt  change  its view. In 
addition to what it had said before  to Mr B it also said that it wouldnt apply for a police report 
because the police wouldnt comment on whose fault it was. 
Mr B then complained to us. He said he was concerned  about  the effect the accident would 
have on his no claims discount (NCD). 
While we were  considering his complaint, Mr B told us that the police had been in touch  with 
him and told him that the third party would be making a substantial personal injury  claim. He 
says he was also told that the police  had a witness statement  that supported his version of 
events- that is that he was still in his lane when the motorcyclist hit him. 
Our investigator thought Advantage couldve done  more in this case though the effect on his 
NCD would  be the same whether he was 100% or 50% at fault. He said it should  apply for 
the police  report  and reconsider its liability stance though he appreciated it would be difficult 
as it had already  admitted liability. He also said it should pay Mr B £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him for failing to apply for the police report  and investigate  the 
incident fully. 
Advantage didnt  agree  and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. It said it hasnt  formally  
admitted liability to the other party. But it questioned what the police report would add- as the 
police werent there at the time of the accident. It said based  on the evidence it had, it was 
correct to say that Mr B would be at fault for the accident. 
Our investigator responded to Advantage to say he noted that liability  hadnt  been admitted 
but still expected it to apply and consider the police  report. He said it should still pay Mr B 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience  it caused him. 
The complaint was then passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN85299632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  it 
in part.
The policy says that Advantage can take over and settle a claim on its insureds behalf if it 
deems it appropriate to do so. This is a common term in motor  insurance policies and not 
one we consider  to be unfair. So we agree for insurers  to rely on it as long as theyre doing 
so fairly  and reasonably. 
Advantage said speed couldnt be proven and also that the motorcyclist  was allowed to wear 
black. It also said it was for Mr B to check  before  changing lanes. I agree  with what  
Advantage has said so I dont think  it acted unreasonably when it gave Mr B this advice. 
But Mr B maintains he was still in his own lane when the motorcyclist  collided with him- so 
he doesnt accept  that he changed  lanes. He told Advantage  that the police attended the 
scene and in these circumstances I think it wouldve been reasonable for Advantage to have 
applied for the police report from the start. If Mr B wasnt disputing how the accident 
happened I wouldve  agreed that there was no need to obtain it. 
Advantage said the police werent there at the time of the accident but I think  that wouldve 
been very unusual.  And I also dont think its a good enough reason not to apply for the 
police report. I think  its reasonable to expect that the police (though  not present at the time) 
wouldve taken statements from the drivers  and other  witnesses who saw the accident. This 
would be contemporaneous and therefore quite persuasive evidence.  From what Mr B said 
he was in slow moving traffic so its likely  that other  drivers may have  seen the accident. So I 
dont think Advantage  acted fairly  and reasonably in not obtaining the police  report. 
Advantage has told us that it would apply for the police report now to appease Mr B and that 
it hasnt yet admitted  liability to the other side in any event. But it insists  its liability stance is 
still correct. If upon receipt  of the police report, which should include the independent  
witness evidence Mr B later became aware of, Mr B is still unhappy with Advantages liability 
stance he may make  a further complaint to it and to us. Advantage should also bear in mind 
that we expect insurers to deal with claims on a without prejudice basis if they dont have 
any instructions to admit liability. That is assuming they reasonably believe that they wont  
be able to defend the claim (in full or in part). 
Advantage doesnt agree that it should  pay Mr B any compensation. I agree with our 
investigator in that Advantage  has caused Mr B unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience by 
not applying for the police report from the start and also by not making it clear that it hasnt 
formally admitted liability. I can see that it wrote to Mr B on 1 and 9 April 2019  to tell him it 
was admitting liability and it had also told him it would do so over the phone.  So I can see 
why Mr B was concerned  by this. I also agree with our investigator that had Advantage been 
clear with Mr B this would  have reduced his stress and perhaps  prevented  him from 
complaining. And bearing in mind that the accident happened in February  this year and 
Advantage only clarified that it hasnt actually  admitted liability  in September  I think £250 
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. 
Mr B has told us he is concerned about  the effect this claim would have on his NCD. While 
the claim remains open on his policy it will count as a fault  claim. This isnt something  
Advantage is responsible for- its industry  practice. Even if Advantage agrees that Mr B was 
Ref: DRN85299633only partly  at fault for the accident and the other  party agrees with this, the fact that 
Advantage will pay 50% of the other  partys  claim without being able to make  a recovery 
means this will still be a fault claim on Mr Bs record. It doesnt mean he was actually at 
fault but it means his insurer has had to make  payments which it cant recover.  And this will 
also affect his NCD.
When Mr B originally  complained to Advantage he said he was also concerned  that the third 
party was claiming  for injuries he didnt sustain. Advantage told us it hasnt yet made any 
personal injury payments  and wouldnt make any without first considering the supporting 
medical evidence.  I think  this is fair and reasonable- assuming that it maintains it stance on 
liability (or agrees  liability  should be split) after it reviews the police report  and the witness  
evidence.
my final decision
For the reasons  above Im upholding Mr Bs complaint in part. Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  should:
Review its liability stance upon receipt of the police report  which it says it has applied for. 
If Mr B is still unhappy he can complain to it and to us.
Pay Mr B £250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. It must  pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
* If Advantage Insurance Company Limited pays interest  and considers  that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs  to withhold income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr B how much its taken 
off. It should  also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8529963