K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc sold her a level term assurance  policy  without 
critical illness cover or income  protection benefit,  which meant she couldnt make  a claim 
when she became ill.
background
In June 2013, Ms T received an email from HSBC advertising Life Cover.  The email said 
Ms T could get a lump sum if she died or was diagnosed with a terminal illness. The email 
went on to say HSBC  had a range or protection products, including Life cover with 
LifeChoices and Critical illness cover with TraumaChoice.
After reading the email,  Ms T called  HSBC to buy a policy   she bought a 15 year level term 
policy with a sum assured of £249,000. HSBC then sent Ms T a letter with her policy 
schedule, and gave  her 30 days to cancel her policy if she changed her mind.  The policy 
schedule set out Ms T had a Level LifeChoice  plan. 
HSBC wrote to Ms T again in June  2016  and 2017.  Each letter was headed 
Level LifeChoice and told Ms T it was important  to regularly review  her policies to make  
sure she was aware of the benefits  and limitations of her cover.  
Ms T unfortunately suffered a brain  haemorrhage in 2016, which led her to go into branch to 
make a claim on her policy. HSBC told Ms T she didnt have critical illness  cover  or income 
protection  Ms T complained as she was under the impression her policy did include this 
cover. She said she was confused about  the different  life protection products and didnt need 
term assurance. Ms T also said shed been  trying to complain, but staff in branch  hadnt 
helped her.
HSBC said it had no evidence of Ms T trying to complain sooner than she did. But to 
apologise for the delay in responding to her complaint, HSBC paid Ms T £50 compensation.  
But HSBC  didnt uphold  any other  aspect of Ms Ts complaint,  saying:
It didnt offer her any advice when she bought the policy
It was standard  procedure to send the product  brochure and key features document,  
which detailed the cover provided and how it worked. Ms T was given a period in 
which she could cancel the policy after buying it, so she had time to read everything 
and make sure it was the policy  she wanted. 
Unhappy with this response,  Ms T referred her complaint to our service. HSBC  said it didnt 
have a copy of Ms Ts call in 2013,  when she bought the policy,  but it provided a copy  of the 
policy booklet. The booklet set out the significant  features and benefits of the policy were the 
lump sum payment if Ms T passed  away or was diagnosed with a terminal illness during the 
term of the policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ms Ts complaint. He didnt think  there was any evidence to 
suggest HSBC  gave Ms T advice when she took out the policy.  He didnt  think critical illness  
insurance was mentioned  in the documents Ms T received,  so he didnt think  there  was any 
evidence Ms T was given,  or asked for a critical illness  policy with income protection benefit.  
So our investigator didnt think HSBC was obliged  to consider any critical illness  claim. Our 
investigator thought  the £50 compensation paid by HSBC for the delay in responding to 
Ms T reflected fairly any trouble and upset  caused.
Ref: DRN82792442Ms T disagreed with our investigators opinion, saying she thought the email  she received 
from HSBC before she bought the policy was misleading. Ms T wanted us to obtain the 
underwriting for her policy as it would  show  the options the underwriter was asked to quote  
for at the time. Our investigator explained  the underwriting file would be necessary only if we 
were considering a claim that had been made,  and it wouldnt help us decide what  policy  
Ms T asked for and whether it was set up correctly. Ms T still disagreed,  so this has come to 
me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Ms T says she wanted  critical  illness  cover  with income protection.  The email  Ms T 
received from HSBC in 2013 was sufficiently clear  it offered two different life protection 
products  Life cover with LifeChoices  and Critical illness cover with TraumaChoice. So if 
Ms T knew she wanted Critical illness cover, then I think she wouldve known shed need to 
buy a TraumaChoice  policy. 
Shes said she had no need for level term protection.  Its not surprising HSBC  no longer has 
a copy of its call with Ms T in 2013, given the considerable time thats passed. I cant know 
what was said during the call, including whether Ms T asked for a critical illness policy  
instead of a life assurance policy.
So Ive looked  at the evidence we do have. The letter Ms T was sent after her phone  call 
with HSBC said she had taken out a LifeCover  product. So even if Ms T had asked for a 
different product, say the TraumaChoice policy, I think HSBC  was clear  it had sold her a 
LifeCover policy. I think the policy summary,  which HSBC says it wouldve sent Ms T, set out 
this product provided cover if Ms T died or was diagnosed with a terminal illness during the 
policy term. At no point is critical illness or income  protection mentioned as one of the 
policys benefits anywhere in the policy documents. So if this wasnt  the product Ms T asked 
for, I would  have expected her to question  this with HSBC sooner than she did. 
I know Ms T says she didnt want level term assurance.  But theres no evidence  to suggest 
HSBC offered her any advice about  what type of insurance might  be suitable for her. It 
doesnt appear, for example, that HSBC assessed  Ms Ts circumstances to decide what type 
of insurance she may need. So, it was for her to decide what cover she needed.
HSBCs responsibility was to provide clear enough  information to allow Ms T to decide  
whether the policy  she bought was right for her. I note Ms Ts policy included cover  if she 
was diagnosed with a terminal illness, so its possible  Ms T confused this with critical illness  
cover. But theres  no evidence to suggest  HSBC  gave  Ms T incorrect information about the 
policy. It also gave her 30 days  to review the policy schedule  to decide if it was right for her.
I dont think theres any evidence to suggest  Ms T was led to believe  her policy  included  
critical illness or term assurance protection, so I dont  think  HSBC is obliged  to consider 
Ms Ts claim for either benefit.  
HSBC offered Ms T £50 compensation to apologise for the delay in responding to her 
complaint. I know Ms T says she went into branch to try to complain on several occasions, 
although Ive not been provided with any supporting evidence of these visits. Based on the 
Ref: DRN82792443evidence available, I think £50 fairly  recognises  the inconvenience caused by any delays on 
HSBCs part in responding to Ms Ts concerns.
my final decision
I realise my decision will disappoint Ms T, but I dont uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8279244