K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs J took out with a store  card in 2001. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mrs J that she had a choice about it. But 
Mrs J says PPI was never mentioned at the sale and was added without her knowledge  or 
consent.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Js application  form for the store card.  This included a 
section on PPI with a space for her to sign if she wanted the PPI. And Mrs J has signed  in 
the space.
Mrs J has said she just signed where  she was told to. But shes not given us much  detail 
about what was said. And theres nothing on the application  form which  suggests she had to 
have the PPI. So I dont think theres  enough  evidence to say she was led to believe she had 
to have the PPI.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think FICL  made it clear to Mrs J that she had a choice 
about the PPI. And that Mrs J chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs J any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs J. But it did have to make  sure she got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover. So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful to her if something  went  wrong.
Mrs J has said she wouldve  been  entitled to significant sickness benefits from her employer, 
and so she didnt  need the PPI. But she hasnt been able to send us any evidence  of these 
benefits. And they wouldve  been unusually generous compared to other  benefits  weve  
Ref: DRN85128022seen. So I think its likely  Mrs Js benefits wouldve been less than she remembers  and so 
the PPI could still have been useful to her. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
wouldve put Mrs J off taking it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8512802