K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Great Lakes  Insurance SE turned down  his claim on his mobile  phone  
insurance policy.
background
Mr R took out a mobile phone insurance policy in January 2018. In February 2018 Mr R 
made a claim for loss of his phone, but Great Lakes turned down the claim as it said loss 
wasnt covered.
Mr R complained as he felt his claim shouldve been  met. Hes also unhappy that Great  
Lakes continued  to take the monthly payment  for the policy after the claim was turned down.
Our adjudicator felt Great Lakes had acted reasonably in not meeting Mr Rs claim but said it 
should refund the payments Mr R had made  for the policy after the claim was turned  down.  
Great Lakes agreed  to this but Mr R disagreed,  so the complaint  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially  uphold Mr Rs complaint.  Ill explain why below.
Great Lakes has sent us a copy of the policy schedule for Mr Rs policy. This says that the 
type of cover  is theft, accidental damage and breakdown. Great Lakes has also sent us a 
copy of the policy terms and conditions, which say that loss of the mobile  phone  is not 
covered.
The policy terms define loss as when the phone has been accidentally left somewhere by 
the policyholder  and they are permanently  deprived of its use. And Great  Lakes records of 
the claim show Mr R said he thought he had either left his phone  in the park or in a taxi or 
that it had fallen from his pocket.  And when Mr R got a police reference number, hed 
reported the loss of his phone rather than a theft.
So I think Great Lakes has acted reasonably in treating Mr Rs claim as a loss claim. And as 
loss isnt covered  by his policy, I think Great Lakes has acted  reasonably in not meeting 
Mr Rs claim.
Great Lakes says this was a standalone policy so Mr R could  have used it to cover any 
replacement phone he got. But theres  no suggestion he did this and so it doesnt  appear 
Great Lakes was covering any risk after this claim was turned  down.
So I think Great Lakes offer to refund the payments  Mr R made towards  the policy since 
March 2018 is fair. And I think the offer to pay Mr R £50 as compensation for continuing to 
take his payments is also fair. I understand Great Lakes has already paid this money into the 
account Mr Rs premiums  were paid from, so I dont  think it has to do anything else.
Ref: DRN80362272my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I think the offer made by Great  Lakes Insurance SE is fair. 
As its already paid this to Mr R, it doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  by 18 December 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8036227