K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt  made  a fair offer in settlement of a claim 
made for storm damage to his conservatory. 
background
Mr Gs Hastings Direct home insurance  is provided by AXA. On 27 May 2018 a storm 
resulted in large hailstones damaging two panels on Mr Gs conservatory. Mr G made a 
claim which AXA agreed to settle.  Initially it only agreed to replace the damage panels but 
after Mr G appealed it agreed to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged panels.
Mr G complained as he thinks the full roof should  be replaced, particularly as the panels  he 
has are no longer available and so the panels would be mismatched.  AXA stood by its 
decisions citing the matching sets part of its policy document.  
As Mr G still didnt  agree he has asked  us to look into this. Our investigator was satisfied  the 
settlement offer made by AXA was fair and in line with our approach to matching sets.  Mr G 
disagrees. He doesnt believe the matching sets provision applies to his roof, as his roof is 
just one item. He considers matching sets to be items that can be used individually  even if 
part is damaged   for example, a bathroom  suite still functions if the sink is broken. The 
matter has been  referred  to me for review and determination. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find the settlement offer 
made by AXA to be fair. I explain  why below. 
AXA has accepted  the claim made because of the storm.  So I dont need to consider 
whether or not the policy provides cover. What I need  to consider is whether the offer made 
by AXA indemnifies  Mr G for the damage caused. 
The pictures provided by Mr G show that two panels  have been  damaged  by hailstones.  The 
remainder of the panels comprising the roof are undamaged. Mr Gs policy  covers  loss or 
damage caused by storm or flood. But it doesnt  cover undamaged items or items that 
havent been lost. 
Under How  we settle claims its explained AXA will repair,  reinstate or replace the damaged  
property. And if it cannot replace or repair the property it may pay for the loss of damage in 
cash. Under Matching sets, suites and carpets its further explained that:
An individual item of a matching set of articles or suite of furniture or sanitary wear or 
other bathroom fittings is regarded as a single item. We will pay you for individual  
damaged items but not for undamaged companion pieces. 
Mr G questions whether this clause applies,  particularly  as he believes the roof its one item. I 
understand the point he is making. The roof is one thing  but its still made up of a number 
of component parts. For example, a tiled roof is one roof, but is made up of hundreds  of tiles 
as well as the supporting  structure.  
Ref: DRN85751302Mr Gs conservatory roof is made up of a number of panels all connected by the supporting 
structure. I accept a broken roof doesnt function properly as a roof, as it could leak and not 
protect the inside from the elements. But that doesnt mean  its necessarily fair to ask an 
insurer to cover items that arent  damaged. As with the above tiled roof example, if tiles have 
been damaged  during a storm  I wouldnt necessarily  expect an insurer  to replace  all of the 
tiles, only those that have been  damaged  (and of course repair any resulting damage).  
Under the terms of the policy, and strictly speaking,  Mr G is only entitled  to have two roof 
panels replaced, as they are the only damaged  items. But that will leave Mr G with odd 
panels. In deciding whether compensation should  be paid for that I need to ask myself 
whether the conservatory panels  form part of a matching set?  Having considered the 
pictures Im satisfied all the panels  were of the same kind and style. And a number of panels  
were required  to make up the whole  roof. Im therefore satisfied the conservatory  panels can 
be considered  a matching set. 
I understand from Mr G that it isnt possible to obtain  two panels to match the undamaged 
ones; due to their age they are no longer made. This means that where Mr G had matching 
panels before,  he will no longer  have that after the two panels are replaced. Quite 
understandably Mr G is upset as his conservatory will have suffered a loss of match   it will 
have odd panels and wont be as aesthetically pleasing. 
Although AXAs policy says it wont pay for undamaged companion pieces I think the loss of 
match is something Mr G ought  to be fairly compensated for. And in deciding what 
compensation is fair, I have borne in mind that only a small number of panels were 
damaged. As well as replacing the damaged panels, AXA has offered compensation of 50% 
of the cost to replace the undamaged panels. I consider that fair compensation for the loss of 
match. If he chooses, Mr G can take that sum and put it towards  replacing  the undamaged 
panels.
Having considered Mr G complaint carefully, I find no basis on which  to ask AXA to replace 
all the panels   they are individual pieces making  up the whole and not all of them  were  
damaged. And for the reasons given,  I find the settlement  offer it has already made  to be fair 
and reasonable and so I make no further  award.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I find the settlement  offer made by AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
be fair and reasonable. I leave it to Mr G to decide whether or not he now wishes to accept 
that offer. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8575130