K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined to pay a 
claim for critical illness  benefit and that it subsequently cancelled her policy.
background
Ms B took out a decreasing term assurance  policy with critical illness  cover which started in 
June 2017. She submitted her application through an independent financial adviser  (IFA).
In December 2017 Ms B was sadly diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS), so a claim was 
submitted under the policy for critical illness benefit.  After reviewing the medical information 
provided by Ms Bs doctors,  Legal  & General  declined the claim and cancelled the policy 
from inception. It provided  a refund of the premiums Ms B had paid. This was because it 
thought Ms B hadnt  answered questions in her application form correctly about  her state of 
health, including symptoms of MS. It said it was permitted to take this action under the 
relevant law. 
Ms B complained. She accepted she hadnt  told Legal & General about some investigations 
she was undergoing, but she didnt  know she had MS. She also said she was led to believe 
her symptoms were associated with the stress of her divorce, which she didnt think  she 
needed to tell Legal & General about.  Legal  & General didnt change its decision so Ms B 
referred her complaint  to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said she thought Ms B needed to answer 
the question posed about whether shed seen a doctor about numbness and pins and 
needles differently, so there was a misrepresentation. So, the investigator thought  the 
decision to decline the claim and cancel the policy was fair and in line with the relevant law.
Ms B didnt agree. She said shed been  advised  to relax as her symptoms might  be caused 
by stress. The investigator  maintained her view so Ms B asked for a final decision. She said 
she understood her mistake but this had left her in a very difficult  position  as a single mother  
being unable  to work full-time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint.
I know this will be very disappointing for Ms B and Im very sorry to hear of her diagnosis  and 
the difficulties  shes now facing. Like the investigator,  I dont think Ms B was aware when she 
applied for the insurance that she would  later be diagnosed with MS. Its clear to me that her 
diagnosis came as a shock to her. But I do think she was asked clear  questions in the 
application form about her current state  of health and I think she should have answered  
some of the questions posed differently. Overall, Im satisfied that Legal & General has acted 
fairly by declining the claim  and cancelling the policy.  I will explain how I reached this 
decision below.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty 
Ref: DRN89611852to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided the insurer has asked a clear  question. If the consumer doesnt take 
reasonable care to answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available  to the 
insurer.
was there  a misrepresentation?
The application Ms B submitted on 23 March 2017 asked the following question:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen a doctor,  nurse or other  health professional for:
chest pain,  palpitations  or irregular  heartbeat?
paralysis, numbness, persistent  tingling  or pins and needles, tremor or facial pain 
other than dental  pain?
memory loss, dizziness or balance problems?
She was also asked:
Apart from anything  you've  already  told us about  in this application, during the last 12 
months have you:
been referred to or had any investigations  in hospital, for example biopsy, scan, 
ECG? Please  ignore  investigations related to pregnancy or infertility where the 
results have been confirmed as normal.
Ms B answered, no, to these questions. 
When considering  Ms Bs claim,  Legal  & General asked her GP to complete a medical 
report. It asked the following question:
When did your patient  first seek advice for their condition/presenting symptoms and how 
long had the symptoms been present before  seeking advice?
The GP wrote:
4.9.15. Sensory  symptoms, pins and needles in left side of body for 1 month  sent for blood  
tests.
23/9/15 referred  to Neurology
As this report showed Ms Bs symptoms  pre-dated the application form, it asked for Ms Bs 
medical records from this period. The records  show that Ms B had undergone an MRI scan  
of her head and spine  in March 2016 after reporting  numbness in her left arm for five to six 
months. The report showed demyelination could be seen in her brain. The consultant 
neurologist in charge of Ms Bs care, Dr M, wrote to Ms Bs GP, saying that the scans should  
be repeated in nine months time and that further  investigation was required. Dr M wrote that 
Ms B had been  sent a copy of this letter. I can also see from her medical records  that she 
discussed this with her GP on 21 March 2016.
Ms B met again with Dr M on 21 June 2016.  Dr M wrote  to Ms Bs GP on 11 July 2016,  
saying that he would  be repeating the MRI scans because  Ms B was still experiencing the 
Ref: DRN89611853symptoms and the recent scans werent of good  quality. He added that he had referred Ms B 
to a colleague who was more specialised  in demyelinating  conditions. Ms B was also sent a 
copy of this letter.
The questions in the application form Ms B completed were clear  and the importance  of 
answering the questions truthfully and accurately was highlighted.  It said if she didnt  it could 
mean a claim might  not be paid. So I think Legal & General brought to Ms Bs attention the 
need to answer  the questions fully and accurately,  and the consequences  if she didnt do so.
With this in mind, Im satisfied  that Ms B needed  to respond positively to the questions Ive 
set out above.  The evidence clearly  documents that Ms B had experienced numbness and 
pins and needles in the five years  prior to completing the application and that shed  seen a 
doctor (her GP and Dr M) about these  symptoms. So, I think she shouldve answered, yes 
to the first question. The letter from Mr M dated  11 July 2016 also shows  that Ms B was 
aware shed been referred for further  MRI scans in June 2016, which was around nine 
months before she completed the application form. So, I think  she also shouldve  answered, 
yes to the second question.
Ms B says that she was told her symptoms  couldve been due to the stress  of her divorce at 
the time.  I can see that when Ms B saw her GP in September  2015, she mentioned she was 
going through a divorce and said she was under a lot of stress. But I cant  see any reference 
in the medical  records Ive seen that would  support  what Ms Bs said about  this being a 
possible cause of her sensory  symptoms.  Had Ms B been told this, I would expect it to have 
been documented in her medical  records. In any event, I dont think this was a reason for her 
not to tell Legal & General about  her symptoms. This is because  the questions  asked about 
symptoms and investigations regardless of the cause. 
Following the application  being  received  on 23 March 2017 Legal  & General sent a copy of it 
to Ms B, asking her to check her details  carefully.  It also provided warnings about the 
consequences of providing incorrect, incomplete  or out of date information. Legal & General 
received an online confirmation from Ms B on 9 June 2017 that all details within  the 
application form were  correct. So, Im satisfied  Ms B had a further opportunity  to ensure the 
answers she gave were correct. As Ive said above, I think Ms B needed  to answer  the 
above questions  differently.
what would  Legal  & General have done differently?
Legal & General categorised Ms Bs misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless . Under  
CIDRA, this would allow it to cancel  the policy and keep the premiums paid. But in this case,  
Legal & General has returned  the premiums paid. This would be the remedy  available to 
Legal & General if it had categorised the misrepresentation as careless. Ive considered 
whether this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under CIDRA, when  its found a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, the insurer can 
take whatever  action  it would have taken if the correct answer been given at the point of 
application. Legal & General has shown  us that if it had known Ms B was under investigation for a 
possible demyelinating condition it wouldnt have offered  her any critical illness cover at all. So, 
even though Legal & General categorised Ms Bs misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless it still 
wouldnt have been able to provide Ms B with critical illness  cover  if it had instead classified it as 
careless. For this reason  I think it was reasonable for it to decline the claim.
Ref: DRN89611854As Legal & General categorised the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless  it cancelled the 
policy, meaning Ms B also lost the life cover it provided. CIDRA says a misrepresentation is 
deliberate or reckless  if the consumer:
a)knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or 
misleading, and
b)knew that the matter  to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or 
did not care whether  or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Ms B has accepts she didnt answer  the questions Ive outlined above  correctly, so I think  she 
wouldve known at the time that answering no to them was misleading. I also think  she wouldve 
understood her investigations were relevant to Legal & General because  she asked specific 
questions about  the symptoms she was experiencing, as well as scans.  So, on balance,  I think it 
was fair and reasonable for Legal & General to categorise the misrepresentations as deliberate  or 
reckless. It follows that I consider Legal & Generals decision to cancel  the policy and refund all of 
the premiums paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and is in line with what CIDRA 
sets out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8961185