K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that U K Insurance Limited wont  investigate  whether its previous 
repairs following a subsidence claim have failed. 
background
In 2011 Mr and Mrs T made  a claim for subsidence  following cracking  to their property. UKI 
investigated the claim at the time and I believe carried out repairs  to the drainage  and went  
on to do crack repairs. In January 2017 Mr and Mrs T changed insurers.  In September  2018 
Mr and Mrs T noticed cracks opening up in the same location as before. They  made a claim 
to their current insurer who sent out a surveyor (B) to inspect the damage. B identified that 
the damage was occurring in the same  place as before and told Mr and Mrs T that they 
should approach their old insurers. B said that under  the ABI (Association of British  Insurers) 
domestic subsidence agreement the claim should be passed  back to the former insurers 
where it has been established  that inadequate  repairs had been undertaken.
UKI said it would  be willing to investigate the matter if it could  be provided with evidence that 
the old repairs were  defective  and any evidence  as to the recent  cause of subsidence.  It said 
that Mr and Mrs Ts present insurers  should  carry out a site investigation to provide this. It 
pointed out that the present insurers werent signatories to the domestic subsidence 
agreement.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that the points put forward by B and the fact 
that damage had appeared in the same place  as before were sufficient for UKI to be 
required to carry out an investigation into the damage. This was regardless of what the ABI 
agreement says.
UKI didn't agree and the matter has been passed  to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the issue is straightforward here. Mr and Mrs T made  a claim to their current insurer 
because the crack repairs carried out by UKI in 2012 appeared to have opened  up. B has 
suggested that the previous investigation into subsidence was inadequate and said that UKI 
hadnt considered whether there were other reasons  for the subsidence.
The purpose of the ABI agreement is so that where  subsidence appears to have occurred 
under a previous insurer that the consumer isnt required to go back and forth between 
insurers. Here  Mr and Mrs T have  identified that there is crack damage in the same place as 
the previous repairs.  This was confirmed by B. This is regardless of whether there may or 
may not be further  subsidence. 
If Mr and Mrs Ts policy had continued, they would be making this claim to UKI. Its duty was 
to carry out an effective and lasting repair. As the repairs only appear to have lasted six 
years, I dont think they can be said, on the face of it, to be effective or lasting.
UKI has said that in that case it would have opened a new claim because of the length  of 
time between the repairs and the cracks opening  up. But I dont think that would have been 
Ref: DRN80058072reasonable. On the face of it Mr and Mrs T have established that there  are cracks in the 
same place as the previous repairs. UKIs response  to our investigators view is that given  
the type of repairs  that took place  in 2012  (refilling cracks and decoration) it is highly 
plausible that they may have failed over five or six years. This would seem to imply that 
such repairs could only be expected to last five or six years which I dont think is reasonable.
So, I think that on the basis that Mr and Mrs T have shown that on the face of it the repairs 
havent been effective, the onus is on UKI to carry out the investigation.  It may be that the 
investigation reveals that movement of the property is reoccurring. If so UKI would have to 
deal with that at the time and act reasonably based  on the information received and, if 
relevant, the ABI agreement. But as Ive said I dont think that it can reasonably be assumed 
that this is a new incidence of subsidence.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to carry out an investigation of the 
damage identified  to Mr and Mrs Ts property 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8005807