K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited refused to replace a diamond 
ring, after he had been told to send it in for a replacement.
background
Mr C had a catalogue  shopping account  with Shop Direct Home  Shopping Limited  (SDHS), 
trading as Very.  The credit facility for the account was provided by Shop Direct Finance  
Company Limited  (SDFC).
In June 2017 Mr C bought  a diamond  engagement  ring for £974.25. It came with a 12 
months warranty. In late January 2019  one of the diamonds fell off. He assumed the ring 
was still under warranty (although it was not), and so he emailed Very to ask for a refund or 
a replacement. He was told to phone a complaints  helpline, which  he did and he was told to 
return the ring for a refund.  He sent the ring in, but a few days  later he received it back,  with 
no notice or explanation. When  he asked  why, Very offered  him £10 as a gesture of 
goodwill. He complained about  that, and the offer was increased to £20, but he was told that 
a refund or replacement would only be available if he returned the ring. When Mr C pointed  
out that that was what he had just tried to do, Very apologised  and offered  him ten percent  
off his next purchase, and arranged  for him to return the ring again. He was told he could  
then order a replacement.  So he returned  the ring a second time.
There was then a squabble between two different  departments  who each said the other was 
responsible for dealing  with the return, and Mr C was passed from pillar  to post. Five days 
after that, on 25 February, Very told Mr C for the first time that he was not eligible for a 
refund, and that he had never  been told that he would get a refund (this last part was 
certainly untrue). This was the first time Very mentioned that the ring was out of warranty. 
Very also told Mr C that he had six weeks to ask for the ring back  or it would be disposed 
of, and he would not be refunded for that either.  So they would keep the ring for which he 
had paid £974 plus interest.
Two days later, Very said it apologised if its earlier emails were unclear, and said the ring 
would be refunded. The next day, it said it could take up to 72 hours  for the refund to be 
processed. The day after that, 1 March, Mr C was told (for the first time) that the ring would 
be inspected,  and that this could take up to 21 days, but this email did not mention that the 
refund was conditional on what  the inspection revealed. Four days after that, Very went back 
to saying that the ring would not be refunded  after all, and that Mr C would lose the ring if he 
did not claim it before the end of the six week period mentioned  earlier,  and he would still not 
be refunded if that happened.  Very also said,  for the first time,  that Mr C should have 
obtained an independent report from a jeweller  or engineer  to verify that the fault was a 
manufacturing fault. Very had never asked Mr C to do this.
Being dissatisfied with Verys response, Mr C brought this complaint to our Service, against  
SDFC. He asked for the ring back, and it was sent to him. Not long after that, a second 
diamond detached from the ring, and this time it was the main diamond.
SDFC explained that two companies had been  involved. SDHS (Very) was the retailer, 
which manages all orders and returns. SDFC only provides the credit  facility. SDFC said that 
Very should not have  told him to return the ring, and so SDFC sent Mr C a cheque for £60 
for poor customer service.  But it said that Very had correctly followed its returns policy  when 
it had declined the refund, because the ring was out of warranty.  It claimed  that this had 
Ref: DRN89639142been explained to Mr C several times. Because the ring was out of warranty, it had not been 
inspected on either of the two occasions  that Mr C had sent it back  (contrary to what it had 
told him would  happen  in its email  of 1 March). It said that it was Mr Cs responsibility to 
prove that the ring had a manufacturing fault,  and that he should  obtain an independent 
report. If the report confirmed that the ring was faulty when sold,  SDFC would contribute £45 
to the cost of the report.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He thought  that a ring which  cost nearly  £1,000 
should be expected to last longer than 20 months  without two diamonds falling off it, and that 
he could see no other damage in Mr Cs photos  of the ring to suggest  that the diamonds had 
come off because the ring had been  damaged while being worn or had been used 
incorrectly. He said Very or SDFC had had two opportunities to inspect the ring, and had not 
done so, despite telling  Mr C that they would. So he decided that the ring had been defective 
when it was sold, that SDFC was liable for that under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974, that Mr C had tried to exercise his right to have the ring replaced or repaired twice,  
and that he now had the right to reject it. The investigator recommended that the ring be 
refunded in full, including the interest payments.
Mr C accepted that decision (having bought  a new ring from a third party). SDFC did not. It 
said that the photos were not clear  enough  to draw  conclusions  about why the diamonds had 
fallen out, and that only an inspection  could verify  this. It said it had been Verys decision, 
not SDFCs, not to inspect  the ring. It maintained that it was for Mr C to prove  that the ring 
was defective  when it was sold, with a report, and that if it was defective then the remedy  
was for the ring to be repaired or replaced. But even if Mr C was entitled  to a refund, SDFC 
argued that he was only entitled to a refund of 50 percent.  It did not explain why, but 
I assume its because Mr C had the ring for 18 months before it broke. SDFC asked for an 
ombudsman to review  this complaint.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows:
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, where it applies, makes a provider of credit (in this 
case, SDFC)  jointly liable for any breach  of contract by a supplier  (Very) if that contract was 
financed by the credit provider. So if Very sold Mr C a defective ring, then SDFC will be 
liable for that. (This is in addition to, and independent of, the warranty.) But SDFC is not 
liable for Verys poor customer  service generally,  such  as the misleading, contradictory, 
inaccurate, confusing  or gaslighting emails  I have described above.  In particular, SDFC is 
not responsible  for Very telling Mr C it would refund the ring and then reneging on that 
promise. Even if that promise was a contract with Mr C, it was not a contract financed by 
SDFC, who only financed the original purchase  of the ring and not any subsequent 
agreement between him and Very. So I cannot comment on whether SDFCs payment of 
£60, or Verys offer of 10% off a future purchase, is fair redress for that.
The breach  of contract alleged by Mr C is that Very sold him a ring which  was not of 
satisfactory quality. Section 9 of the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 made it a term of his 
contract to buy the ring that the ring would be of satisfactory quality. Section 9 specifically 
states that the durability of an item is, in an appropriate case  and I think  this is an 
appropriate case  an aspect of the quality of the item. So if the ring was not durable enough 
Ref: DRN89639143 if it fell apart during ordinary use  then that would amount to a breach of contract, and 
SDFC would  be liable  for it.
Section 19 of the 2015 Act says that if a fault is discovered within  six months of the sale,  
then the item sold is presumed to have been faulty when it was sold,  unless the contrary  is 
proven. But after six months, the onus is on the buyer to prove  that the item was faulty  when 
it was sold. So in this case, it is for Mr C to prove  that the ring was faulty when he bought it. 
(Therefore Very didnt  have to inspect the ring, because it didnt have to prove that it wasnt  
faulty.)
When Mr C first brought this complaint to our Service, he sent us one photograph of the ring 
to show that it had not been damaged where the first diamond  was. SDFC also has this 
photo. After the second diamond fell out, he sent us some more photos.  The original photo is 
clear, but the subsequent photos are too blurry to be of much help. However, as he 
complained and sent the ring back twice  before  the second diamond  fell out, I dont  need  to 
make any findings about  the second  diamond,  and so I wont.
I have examined the first photo carefully.  Although I agree with the investigator  that there are 
no obvious signs of damage to the metal, I notice that the hole where  the first diamond used 
to be is not symmetrical:  the metal on one of the sides (the left side in the photo)  seems  to 
be thicker than on the other side. This might  be normal, but I cant  rule out the possibility that 
it might  be damage caused  since it was bought.  Since the burden  of proof is on Mr C, 
I cannot be satisfied  on the evidence I have  seen so far that the diamond fell out because  
there was something  wrong with the ring all along.
For that reason,  I think that an independent inspection  of the ring, by a third party, will be 
necessary to rule out the possibility that the ring was damaged after it was bought.  But if the 
report concludes that there was no damage, and that the diamonds fell out because  the ring 
was faulty all along, then I will require SDFC to pay for the whole cost of the report  if that 
exceeds £45.
If the ring does turn out to be faulty, then I am currently minded to agree with our 
investigators opinion  of what is fair compensation, and to order  SDFC to pay Mr C a full 
refund. That is because section 23(2)(a) of the 2015 Act required the trader   that is, Very  
to repair  or replace the ring within  a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience  to 
Mr C after he asked it to, and it didnt  do so. And in those  circumstances,  section 24(5)(c) 
allows Mr C to reject the ring.
So my provisional decision is that I am currently not minded to uphold  this complaint, but this 
is likely  to change if Mr C can provide the evidence I have asked for ...
If Mr C is able to obtain  favourable evidence so that I can uphold this complaint, then I am 
currently minded to order Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited to pay him a full refund  for 
the ring, including so much of his interest  payments as relate to the ring.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr C showed the ring to a jeweller,  but the jeweller  was unable to determine why the 
diamond had fallen out, and so he did not give Mr C a written  report.
There is therefore no new evidence,  and so I remain of the view that there is not enough 
evidence to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN89639144my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8963914