K822xcomplaint
Miss T is unhappy with the resolution proposed  by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  
(trading as Barclays Partner Finance), in relation  to her claim  against  it under section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision in December 2018 upholding the complaint. A copy  is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF) accepted  my provisional decision. Miss T did not. Her 
representative said, in summary, that the proposed remedy in my provisional decision is not 
fair and felt that a much greater  award  is warranted  for the reasons set out in its response.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. I remain of the view that the settlement set out in my provisional decision 
represents fair compensation.
Miss Ts representative has provided detailed arguments following my provisional decision, 
which I have read and considered in their entirety. It seems to me that most of the points 
raised were  already  considered by me in the provisional decision. So I dont think there is 
more to add to what I have already said. However,  for completeness,  I have gone  through  
again here what in my view are the key points  raised by Miss Ts representative. 
In essence, Miss Ts representative wants the credit agreement to be cancelled and all 
the payments  made by Miss T returned to her. It has cited some court judgements  in this 
regard. 
I have considered the representatives submission that the contract should be rescinded. 
I accept that a court might decide that Miss T was entitled to rescind the purchase and 
credit agreements but my role here is to award  what I consider to be fair compensation. I 
can also direct BPF to take such steps as I consider  just and appropriate,  whether or not 
a court  could  order those  steps to be taken.   
As I said in the provisional decision,  in my view Miss Ts complaint is not so much  about 
the solar panels  themselves but that the fact that they were  misrepresented  to be self-
funding. So removing the effect of that misrepresentation  would put right the financial 
impact to Miss T over the term of the loan. Further, it is not disputed that it would cost 
BPF to remove the solar  panels.  So I dont think BPF should  be required to do that if it 
puts Miss T in a position  where the panels are self-funding. Allowing Miss T to keep the 
panels may also enable her to benefit  from lower  electricity bills or FIT payments once 
the initial 10 year period  has expired.
So I remain  of the view that a fair and simple approach  is to arrive at a reasonable 
estimate of the potential  savings (and income) to Miss T from the panels over the 10 
Ref: DRN82953942year term of the loan and simply rework  the loan so that she pays that amount over that 
term; and she keeps  the solar panel  system.  
Miss Ts representative has said that any potential savings should be excluded from the 
compensation calculation and in any case the estimated savings figure based on 
assumed usage of 50% of electricity  generated is too high.
As I have already  said, when a consumer decides to install a solar  panel system, it is 
reasonable to assume that their key objective is to generate electricity firstly for their own 
use, thereby saving  their energy cost. So I consider that to completely ignore this 
important benefit  when arriving at fair compensation is not reasonable.  
It is difficult to work out what  exactly this savings would be. Miss Ts representative has 
understandably compared the difference in Miss Ts usage from the grid immediately 
before and after installation of the solar panels  to consider what these  savings were  and 
has referred to me some data around that period. 
As I noted  in the provisional decision, the Energy  Savings Trust website gives a table  of 
potential savings under  various scenarios depending  on the location and the consumers 
lifestyle rather than a specific percentage. And the RECC website essentially refers the 
consumers to the Energy Savings Trust website. 
Even with respect  to the same consumer, the savings figure  could change  from time to 
time. And when we are considering a period that could extend for a considerable number 
of years determining a precise figure  is very difficult.  
BPFs savings assumption  is based  on how the export FIT income is calculated and 
paid, as set out by the government. The export  FIT income is calculated on the 
assumption that 50% of the energy produced will be exported to the national  grid. So 
there is an implied assumption here that the remaining  50% is used by the consumer. 
Indeed Miss T has been receiving export FIT from the government, calculated at 50% of 
the energy produced. Given what I said earlier, it doesnt seem unreasonable  to me for 
BPF to use an assumption made by the government when calculating the FIT payments.
I have also already dealt at length the potential future cost compared to the potential 
future benefits. I have  acknowledged that there may be a need to replace the inverter  
sometime in the future  at a cost (currently) of about £800 and there could be some  
maintenance costs.  
On the other hand, the BPFs offer essentially means that the entire  cost of loan 
repayment would broadly  offset the potential saving during the first 10 years. 
Thereafter there would be no loan repayment cost to offset  the benefits. The BPFs 
calculation shows that the cumulative potential benefit to Miss T for the next 10 years  
(i.e. after the first 10 years) would be almost £13,000 and about £16,800 over the 
reminder of the expected lifetime of the solar  panels.  I appreciate that these are 
estimates. However these  figures suggest  that the potential future benefit to Miss T is 
likely be to a lot higher  than potential future  costs.
I also remain of the view that the assumptions used by BPF such  as the electricity price  
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI) do not seem 
Ref: DRN82953943unreasonable. In fact as noted in the provisional decision, the actual degradation to date 
appears to be lower than that assumed by BPF.
As I said before, arriving at fair compensation is not an exact science.  And in cases like 
this there  are many variables and some assumptions about future are needed. So, my 
consideration is whether the offer made by BPF is fair overall.  And for the reasons given, 
I am satisfied that it is. 
I appreciate that this matter has caused some  trouble and upset to Miss T. She incurred 
substantially additional cost compared to the benefits she received, and that must  have  
been a distressing experience for her. But I have to bear in mind what  I am considering 
here is what BPF did or failed to do, and whether that caused any avoidable  trouble or 
upset to Miss T.  
For the reasons  I have  given in my provisional decision, it is my view that BPF unfairly 
rejected her claim. 
Further, I see that in September  2017 Miss T called BPF requesting  to stop the 
repayments. She says that she did so as she was finding it difficult  to meet  the 
repayments. I see that BPF told her that it could not stop the repayments  unless  we 
make the request. In my view, BPF did not adequately engage with her at that time in 
ascertaining her difficulties and assisting her as may be necessary. I see this clearly 
caused some trouble  and upset for her. 
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that a payment of £300 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss T by BPF is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint. In full and final settlement of it, 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  should:  
(a)allow Miss T to keep the solar panels;
(b)estimate  the potential savings and income  to Miss T from the panels  over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework the loan such that she pays no more  than that amount. This 
means essentially updating  the calculation  BPF has provided to us. 
As I have said in my provisional decision,  there is no need  to replace the electricity 
generation figures used in the calculation with actual figures to date, as BPFs 
assumption slightly favours Miss T. However, allowance could be made  for Miss Ts 
actual electricity tariff if she is able to provide that information;
(c)allow Miss T to repay the loan balance interest free and also give her the two options to  
repay the amount,  as it has offered;
(d)pay £300 to Miss T for the trouble and upset  caused.
The remedy  requires reworking of the loan as opposed to cancellation of the loan from the 
outset. Also,  I have  not seen any evidence to indicate that Miss Ts credit has been 
Ref: DRN82953944adversely affected  as a consequence  of the loan. But if so, then I consider it fair that the 
adverse information  as a consequence  of the loan be removed. 
In the circumstances and subject to the removal of any adverse credit  information as noted  
above, it is reasonable that the loan agreement is not removed from her credit records but 
the records should reflect the correct  position  after the remedy  has been effected.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Raj Varadarajan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82953945copy of the provisional decision
complaint
Miss T is unhappy with the resolution proposed  by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading  as 
Barclays Partner Finance), in relation to her claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. 
background
In early 2014, My Planet  Ltd (My Planet), a company  that supplied and installed solar photovoltaic 
micro-generation systems  cold called Miss T. Following her meeting with a sales representative  of My 
Planet, Miss T agreed to enter  into a contract with it to supply and install a solar  panel  system costing 
about £8,700. She also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed  sum loan with Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) to fund this. The panels were installed shortly after. 
In late 2016 Miss T made a claim  under  s.75 to BPF through her representative. In summary, the 
representative said that Miss T was told by My Planet  that the solar  panels  would  be self-funded and 
that the loan repayments would be more than offset  by the feed-in tariff (FIT) income.  But that did not 
happen. Instead, her monthly loan repayments have been much higher than the FIT income. The 
representative said that Miss T was led to believe that her agreement  was taken  out over a period of 
two years and she wasnt aware that the loan is for 10 years. 
The representative also said that BPF failed to assess the creditworthiness of Miss T when it provided 
her with the loan, and shes  now struggling  to meet the monthly loan repayments.  It further said that 
Miss T was told that the inverter would  be under warranty for 20 years  but she received no guarantee 
that the warranty is for 20 years.
BPF responded to say, in summary, that it doesnt agree  that the benefits were misrepresented based 
on evidence available to it. It said that it was clear from the paperwork that the estimated FIT 
payments were significantly lower than the loan repayments. It also said that Miss Ts solar panel 
system was performing as indicated. 
Not happy with BPFs response, Miss T brought her complaint  to us. Following our involvement BPF 
made an offer to compensate Miss T. In effect,  BPF worked out what it considered  to be an estimate 
of the potential  savings and income  to Miss T from the panels over the 10 year term of the loan and 
reworked the loan such that she pays  no more than that amount over that term. 
The calculation showed that the likely  savings and income from the solar panels over 10 years to be 
£10,237. (I have asked our investigator  to send a copy of this calculation to Miss Ts representative.) 
BPF said that originally  the total loan cost was £13,675.60. As at June 2018  when the calculation  was 
made, Miss T had paid back £5,304. This meant that as at that date she owed a further £6,324.60
However BPF now said that it is prepared  to reduce the total loan cost to match the estimated saving  
of £10,237. So after deducting the amount  of £5,304 Miss T had already paid, she is now required to 
repay £4,933  instead of £6,324.
BPF said that Miss T can pay the balance  of £4,933 interest free. BPF also offered two ways for Miss 
T to repay  this outstanding amount: (1) Continue to pay the monthly loan repayments of about  £113 
as she is currently doing until the loan balance is paid off or (2) Spread  the loan balance over the rest 
of the loan term (73 month as at June 2018). This would bring the monthly repayments down  to about 
£67. 
Miss T did not accept  this offer. Her representative raised several points as to why the offer isnt 
acceptable. It said,  in summary:  When calculating redress, the revised loan figure  should  only match  
the estimated FIT income for 10 years.  It says that is what My Planet told Miss T would  happen. So 
Ref: DRN82953946BPF should not include any energy savings  estimate into the redress calculation. Compensation 
should also be paid for ongoing costs Miss T could incur during the lifespan of the solar panel system. 
This should include  the cost of replacing the inverter, which it says will need  to be replaced  once.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant  law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I would  consider to have  been  good industry  practice at the relevant  time.
In this case the relevant law includes Section 56 and Section 75 of the CCA, which provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.  Section 75 states: 
" If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract,  he shall have  a like claim  against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and severally liable  to the debtor..
As Miss T paid for the solar  panels through a fixed sum loan,  BPF agrees  that Section 75 applies  to 
this transaction. This means Miss T could claim  against BPF  the creditor  for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by My Planet  in the same  way she could have claimed  
against My Planet, the supplier. So I have taken Section 75 into account when deciding what  is fair in 
the circumstances of the case.  
Section 56 is also relevant.  This says that any negotiations between Miss T and My Planet  as the 
supplier are deemed to have been conducted by My Planet as an agent  for BPF.  
what happened? 
If there  is a dispute about what  happened, I must decide on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what  
I consider is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available  and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.  
Miss T says that she was cold called and was told that the installation would be entirely self-financing. 
Theres nothing to suggest that she had any prior interest in solar panels before she was approached 
by My Planet. It is difficult to see why she would  agree to the installation of the solar panels  financed 
through a loan that would significantly increase her monthly outgoings  which, she says, have put her 
in financial difficulties. Therefore I think it is unlikely  that Miss T would have agreed to install the 
system and take a loan with BPF unless she was led to believe that the installation would  be self-
funding and come at no extra financial burden to her. 
In reaching my conclusion I have taken into account other submissions  made by Miss T. For example, 
Miss Ts representative has provided us with a copy of My Planets sales literature.  Miss T doesnt say 
that she was given this particular  literature. However I note that some of the statements made in the 
literature are similar to what Miss T remembers  being told. For example, it refers to the solar panel 
system being self-funding and that the consumer would  never be out of pocket.  So I consider  it 
more likely  that its contents would have featured at the sales meeting.  
Then there is the action taken by Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) against My Planet. 
As I understand it, RECC administers the renewable energy consumer code and ensures  that its 
members comply with the Code.  
The RECC investigated My Planets conduct and in September  2014 determined that My Planet was 
in breach of Section 5.2 of the code (which essentially required members not to provide false  or 
Ref: DRN82953947misleading information  to consumers).  RECC also found that My Planet was in breach of Section 5.4 
(which was essentially  about  providing  clear  and accurate  information about the cost and benefits  of 
the product sold). 
I acknowledge that what happened in respect of the cases RECC  looked at may not necessarily have  
happened in Miss Ts case. Whilst the RECC Panels  findings are general and do not refer to Miss Ts 
case, the findings  suggest  that there were conduct concerns in the areas relevant  to Miss Ts 
complaint and at around the time she was sold the solar  panel system  and the loan. 
Given the cumulative  weight of evidence presented to me, I have concluded that it is more likely than 
not that the salesperson led Miss T to believe that the solar panels  would  be self-funding and that the 
savings would  be sufficient  to cover  the repayments necessary under the loan agreement. 
Was the solar panel  system self-funding at no extra cost to Miss T? 
The next question for me to consider is whether the solar panel system was indeed self-funding at no 
extra cost to Miss T, such that the monthly savings  she would achieve was sufficient to pay the 
repayments necessary under the loan agreement. 
Im aware that there is a disagreement as to what exactly Miss T was led to believe when  My Planet 
told her that the solar panels werent  self-funding. But in any case it seems to me that both parties  
agree that the solar panels werent self-funding over the term of the loan.
In my view,  for the solar  panels  to be self-funding  and come at no extra  cost to Miss T, the savings 
and income  she would achieve ought to have been sufficient to pay the repayments necessary  under 
the loan agreement. 
Miss Ts expected savings and incomes from the solar panels are from: 
(1)generation tariff income
(2)export tariff income and 
(3)savings to Miss T by using the electricity generated by the panels instead of buying it from the 
energy company
From the submissions I can see that the expected total return in the first year from the three items 
came to about £800 whereas the loan repayments were about £1,400 per year. 
So Miss T was likely to be out of pocket  by about £600  in the first year and that would  broadly have  
been the situation during  the term of the loan. This means that even based on this estimate the 
system wasnt self-funding.  So I conclude  that My Planet misrepresented the benefits. 
Miss Ts representative also says that Miss T was led to believe that her agreement  was taken out 
over a period of two years and she wasnt aware  that the loan is for 10 years.  However I see that the 
loan agreement clearly sets out that the length  of the agreement  was 120 months. I have carefully 
considered what Miss T has said in this regard but I am not persuaded  that the sales representative 
would have told Miss T that the loan is for a 2 year term.
has Miss T suffered  a loss? 
Miss T had no prior experience about the solar panel system. She was cold called  by My Planet. I am 
satisfied that Miss T decided to purchase the system relying on the representation made  by My Planet 
that the system would be self-funding. 
For the reasons  I have  already explained,  I find that Miss T has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation by My Planet. Notwithstanding exactly what Miss T was told, the system wasnt 
self-funding. Miss T ended up paying a significant sum over the savings. And as BPF has equal 
liability for the misrepresentation made by My Planet, I find that it is responsible for Miss Ts loss. 
Ref: DRN82953948fair compensation
Both BPF and Miss Ts representative have come up with their proposals  as to how fair compensation 
should be calculated. Miss Ts representative  says that it consulted the same expert BPF consulted in 
arriving at its proposed redress methodology. Yet the proposals are quite different. I had sight of 
BPFs expert  report, but not the report the expert produced for Miss Ts representative. Nevertheless, 
I have taken into account what Miss Ts representative has provided to us. 
Our role is to help settle  individual disputes between consumers and businesses  providing financial 
services  fairly and reasonably  with minimum  formality. In cases of this nature, determining fair 
compensation is not an exact science. My aim here is to arrive at a fair and reasonable outcome that 
would put Miss T, as far as possible, in the position she would have been in but for My Planets 
misrepresentation of the benefits, taking into account her objectives at the time.  
In my view Miss Ts complaint is not so much  about the solar panels themselves but that they were  
misrepresented to be self-funding. So, I dont  think that removing solar  panels  and unwinding the loan 
would necessarily be appropriate in this instance. Further, it is also accepted that it would cost BPF to 
remove the solar panels,  which could be significant. So I dont think it should  be required to do that if 
BPF puts Miss T in a position where the panels are self-funding over the term of the loan. Allowing 
Miss T to keep the panels may also enable her to benefit from lower electricity  bills or FIT payments 
once the loan has been repaid. In fact I note that both parties suggested remedy is to reduce the loan 
so as to make it self-funding, but the disagreement  is about the extent to which the loan should  be 
reduced. 
savings
BPF says that its offer would  effectively make the solar panels self-funding in the sense that the loan 
repayments over the term of the loan would broadly match Miss Ts potential savings and the FIT 
income from the solar  panels. 
Miss Ts representative however says that Miss T was told that the loan repayments would be offset 
by the FIT income and so the loan should be reduced to match the FIT income.  It says that the 
savings should not be taken into account when arriving at fair compensation. 
Whilst I am satisfied that Miss T was misled  into thinking that the solar  panels  would  be self-funding, it 
is difficult for me to know exactly how this was explained to Miss T. 
The RECCs findings as noted earlier  appear to suggest that at least  on occasions  My planet may 
have misled their consumers  into thinking that the loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
income. On the other  hand,  Miss T was provided with a contract that stated the first year returns  
would be about £800. I see from the calculation  in the contact that this figure  includes not only the FIT 
income but also the savings in electricity  (assuming  50% usage).
However, even if I accept  what Miss T and her representative say, I think  that when a consumer 
decides to install a solar  panel system  it is reasonable to assume that their key objective is to 
generate electricity firstly for their own use, thereby  saving their energy cost.  So I consider that to 
completely ignore this key benefit when  arriving  at fair compensation  is not reasonable. 
I see that, currently, the Energy  Savings Trust website gives a table of potential savings under various  
scenarios depending on the location and the consumers lifestyle rather than a specific percentage. 
And the RECC website essentially refers the consumers to the Energy Savings  Trust website in this 
regard. 
It is clear that there are various factors  that determine the actual level of savings a consumer could 
make. Even  with respect to the same consumer, that figure could  change  from time to time.  So in my 
view determining a precise figure of what this savings would be over a period of 10 years is very 
difficult. 
Ref: DRN82953949As I said, in cases of this nature, determining fair compensation  is not an exact science and my aim 
is to arrive at an outcome that is fair and reasonable overall. I see that the BPFs savings  assumption 
is based  how the export  FIT income is calculated  and paid, as set out by the government. The export 
FIT income  is calculated  on the assumption that 50% of the energy produced will be exported to the 
national grid. So there is an implied assumption here that the remaining 50% is used by the 
consumer. Indeed Miss T has been receiving export FIT calculated at 50% of the energy produced. In 
the circumstances and given  what I explained  above,  I find that in order to arrive at a fair 
compensation figure, estimating potential savings by assuming 50% usage is not unreasonable.
other assumptions
I see that BPFs calculation has assumed the first years  annual energy  generation  to be 3,762kWh 
and then it allows for an annual degradation of 0.5%. However Miss T now has four years actual 
data. So I consider it reasonable to replace the assumed annual electricity  generation  with actual 
figures to date. 
Having said that, I see from the last available meter reading taken  in August 2018 that her solar panel 
system has generated 16,330 kWh over the last four years or so. This works  out to an average of 
3,847 kWh a year. BPFs calculation  has assumed  a starting electricity  generation of 3,762 kWh 
reduced by 0.05% each year. 
So in essence  BPFs calculation has assumed a lower electricity  generation  than the actual to date. 
This slightly favours Miss T. It is because  an assumption of lower generation  figure means  that the 
FIT and the assumed savings  would  be lower, which  in turn means  the compensation figure would be 
higher. But I dont think  that it is necessary  for BPF to revise the figures in this instance given that the 
difference is not significant and it benefits Miss T. 
I also note from the calculation  that BPF has assumed starting electricity  tariff of 15.13p.  I see that 
this is based on Miss Ts electricity statement for the period June 2014 to June 2015,  the period 
following the installation of the solar panels. This shows the unit rate to be predominantly 15.13p. So 
the assumption doesnt seem unreasonable.  But if Miss T is able to provide the actual tariffs to date, I 
consider it reasonable to update  the calculation with the actual tariffs to date, and then estimate the 
tariff for the future  years.  
I have also considered the other  assumptions used by BPF such as the electricity  price  inflation, the 
degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). In my view they do not seem  
unreasonable. For example,  the actual average RPI for the last five years doesnt seem to be far off 
the assumed figure.  
maintenance and inverter  cost
Miss Ts representative said that she should be paid compensation for the ongoing costs our client 
will endure throughout the lifespan of the system. This point is not elaborated, but her representative 
goes on to explain that she will need  to replace  her inverter at some point.  
I see from the information provided  by Energy  Savings  Trust that solar  panels  do not need a lot of 
maintenance but usually would need the inverter replacing sometime during the lifetime of the panels 
at a cost (currently) of about £800. As such  I acknowledge that Miss T could  have some  maintenance 
costs by keeping the solar panels. On the other hand, I also acknowledge  that Miss T would have 
some benefit beyond the initial 10 years by way of some savings and the FIT income, which is not 
factored into the redress calculation  offered by BPF.
It is impossible  to know what the extent of those costs  and the benefits  would  actually be. However, 
based on the available  information including the expected FIT payment and savings, I think that the 
potential benefit should be adequate to offset  any reasonable maintenance  costs. Therefore I am not 
presently persuaded  to make an award in this regard. 
Ref: DRN829539410other issues
Miss Ts representative has also said that BPF failed to consider whether the loan was affordable to 
Miss T but it has not provided any evidence or submission to show why that was the case. 
As I understand it, Miss T has been able to make  the required repayments under the loan. So, on the 
face of it, given the lack evidence to the contrary, it does not appear that the loan was unaffordable  to 
the extent that she was unable to service it. Having  said that, I also note that Miss T told us a couple 
of times  that she was finding it difficult to meet  the repayments required under  the loan.
I consider that the proposed remedy addresses this issue going  forward. Firstly,  the proposal  reduces 
Miss Ts loan repayment.  Also, as previously noted, BPF has agreed that Miss T could repay the 
balance loan interest free. It has also agreed that if she so wishes, she could pay the loan over the 
reminder of the term. This reduces her monthly repayment to about  £67 from the current £113. 
As such, subject to any further submissions I may receive, I am not presently minded  to make  any 
further allowance as regards  to this issue. But I will review  any further submissions  Miss T may want 
to make in this regard.
Miss Ts representative told us that this whole matter has caused  trouble and upset  to Miss T and I 
agree. Miss T incurred substantially  additional cost compared to the benefits she received, and that 
must have been a distressing experience for her. But I have to bear in mind what I am considering 
here is what BPF did or failed to do, and whether that caused any avoidable  trouble or upset to Miss 
T.
I see that Miss T initially raised her claim with BPF in November 2016 and it responded to her in 
January 2017. So there doesnt seem to be any undue delay  in dealing with her claim. However, for 
the reasons I have given, it is my view that BPF unfairly rejected her claim.  This caused  trouble and 
upset to Miss T and she had to raise a complaint  about  this unfair  rejection of the claim.  
Further, I see that in September 2017 Miss T called BPF requesting to stop the repayments.  She says 
that she did so as she was finding it difficult to meet  the repayments. It is not clear  what  exactly  she 
told BPF at the time. BPF told us that she wanted to stop the repayment simply  because the 
complaint is with us. In any case I see that BPF told her that it could not stop the repayments unless 
we make the request.  In my view, BPF did not adequately engage with her at that time in ascertaining 
her difficulties and assisting her as may be necessary. I see this also caused some trouble  and upset  
for her as it resulted in further  communication between us, BPF and Miss T. 
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that a payment of £300 to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience caused  to Miss T by BPF is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I should  receive  from either party by 3 January 2019, my 
provisional decision  is that this complaint should be upheld. 
In full and final settlement  of it, I am minded  to require  Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  to: 
(a)allow  Miss T to keep the solar  panels;
(b)estimate the potential savings and income to Miss T from the panels  over the 10 year term of the 
loan and rework the loan such that she pays no more than that amount. This means essentially 
updating the calculation BPF made in June 2018  but allowing  for Miss Ts actual electricity  tariff 
if she is able to provide  that information; 
Ref: DRN829539411(c)allow  Miss T to repay the loan balance  interest free and also give her the two options to repay  the 
amount, as mentioned earlier.
 
(d)Pay £300  to Miss T for the trouble and upset caused.
The remedy  requires  reworking of the loan as opposed to cancellation  of the loan from the outset. 
Also, I have not seen any submission to indicate that Miss Ts credit file has been adversely affected 
as a consequence of the loan. In the circumstances, it is reasonable that the loan agreement  is not 
removed from her credit  records  but the records should reflect the correct  position after the remedy  
has been effected. 
Raj Varadarajan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8295394