K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D says that Leek United Building  Society (LUBS) mis-sold them a regular 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
In 1989 Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with LUBS. At the same time they took out a 
regular premium PPI policy to cover their mortgage  repayments. The policy was taken in Mr 
Ds sole name and covered him if he was unable  to work due to accident  or sickness or lost 
his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought Mr and 
Mrs D made  it clear  they wanted  the policy in their mortgage application and thought  it 
wouldve provided a useful benefit for them.
Mr and Mrs D disagree.  They say PPI was added to the mortgage without their knowledge or 
consent. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
LUBS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs D that they had a choice in taking the policy.  Mr 
and Mrs D say this wasnt done, but they havent given us much detail about  why they 
thought this which is understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. So 
Ive relied more on what the documents from the time show and what  I think  is most likely to 
have happened.
LUBS has given us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds signed mortgage application. I can see there is 
a separate section on it that deals with PPI where  they are asked:
 Do you require PAYMENT PROTECTION INSURANCE covering sickness, accident and 
unemployment? Below this are two tick boxes  with the words yes or no next to them. I can 
see that the yes box has a tick in it and the word Quote has been handwritten in next to it. 
So I think PPI was discussed and because Mr and Mrs D couldve  decided not to take it and 
were able to get a quote for it they wouldve understood it was optional.  And because  PPI 
was taken solely in Mr Ds name - even  though  they were jointly  responsible for the 
mortgage and both working - I think they wouldve understood the cover was optional  and 
chose just to cover  Mr D. If it wasnt, I wouldve thought both parties  to the mortgage  would 
need to be covered. 
I dont think LUBS advised Mr and Mrs D to take the policy. What this means is that it didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs D, it just gave  them information about PPI. This information 
Ref: DRN85130712needed to be given in a way that was clear,  fair and not misleading so they could make an 
informed choice about taking out the policy.
I dont know if LUBS gave  all the information as it shouldve. But I think  that Mr and Mrs D 
wouldve still taken out the policy because:
Mr D was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Mr D says he wasnt entitled to any sick pay and had no other  
way of paying his mortgage  if he couldnt  work. A successful claim on the policy  
wouldve covered  his mortgage payments if he was unable to work due to accident 
and sickness or unemployment  for up to 12 months per claim. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs D in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy wasnt affordable for and if they decided  they 
no longer wanted the policy they could cancel  it.  
This means  Mr and Mrs D isnt worse  off as a result  of any wrong doing by LUBS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Leek 
United Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8513071