K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Miss R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this because  I've seen a copy of Miss Rs signed credit card application  form. 
On this form theres an option for PPI that has a typed X next to a box for adding 
Credit Card Repayment insurance (PPI) to the account. 
As this policy was sold during a meeting and some  of Miss Rs personal details have 
been typed in too, I think its more likely  than not that the option  to take PPI was 
chosen following  a discussion  between the adviser  and Miss R and then the X was 
typed in by the adviser to reflect what shed decided, before Miss R signed the 
overall agreement.  
Ive carefully considered  what Miss R has said about  not being aware that PPI had 
been added. But Ive also considered that the PPI premiums would have appeared 
on Miss Rs monthly credit card statements  when  she had an outstanding balance. 
So I think that Miss R would have questioned the PPI with Halifax  much sooner than 
she did if this was the case. But I havent seen evidence that she did and PPI 
remained on the account for some time after it was taken out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss R so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss R has said - including what shes said about her sick pay 
entitlement. But this after a few months  Miss Rs sick pay would have  decreased to half pay. 
This PPI policy could have paid out for up to 12 months, which  is longer than Miss Rs full 
sick pay. 
Ref: DRN83487682Ive also noted  what Miss R has said about a separate policy  she had. But based on what 
shes said, it seems  reasonable  to assume  that it was linked to the mortgage  shes 
mentioned and if she was unwell  and unable to work it wouldnt necessarily help pay the 
credit card repayments that this PPI policy protected.
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Miss R back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Miss R now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8348768