K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about action taken by Lloyds Bank  PLC to recover  from Mr M a commercial  
debt that has been  outstanding since 2011  when  his former limited company stopped 
trading. In seeking  repayment, Lloyds relies  on Mr Ms personal guarantee from 2009  and 
the security of a legal charge over a property that he owns but his parents live in. Mr M 
thinks Lloyds has treated him unfairly and not adhered to lending  standards.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round. 
A useful  starting  point  here is that although secured on premises  that are home to Mr Ms 
parents, the debt at the heart of this complaint  is not a residential  mortgage regulated by the 
Mortgage and Home Finance Conduct of Business  rules, known as MCOB. Its the residue 
of a commercial lending facility, and not subject to regulation. Thats not to say Lloyds 
doesnt have an obligation to treats its customer fairly, but where, as here, the customers 
liability is for a commercial debt, the test is less onerous than if it were a regulated  mortgage.
Like the investigator, my consideration of the complaint is confined to events since 
March 2014, when an ombudsman colleague  issued  a decision on Mr Ms previous 
complaint. That said,  the historical context is highly relevant.  Mr M has said in his evidence 
to us that Lloyds  has denied  him the principle of breathing space, and not taken  his situation 
into account to reach  a fair outcome. I dont mean this unkindly,  but I think this is one of 
those situations  where  the fresh perspective  of someone who is independent from it is 
beneficial. 
Wed expect a lender  to consider offering help to debtors going through financial difficulties, 
especially where theres a way of getting the debt back on a sustainable footing  either 
because the debtors circumstances improve, or because changing the debt in some way 
would resolve the problem.  Having considered  everything that both sides  have said and 
provided, it seems to me that by any reasonable impartial analysis, Lloyds has been 
remarkably patient with Mr M. Its not required to be indefinitely.
While Lloyds should only consider enforcement of its security as a last resort,  it seems to me 
that it no longer  has any confidence in Mr Ms ability to come up with and then maintain a 
workable solution  that will result in him repaying the debt. In that context, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to have taken  the action it took in 2018.  
Ref: DRN80186492my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Lloyds Bank  PLC. My final decision concludes  
this services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8018649