K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the admin charge  Devitt  Insurance Services Ltd (Devitt) applied  when 
he changed his address.  Hes also unhappy with the customer  service received when he 
questioned this charge.
background
Mr H had an insurance policy arranged  through Devitt. He called to notify  it of a change  of 
address. At this point he was told there would be an admin fee of £30. Mr H wasnt  happy  
with this and told the call handler  he felt the amount was excessive given how long it took 
the call handler  to complete the change  of address. Mr H also says the call handler was 
obstructive and wouldnt let him speak to a manager. He raised a formal complaint with 
Devitt.
Devitt responded  to Mr Hs complaint saying the admin fee covered costs it incurred when 
making changes  to a policy and Mr H wouldve been presented with these fees before he 
took the policy. It also said it would look into how Mr H was spoken  to as an internal matter. 
It didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with this response Mr H referred  the complaint us. One of our investigators  looked 
into his complaint. He was satisfied Devitt was entitled to apply the admin  charge and it had 
been explained in the policy  schedule. He agreed  the phone  call Mr H had with Devitt 
couldve gone better, but he didnt recommend any compensation.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So its been passed  
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ill address his two complaint points 
separately.
The admin fee for changing his address
I can see that Devitt wrote  to Mr H on 13 April 2018 when his policy was coming up to its 
renewal date. It also wrote to him on 25 April when  the policy  renewed.  Both of these letters  
enclosed a copy of the fees and charges applicable to his policy.  This clearly  explains any 
changes to the policy would incur a charge of £30. Devitt has shown us that it emailed these 
to Mr H. Ive also been  provided with a copy of a call Mr H made in response to receiving 
one of the renewal  documents  to query  the price and he quotes the reference number from 
the renewal letter. So it seems likely he did receive these. Based on all of this, Im satisfied 
he was made aware of the fees on his policy and, had he been unhappy with this, he 
couldve looked for another provider elsewhere.
Mr H has said he can no longer access these  documents through  the online portal. I dont 
know why this is the case as Devitt tells us they should be available for 13 months.  But as 
Ive explained,  Im satisfied he did receive  them and was made aware of the charges for 
making changes  to the policy.  If he wants a new copy, he should contact the business and 
ask for another to be sent by email.
Ref: DRN85585962Mr Hs says he thinks Devitt should  ensure  he is in receipt of these terms with signed 
acceptance. It isnt required to have a signed acceptance and, as Ive explained above,  I 
think its likely he received  these  documents.
I understand Mr H feels the amount of the admin  fee is too high given that it only took the 
call handler a few minutes to update  his records. But, as Devitt explained, the fee isnt 
directly related to how long it takes to the call handler to carry out the address change. And it 
isnt just this one member  of staffs time this fee covers. It covers other things such  as its 
software systems and maintenance  of policy documents. 
Overall, Im satisfied the fee was clearly  set out in the policy documents, and Devitt  is 
entitled to charge it.
Mr Hs telephone call with Devitt
Ive listened to this call. I believe the advisor remained professional throughout. He explained 
what fee was due to change  the address on Mr Hs Policy.  Mr H wanted to draw the call 
handler on how much this worked  out per hour.  The advisor didnt agree with the amount 
Mr H believed it was, but he explained  this in a polite manner. He went  on to explain what 
would happen  next, and again, whilst Mr H didnt  agree with him and was clearly  frustrated 
by this, the call handler remained polite and professional throughout. The call handler didnt 
refuse to put Mr H through to a manager but did explain a manger  would tell him the same 
thing. Overall I dont think Devitt has done anything wrong during this call.
my final decision
I know Mr H feels  very strongly about this, but my final decision is I dont uphold  his 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8558596