K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that British Gas Insurance Limited gave poor service under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr L had a HomeCare  insurance policy covering central heating,  plumbing  and drainage and 
home electrics. As Mrs L shared the home, I think its fair to say she also had the benefit of 
the policy.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include the 
associated plumbing  and drainage company, its engineers and others  for whose  actions I 
hold the insurance  company responsible.
Mr and Mrs L have an upstairs  bathroom. The bathroom includes a toilet and a basin with a 
mixer tap. Unfortunately they have had several  leaks damaging the celling of the kitchen 
below.
The toilet  waste leaked in 2016. Then a tap leaked  and had to be replaced. Then the 
replacement tap leaked and had to be replaced  again.
British Gas repaired the ceiling and offered to repaint it. British Gas made  an appointment to 
repaint the ceiling on 1 November 2018.
Mr and Mrs L said that  if the new ceiling paint  didnt match the walls  - British  Gas should 
also repaint the walls. Someone cancelled the appointment for repainting. At that point in 
mid-October Mr and Mrs L complained.
British Gas sent its final response on 30 October. After  more  correspondence, Mr and Mrs L 
brought their complaint  to us on about  30 November.
On about 7 December, British Gas replaced the tap again.
In February 2019  Mr and Mrs L engaged a private plumber to replace the tap again. His 
invoice was for £170.92.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
British Gas hadnt damaged the walls. She said British Gas cancelled  the appointment but 
did offer to reschedule this for another day, which she thought  was reasonable.
Later the investigator  asked British Gas whether it would reimburse the plumbers invoice for 
about £170.92. British Gas said that, whilst it hadnt  been given the opportunity to visit Mr 
and Mrs L again,  it agreed  to reimburse  their plumbers costs of £170.92.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs L and to British Gas on 12 July 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Ref: DRN87170392I found it likely that the British Gas taps hadnt  had a wide enough base to fit snugly 
into the hole in the basin.  I found  it likely that this allowed movement and leaks. But 
British Gas had been  entitled to fit its standard tap unless  and until Mr and Mrs L 
supplied a different  one. So I thought Mr and Mrs L had fallen short of showing that 
British Gas had suppled taps of a lesser quality  than it shouldve supplied.
Therefore I wasnt minded  to find that British  Gas caused damage to the kitchen  
ceiling. And I was minded to find it more than fair and reasonable that British Gas 
had offered to repaint the ceiling (but not the walls) and to reimburse the £170.92. 
British Gas had made those offers  and it remained open to Mr and Mrs L to accept 
them.
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs L or from British Gas, my provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt intended to direct British  
Gas Insurance  Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mrs L says she has nothing to add following the provisional decision.
British Gas agrees  with the provisional decision.
Therefore I see no reason  to change my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home emergency insurance usually covers urgent action to stop leaks. It doesnt usually 
cover putting  right damage caused  by leaks. Such damage is usually covered by home  
buildings insurance.
The British  Gas policy doesnt cover putting  right damage caused by leaks   unless British 
Gas has caused  the damage.  
The policy does cover putting right some  of the damage caused by making access  holes, for 
example in ceilings. But it only covers filling in holes and leaving  a level surface  not 
restoring the original surface and coverings. 
I dont think the policy  covers repainting  unless British Gas has caused the damage.
The policy provides that British Gas will supply its standard taps  or it will fit a tap supplied 
(and paid for) by the customer.
Mr and Mrs L had, I think, three  standard British Gas mixer taps and a series of leaks.  And I 
accept that a British  Gas engineer led them to believe that its taps werent the best quality.
After the final response letter, Mrs L said that the only access  hole had been for the toilet  
leak and that hole had been repaired before  the tap leaks.  British  Gas repaired the ceiling 
again in 2018.
Ref: DRN87170393In February 2019  Mr and Mrs L got a different sort of mixer tap. On 8 February she told us 
that the British  Gas tap hadnt been  fit for the hole it was filling.  And on 13 February her 
plumbers invoice was for the following:
for replacement of basin  tap, cut out and replace with a tap that has a wider base to 
cover the hole, re mastic  basin
So I find it likely that the British Gas taps hadnt  had a wide enough base to fit snugly into the 
hole in the basin. I find it likely that this allowed movement  and leaks.  But British Gas had 
been entitled to fit its standard  taps unless and until Mr and Mrs L supplied a different one. 
So I think Mr and Mrs L have fallen short of showing  that British Gas had suppled taps of a 
lesser quality than it shouldve supplied.
Therefore I dont find that British Gas caused damage to the kitchen  ceiling. And I find it 
more than fair and reasonable  that British Gas has offered  to repaint the ceiling  (but not the 
walls) and to reimburse the £170.92.  British Gas has made  those offers and it remains open  
to Mr and Mrs L to accept them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response  to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 September 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8717039