K821x#15Complaint
Mr Y complains Elevate  Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Background
Mr Y took 5 loans with Sunny between November 2015 and February  2016.  Ive included 
some of the information  weve  received  about  these loans in the table below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest  
Repayment
1 03/11/2015 29/04/2016 6 £400 £110.90
2 05/01/2016 28/01/2016 6 £50 £124.84
3 22/01/2016 29/04/2016 6 £100 £153.37
4 28/01/2016 19/02/2016 6 £50 £153.23
5 19/02/2016 29/04/2016 6 £150 £182.22
Our adjudicator thought that loan 5 shouldnt have  been given to Mr Y. Sunny disagreed with 
the adjudicator  and the complaint has now been  referred to me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny had to assess Mr Ys applications  for borrowing to check if he could afford to pay 
back the amounts  hed borrowed  without  undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which 
was proportionate to the circumstances.  Sunnys checks could have taken into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments 
and Mr Ys income and expenditure.  With this in mind, I think  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might have been  proportionate.
Ref: DRN81174092But certain factors might  suggest  Sunny should  have  done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr Y. These  factors include:
Mr Y having a low income  (reflecting  that it could be more  difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
The amounts  to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr Y having a large number of loans and/or having these loans  over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr Y coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive  of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr Y.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr Y could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether he technically  had enough  money to make  his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments  could of course  be an indicator that Mr Y was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically  follow that this is the case.  The FCAs 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  states payments are sustainable if they are made 
without undue difficulties  and in particular, made on time, while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to make them. If a lender realises, or ought 
reasonably to have  realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude  those  repayments  are 
unsustainable.
Ive considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ys complaint.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny should have  realised by the time he applied  for loan 5, that 
Mr Y would have struggled to repay  loan 5 in a sustainable way. This is because  the 
adjudicator felt proportionate checks would have shown Mr Y had an outstanding short-term 
loan with another lender  as well as two other  outstanding loans with Sunny. 
Although Sunny acknowledged it was aware that Mr Y had a short-term loan with another  
lender, it told us it would  have required  four or more outstanding short-term loans (including  
any active Sunny loans) before it would have  declined loan 5. So, with three outstanding 
loans when Mr Y applied for loan 5, Sunny didnt think in isolation this was a reason  to 
decline his application.    
Having considered Mr Ys borrowing history  with Sunny, along with the information it 
gathered from the credit  checks it carried out on him, I agree with our adjudicator.  Setting  the 
scene for Mr Ys borrowing was an initial credit  check from Sunny which appears to have 
focused more  on his use of short-term loans  elsewhere. Sunnys check  revealed  Mr Y had 
borrowed just over £1,000 in this way over the past six months, and had repaid £456 in the 
last month. Mr Ys first loan from Sunny was for £400, a not dissimilar amount to the 
borrowing he had recently repaid. Its possible  the first loan from Sunny was just a case of 
Ref: DRN81174093Mr Y refinancing his existing short-term loan debt due to an inability to repay it in a 
sustainable way. This early in its lending relationship with him Id not necessarily have 
expected Sunny to have suspected this, especially as its credit  check found Mr Y didnt have 
any other loans outstanding  at that point.  However, I think  its helpful  to put the situation in 
context.
Mr Y didnt borrow further from Sunny for a couple of months after taking loan 1. But he then 
borrowed loans 2 to 5 within a very short space of time (about six weeks).  And when loans 3 
to 5 were taken out, he always  had three  Sunny loans active  at the same time. Mr Y also 
repaid loans 2 and 4 on the same  day as taking out loans  4 and 5 respectively, for the same  
or larger amounts.  I think theres a possibility that repayment of loans 2 and 4 had left Mr Y 
unable to meet his other financial commitments, requiring further borrowing. 
Over the period of lending  the highest repayment that Mr Y had to pay also broadly 
increased. So whilst loans  2 to 5, ranging between £50 and £150,  were for lower amounts  
than loan 1 (£400), the overlapping loan pattern resulted in a broad increase in indebtedness 
with Mr Ys highest monthly repayment  increasing  from around £111 initially  to around £182  
by loan 5.      
Having reviewed all the information we have  about  Mr Ys other short-term borrowing 
commitments at the time of loan 5, I also think he had more loans elsewhere at this time 
than our adjudicator  identified. I have identified at least  two outstanding loans, one of which 
appears to have been in arrears, at the time Mr Y applied for loan 5. So Mr Y had at least 
four loans outstanding, either  with Sunny  or elsewhere, at that point. 
Considering this and the overall  pattern of borrowing, I agree with our adjudicator  that by the 
latest loan 5, it is likely that Mr Y was having  overarching problems managing  his financial 
situation, including repaying his debts  in a sustainable way, and this is something  Sunny 
should have identified. I also note that Mr Ys application for loan 5 should have declined 
based on the lending criteria Sunny has described.  
In light of the above, I dont think Sunny should have agreed loan 5 for Mr Y.   
Ref: DRN81174094Putting things  right
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr Y loan 5, so its not right that he should have had to pay 
interest, fees or charges  on the loan, or have it affect his credit file in a negative  way. So to 
put things right Sunny must:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr Y towards interest,  fees and 
charges on loan 5.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr Y which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr Y originally  made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Pay Mr Y the total of A plus B.
D) Remove any adverse  information  it has recorded on Mr Ys credit  file in relation to loan 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr Y a certificate  showing  how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ys complaint  in part and direct Elevate Credit International Limited (trading  as 
Sunny) to take the actions outlined in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8117409