K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Ms S complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander), mis-sold them a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr K and Ms S were sold a MPPI policy in 2008 during a meeting. 
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  the policy only covered Mr K. It would have 
provided a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr K was off work sick or lost his 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr K and Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. Mr K and Ms S 
didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr K and Ms Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr K and Ms Ss complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr K was eligible under  the policy.  Based on, amongst 
other things,  Mr Ks age, residence and employment  at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he 
was eligible.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr K that the MPPI  was optional and needed his consent  
before it could be applied to their account.  Mr K says he felt that he had to take MPPI.
Of course I cant  be sure of what happened during  the sale and so Ive thought carefully 
about what Mr K and Santander have told us and looked at the documents from the time of 
the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened.
Santander have  told us that MPPI wasnt a compulsory product. And Ive seen a copy  of the 
application summary. This shows that Mr K would have been presented with equally clear  
options to take or refuse MPPI cover. This document shows  that Mr K chose to take MPPI. 
Ive also seen a copy of the key facts illustration.  This also makes it clear  that Mr K didnt 
have to take any insurance  with Santander. The only compulsory insurance was buildings  
insurance which could  have been taken  out from another provider. This document sets out 
MPPI under the heading of optional  insurance.
So while I appreciate what Mr K  has told us, I havent seen sufficient evidence  to be able to 
conclude that its more likely that Mr K wasnt made  aware that the MPPI was optional  or that 
he didnt choose  to take it out. 
Santander accept  they advised  Mr K to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for him. I dont know if Santander took all the steps they should have to check  if the 
Ref: DRN80032782MPPI was suitable for Mr K but I do think the policy was suitable for them.  I say this 
because:
-Although Mr K has told us he would  have been  entitled to sick pay, the policy would 
have paid out in addition  to this. In his response to the adjudicators assessment,    
Mr K has told us he wold have been  entitled  to three months  sick pay from his 
employer. The policy would have paid out for a much longer period of time and it 
would also have  paid out in addition  to the redundancy pay Mr K has told us about.
-It doesnt appear that Mr K was affected  by the main exclusions and restrictions  in 
the policy which would have  made  it difficult for him to make a successful claim under 
the policy. I appreciate Mr K says he was unaware of the waiting period (one month). 
However, the waiting  period was not of a length  of time which we would consider to 
be onerous. And in any event given that Mr K was entitled to three months  sick pay, it 
doesnt appear to me that this would have made the policy  unsuitable for him.
-I appreciate Mr K has said he wasnt made aware of what the total cost of the policy  
was over the life of the cover. However, this was a policy which  was paid for on a 
monthly basis and Mr K could have  cancelled it at any time without losing out 
financially. Ive seen  the monthly costs set out in the key facts  illustration and also 
in the schedule of insurance that was sent out to Mr K. However, even  if Mr K wasnt  
made aware of the monthly cost at the point at which  he chose to take PPI out, I 
havent seen any evidence which would suggest the policy  was unaffordable  for Mr K 
at the time of the sale.
-Mr K has raised the point that Ms S was also working full time at the time of the sale 
but that she wasnt covered under the policy. However, the cost of the policy  would 
have been the same whether Mr K alone  was covered or whether both Mr K and    
Ms S were covered under the policy  as the benefit would then also have been  split 
between them. So the only way Mr and Ms S would have  lost out is if Ms S needed  to 
make a claim under the policy but was unable to. I havent seen any evidence that 
this was the case. And I note that Mr K was the higher income  earner So all in all, I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude  that the fact the PPI wasnt  split 
between Mr K and Ms S meant  that the policy  was unsuitable for them.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr K, Santander also had to give him 
clear information about the MPPI   in particular about the costs,  benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make  an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr K wasnt as clear  as it should have been  but 
this in itself doesnt mean  the policy was mis-sold  as I have to go on and consider whether  
better information would  have  put him off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this for the same reasons  I think the MPPI was suitable for him.
So it follows  that I dont  think Santander mis-sold Mr K and Ms S this MPPI policy. I 
appreciate Mr K and Ms S will be disappointed by this outcome, however, it is of course up 
to them  whether or not they accept or reject my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr K and Ms Ss complaint against  Santander UK Plc.
Ref: DRN80032783Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8003278