K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold  her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as well as a critical illness and life insurance policy  in 2001 when 
she took out her mortgage. All three elements were combined into a plan called a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). 
background
In March 2019 I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained  why I was intending to find 
that Halifax should have sold a decreasing term critical illness  policy rather  than the level 
term policy it sold Ms P. And to uphold in full the life cover policy  which I said was not 
suitable for Ms P.
I also explained why I was not intending  to uphold Ms Ps complaint about  the PPI element 
of the TMPP. 
And I set out how Halifax should put things  right.  I said that it should  refund all the premiums 
Ms P had paid for the life cover plus compensatory interest and separately Halifax  should 
work out and repay the difference  between what Ms P paid for a level term critical illness  
policy and what she would have  paid for a decreasing term critical illness policy.
My provisional decision is attached and forms part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
Ms P hasnt given me any further information  to consider. Halifax has come back  to me to 
confirm it accepted my decision but queried the method of redress I proposed in my 
provisional decision. It said that the process which it had adhered  to was to award any 
difference in premium between what the consumer  paid for the level term assurance life and 
critical illness policy combined  and what the consumer would have paid for a decreasing  
term assurance critical illness  policy  only.
Halifax has not explained why, or if, its preferred method would result in a different figure to 
the method I proposed in my provisional decision.
In my view the TMPP was made up of three different  elements which,  when added  together  
produced a single monthly premium for the TMPP. So it seems  fair to me to continue to treat 
the three elements as separate when  calculating the redress  due.
So I see no reason  to depart from the findings Ive set out in my provisional decision as Ms P 
should get all the life cover she paid and the difference between what  she paid for a level 
term policy for the critical illness cover and what she should have paid for a decreasing  term 
critical illness policy.
Ref: DRN83034832putting things right in relation to the critical  illness policy
Halifax must pay to Ms P the different in cost between  what  she paid for her LTA policy (for  
CIC cover) and what she would have paid for an equivalent DTA policy set over the same  
term. I think this would put her in the position, so far as is possible, that shed be in now if 
shed been appropriately advised.
To work out how much  compensation is payable, Halifax should work out the premium Ms P 
would have needed to pay for a decreasing policy with cover of £106,800  over a 25 year 
term. This should be based on her age and health in 2001  and the premium  rates  applicable 
at the time. I currently think  it should  then pay compensation of A + B, where:
A = the cost of each overpayment,  calculated as the difference  between  the premium 
Ms P paid and the premium for a decreasing policy providing  cover of £106,800, 
while the policy was in force; and
B = simple interest  at 8% per year on each overpayment from the date it was paid to 
the date compensation is paid. Income tax may be payable  on the interest.
putting things right in relation to the life cover
Halifax should put Ms P in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the level term 
life policy  sold to her. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and 
Halifax should:
Pay Ms P the amount  she paid each  month  for the policy.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year simple.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must give 
Ms P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint about the PPI part of 
the policy. But Bank of Scotland  plc should put things  right in relation to the critical illness 
cover and the life cover  as Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN83034833COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms P complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) as well as a critical  illness  and life insurance policy  in 2001 when she took out her 
mortgage.
 
background
Ms P took out a mortgage in 2001.  At the same  time she bought  a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan 
(TMPP). This is a packaged  protection plan and it consisted of three parts - PPI, critical illness cover 
and life cover.  Each part could be taken separately or declined.
The PPI policy would have cost £27.81  for the accident and sickness cover and £18.54 for the 
unemployment part of the cover. It would have provided  a monthly benefit  of £776.53 if Ms P couldnt 
work or lost her job.
She also bought life cover  for £8.02 and critical  illness  cover which would  have cost £16.21.  They 
would have paid a lump  sum if Ms P was diagnosed  with a critical illness or died.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the PPI part of the policy  but he said that as Ms P was paying  for the life 
cover and the critical illness cover on a level term assurance basis this wasnt right for Ms P. She 
should have been paying  for her critical  illness  and life cover on a decreasing term as her mortgage 
was on a repayment basis.
After referral to this service,  Halifax agreed to reimburse Ms P the difference  between  what  she paid 
for the critical  illness and life cover and what she would  have paid if shed  taken  it out on a decreasing 
term. Ms P disagreed  with this view.  She said the whole policy had been mis-sold and she asked that 
her complaint be passed  to an ombudsman for a final decision.  So the complaint  has been passed to 
me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
Having done that, Im not intending to uphold the PPI part of the policy. And I intend to agree  with the 
adjudicator that the decreasing term assurance policy for the critical illness  cover would  have been 
more suitable for Ms P. But I intend to make a different  decision about  the life cover Ms P took out 
and to uphold her complaint  about it. I will explain why below.
For ease  I will deal with each part of the policy  separately:
Each part of the policy was taken out in a branch and I think Halifax  advised Ms P to take all the 
elements of the cover. That meant that it had to make sure it was suitable  for Ms Ps circumstances. It 
also had to give Ms P enough clear information so she could decide  for herself  whether  or not she 
wanted the cover.
the PPI policy 
Halifax has been able to provide some of the paperwork from the time of the sale. This policy was 
taken out in branch and I can see on the application  form for the mortgage that Ms P filled in the part 
of the form to show she wanted to take advantage of the TMPP policy. She has signed  and dated this 
section. And while it shows that Halifax required  building insurance to be taken out (not necessarily 
Ref: DRN83034834with Halifax) theres nothing on the form that would have led her to think  she had to take PPI out as 
part of the mortgage. Ms P could have left this section blank if she didnt want  the cover. Ms P has 
made other choices about different types of cover on the form. Overall, I think Ms P chose to take out 
PPI knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
Ms P says it wasnt suitable for her. She has told us she had other resources  she could have used 
including sick pay from work, savings  in an ISA and some inheritance money and a death in service  
benefit. Shes also told us about a room  in her flat she could have rented out and about enhanced 
redundancy pay she would have received.  Ive thought about everything shes told me.
This policy would have  paid out for 24 months if she lost her job or was off work through  accident or 
sickness. So it would have paid out as well as and for longer than any sick pay she received from 
work. And whilst she might  have had savings in an ISA, this could have been earmarked for other 
purposes and isnt always  so easily  accessible. I understand  the inheritance  she has told us about  
was not in her name. But even if it was it was, this also might have been wanted for other purposes.
The PPI was designed to pay out if things went wrong. It would have paid a monthly benefit if she was 
off work  or lost her job  different to a lump sum she may have received on death  from any death in 
service benefit. I note Ms P told us that she had lots of expenses which arose  when  she moved  
house. She says this demonstrates that the PPI was unaffordable but I think the insurance was taken  
to protect an unexpected  event.  If Ms P lost her job or couldnt work her income would  have been lost 
and as she was solely responsible for the mortgage the consequences of being  unable  to repay  it 
were serious. The PPI would have paid out in addition  to her savings and redundancy pay, allowing 
her to use these for other important living expenses if things went  wrong.  And renting a room isnt 
always so easy and she might not have  been  able to rent a room as and when she needed it.
Ms P told us she was in good health when she took out this PPI policy. So I dont  think  shed have 
been affected  by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I can see she was 
working and didnt have any unusual employment circumstances which  might have stopped her from 
making a successful claim if shed needed to. I also think the PPI was affordable for her.
Overall I think  the PPI was suitable  for her circumstances.  Even so, Halifax had to make sure it gave 
Ms P enough information about  the cover so she could decide for herself  whether it was right for her. 
Its possible the information about the policy wasnt as clear  as it could have been. But for the same 
reasons as Ive found it was suitable for her and I think she had a need for the policy so I dont think 
better or clearer information  would have put her off buying  the PPI.
In summary I dont think Ms P lost out and I dont intend to uphold  this complaint about the mis-sale of 
the PPI.
critical illness cover.
I intend  to find that Halifax should have sold Ms P a decreasing term assurance policy rather  than the 
level term assurance it sold her.
Ms P says the critical  illness  cover wasnt right for her. But Ive thought  about her circumstances. 
Even if she had a critical illness policy  from work  this policy was taken out with the mortgage over a 
long term  25 years.  So at the time she took it out she probably  didnt expect she would  be in her job 
for that length of time.  And I cant say the work policy covered the same circumstances as the one 
she took out with her mortgage. As she was taking out her mortgage I still think it could have been 
useful.
But Ms P took out a level term assurance (LTA). I dont think  this was quite right for her as her 
mortgage was being paid for on a repayment basis. This meant  that the cover remained the same 
even though the mortgage was decreasing  as Ms P paid off the outstanding capital. A decreasing  
term would have  been  more  suitable as the initial  sum assured would have reduced over time. And 
Ref: DRN83034835the level term assurance  Ms P was paying for was more  expensive than the alternative decreasing 
term assurance (DTA)  policy.
Halifax has said it will pay back  the difference  between  the comparative decreasing term assurance 
policy and the level term assurance policy that Ms P was paying  for and it will add 8% simple interest 
per annum from the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement.  As part of this settlement  
is compensatory interest Halifax  will deduct tax at the basic rate in accordance with HMRC rules.
putting things  right in relation to the critical illness  policy
Halifax must pay to Ms P the different in cost between what she paid for her LTA policy (for  CIC 
cover) and what  she would  have paid for an equivalent DTA policy set over the same term.  I think  this 
would put her in the position, so far as is possible, that shed be in now if shed  been appropriately 
advised.
To work out how much  compensation is payable, Halifax  should work out the premium Ms P would 
have needed to pay for a decreasing policy  with cover of £106,800 over a 25 year term. This should 
be based on her age and health in 2001 and the premium rates  applicable at the time.  I currently think  
it should  then pay compensation of A + B, where:
A = the cost of each overpayment, calculated as the difference between the premium  Ms P 
paid and the premium for a decreasing policy providing cover of £106,800 , while  the policy  
was in force; and
B = simple  interest at 8% per year on each overpayment from the date it was paid to the date 
compensation is paid. Income tax may be payable  on the interest.
Life cover
Im intending  to uphold this part of the complaint.  Ill explain why.
As Ive explained above Halifax advised Ms P to take out the life cover. I dont think  it was suitable for 
her. I say this as Ms P was single at the time she took out the life cover and she had no dependants. 
So I dont think Ms P had any real need for life cover  when she took it out. As Halifax  recommended 
the policy  it should have  made sure it was a good fit for her needs and I dont think  she would have 
taken it out if shed realised  it was unsuitable for her.
putting things  right in relation to the life cover
Halifax should  put Ms P in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out the level term life policy 
sold to her. The policy  should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Halifax  should:
Pay Ms P the amount  she paid each month for the policy.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year simple.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax  must  give Ms P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN83034836my provisional  decision
For the reasons  stated  above, but subject to both parties  responses to this provisional decision,  I 
dont intend to uphold Ms Ps complaint about  the PPI part of the policy.
I intend  to ask Bank of Scotland plc to put things right in relation to the critical illness  cover and the life 
cover as Ive set out above.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8303483