K820x#14Complaint
Ms H complains National Westminster Bank  Plc unfairly refused to allow her regular 
payments to switch over to an account  she opened  with a different bank under the current  
account switch  guarantee.  She says this caused  direct debit payments not to be paid, the 
result of which led to the cancellation of important insurances. She says their actions also 
risked her incurring considerable vets fees.  She wants them  to pay her the insurance  benefit 
for the life insurance policy she can longer benefit  from,  and compensation.
Background
Ms H was a customer of NatWest and held several  accounts with them.  In February 2019 
NatWest decided to close her accounts and gave her 60 days notice to find alternative 
banking arrangements. Ms H didnt  think this was fair; a matter I address in a final decision 
on another complaint.
Prior to her accounts  closing Ms H opened  another account with a different bank and asked 
that bank to get her payments switched over under the current  account switch guarantee. 
NatWest refused to let the payments switch over in late March 2019, meaning Ms H needed 
to arrange for her payments  to be individually set up on her new account. She says this led 
to some payments  not being made, and her life insurance cancelling as a result.
Ms H has a serious medical condition for which she is receiving medical  treatment, and 
which impacts  her ability to perform everyday tasks. She complained  to NatWest about their 
refusal to transfer  her payments  under  the guarantee, as shed have difficulty setting up 
payments individually. As a result, she says she lost valuable  health insurance for which she 
can no longer get cover,  as her condition would now be excluded  - and this is a significant  
loss considering her situation.
NatWest rejected Ms Hs complaint. They say they were able to refuse  the current account 
switch guarantee  under  the terms of her account. Unhappy  with this response Ms H brought  
her complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Ms Hs complaint  and decided  not to uphold it. In summary  they 
found the terms of Ms Hs account  allow NatWest to refuse an account switch  if theyve  
reasonable grounds to do so. They are not obliged to give the reasons for refusing a switch. 
But considering the basis for their refusal,  they hadnt incorrectly  applied  their terms. They  
also found we wouldnt ask NatWest to pay for losses which never materialised.
Ms H was unhappy with this outcome  and has asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to uphold  
Ms Hs complaint for broadly the same  reasons  as previously  set out by the investigator.
I must make clear  that my considerations for this decision are limited  to whether NatWest 
were able to refuse the current account switch.  Ive not considered how appropriate it was 
for them to close her accounts, as I address this matter in a separate  decision on another 
complaint.
Ref: DRN88960612NatWest can refuse to comply with another banks request to transfer a current  account 
switch if theyve reasonable grounds  to do so. I understand  Ms H thinks  they dont have  any 
valid reasons for refusing  the switch, as she says shed been a reliable customer  of theirs  
whos always kept her accounts  in order. And I can understand why she wants  to know what 
their reasons  are. But as our investigator  said, NatWest are not obliged  to reveal those 
reasons.
Based on what Ms H has told us about  her health, I understand that individually setting up 
payments on her new account  may have been very difficult for her - and its possible this 
meant some payments werent made on time and some payment  arrangements  may have 
cancelled. Indeed, NatWest should  consider  the individual needs and circumstances of their 
customers when taking  decisions  which affect  them. 
But Ive carefully  balanced  what Ms H has told us against NatWests  basis for their refusal,  
and on balance Im satisfied they had legitimate grounds to take the action they did, and they 
applied their terms correctly. So, I wont be asking NatWest to compensate her for the 
trouble she may have  had creating new payment arrangements  or for any losses she may 
have encountered as a result, such as the cancellation of her insurances.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8896061