K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc would  not refund  a debit card payment he made  
from his business  account which did not remain with the intended beneficiary.
background
Mr R made  a debit card payment to an insurance company on 21 June 2017 for £752.33.  He 
did not recognise the related entry on his statement  and made  a chargeback  request. The 
payment was refunded and then re-debited  when he later confirmed it as genuine. But he 
heard from the beneficiary in October 2017  that the payment had been charged back  again. 
He made  the payment for a second  time  this time by bank transfer. He did not receive a 
permanent refund of the debit card payment and asked Barclays  to get it back  for him in 
November 2017.  It said that it was then more than 120 days  from the date of the original 
payment. So it could not help him under the rules of the relevant chargeback  scheme.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the 
chargeback scheme  was a voluntary one. And that it is governed by strict rules  including the 
timescale within which a dispute can be raised. We couldnt tell Barclays  to attempt a 
chargeback outside  the timescale  of 120 days from the date the payment was authorised.
Mr R did not agree. He said that he wanted  written  confirmation that the money had been 
sent to the correct beneficiary. He does  not agree that he is bound by the terms and 
conditions of the relevant chargeback scheme.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 December  2018  and said that I was 
intending to uphold it. I detail what I said in that decision  below.
I set out first the relevant  dates involved here:
-21 June 2017  - debit  card payment  authorised by Mr R (shown on bank  statement  
the next day) 
-24 July 2017  - following a chargeback request the payment is credited back to Mr R
-25 August 2017 - Mr R had confirmed payment as genuine and it was re-debited. 
-5 September  2017 - beneficiary receives funds  back.
-13 October 2017- beneficiary receives letter  from its collecting agent saying funds will 
be debited again.
-25 October 2017- beneficiarys account debited  by collecting agent.
-30 October 2017- Mr R pays beneficiary  by bank transfer 
-November 2017- Mr R contacts Barclays as he has not had a refund (this was more 
than 120 days after the original debit card payment).
I contacted Barclays  to see if it was prepared to resolve this case  informally and refund the 
money. I noted that it was clear from the evidence that the beneficiary had not retained the 
debit card payment.  I took the initial  view that the dispute was raised  in time  certainly from 
the collecting agents point of view as it had been charged back  from the beneficiary.  And 
that it could be argued  that Mr R only intended to authorise one payment   he only made the 
payment by bank  transfer in the knowledge that the first had not been made. And he had to 
make this quickly to make  sure that insurance cover was retained.
Ref: DRN80914962Barclays did not agree and said that Mr R raised  this outside of the chargeback timescales  
which were not something it set. And that he did authorise the payment to be made  when he 
contacted Barclays  about this in August 2017.  It said it was unfair that it was asked to 
retrieve the funds  from the merchant when  it is unable to do so.
an error with the chargeback
The chargeback request  originated from Barclays. In August 2017 it re-debited the payment 
to Mr R. I had not seen any related information  it sent about this. But on 13 October 2017 the 
collecting agent wrote  to the beneficiary stating that Mr R had denied  authorising the 
payment. At that time that statement was incorrect. And that chargeback has never been 
fully completed so an error has been  made. I did not have evidence  to determine how that 
error came about. But it has resulted in a loss for Mr R.
my assessment
I appreciated that the chargeback scheme  is a voluntary one. And that there are strict  time 
limits. I didnt  necessarily think it became apparent to Barclays  what  had happened with the 
original payment in November 2017.  However I didnt think that the current  position is fair to 
Mr R for the following reasons:
-Barclays reasonably  attempted  and started the chargeback  process for this payment 
under the scheme  rules as wed generally expect it to. That process  has not been 
completed.
-It is clear that Mr R has made  this payment  twice  and the beneficiary  has been able 
only to retain the bank  transfer. Mr Rs first debit card payment has not been applied  
in line with any authorisation he gave.
-It was not necessarily a question  here of Mr R making a new chargeback request. 
The payment  was already charged  back from the retailer  a second  time. The issue is 
that there was an error with that chargeback. Mr R did not request it and the payment 
was debited from the beneficiary and not returned  to Mr R.
-Mr R has no relationship with the collecting agent here:  Barclays and the beneficiary 
do. He has asked the beneficiary about  this and it has said it cannot assist.
On one view I saw this complaint  as one about  an existing chargeback. I didnt therefore see 
this as necessarily out of time. On another I saw this as one about a payment that has not 
been made in line with Mr Rs instructions. It is a misdirected one and I would reasonably  
have expected Barclays to make  attempts to trace it and help get it back  on his behalf.  It 
seems clear  that the money is being held with the collecting agent and the chargeback has 
not been completed. I could not see any fair and reasonable basis  under which  Mr R should 
not receive a refund.
resolution
I would have expected Barclays to attempt  to get Mr Rs money back  when he first raised the 
issue in November 2017. There is no question that an error has been  made.  So I thought 
that this would most likely  have been  successful although could have taken some time. Even 
if there were  issues Mr R would have been able to respond to them at the time. 
Given the time that has now elapsed I thought it reasonable that Barclays re-credit  the 
money to him straightaway.  I would expect Mr R to sign the indemnity it will require  as a 
Ref: DRN80914963result. I didnt think that this should  necessarily  result  in Barclays  making a loss  as it has all 
the details about the error made with this payment. However, if for some  reason it is not able 
to recover it I still thought that this is now fairly  Barclays responsibility not Mr Rs for the 
reasons Ive given.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it would accept my provisional decision. Mr R did not raise any new points. As 
a result I see no reason  to depart from my provisional view on this case
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank  UK Plc to pay Mr R 
£752.33 subject  to him signing  any reasonable form of standard indemnity it requires. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8091496