K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC acted  unfairly and unreasonably when dealing  with 
his mortgage application. He wants compensation and an apology.
background 
Mr W applied  to Lloyds for a mortgage.  A valuation was undertaken and Mr W paid a product 
fee. He said that he was told by Lloyds that the property was subject to ground rent, which  
was incorrect (and caused him to spend  time confirming that).  Mr W was also unhappy that 
his adviser went on holiday without handing his case over to a colleague and he wasnt  
given updates. He felt that hed been given conflicting information,  as well as incorrect 
information, and his application  had been  delayed. Mr W withdrew his application and 
complained. He was called  by a business  related to Lloyds.  He felt that his complaint  hadnt 
been listened to by Lloyds.
Lloyds agreed  that it had given poor service  but said that the ground  rent issue  had been 
resolved so Mr W could continue with the application if he wished. It also offered him £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset  it had caused Mr W, £49 for the cost of his calls to it 
and refunded the product  fee hed paid.
Mr W complained  to us, and complained further about the handling of his complaint by 
Lloyds. The adjudicators view was that Lloyds  was at fault. He noted that the application 
wasnt progressed due to the advisers  absence on holiday and Mr W was asked to provide 
documents that werent required. The adjudicator  agreed that no ground rent was due and 
thought Mr W had been forced to spend  time and effort on confirming this. It was explained 
to Mr W that the related  business who had contacted  him about his complaint was part of the 
same group as Lloyds,  but if this was a data protection issue, this service didnt deal with 
such complaints. 
The adjudicator said that Lloyds had promised to call Mr W and failed to do so, but noted 
Mr W hadnt wanted to speak to the complaints handler, which was why the business  hadnt 
fully appreciated  his complaint; Mr Ws refusal to accept compensation was why Lloyds 
cancelled its compensation payment. The adjudicator felt that total compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr W should be £400, which  Lloyds accepted.
Mr W disagreed.  He felt that he should receive more  compensation for his trouble and upset.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the core of this 
complaint, which  is about the handling  of Mr Ws mortgage application. Complaints handling 
isnt an activity regulated  by this service, though I can consider whether Lloyds has acted 
fairly and reasonably generally. And alleged data breaches are a matter for the Information 
Commissioners Office,  though it is correct that Lloyds and the related business are all part 
of the same  banking group.
Ref: DRN83244332My role isnt to punish businesses for making  mistakes; my role is to put consumers back 
into the position that they shouldve been  in all along  as much as thats  possible.  In Mr Ws 
case, theres no dispute that Lloyds didnt  act fair or reasonably when dealing with his 
mortgage application. The adjudicator set out the mistakes made accurately in my view,  
having reviewed  all the evidence available to me. Given Mr W chose to withdraw his 
application, and Lloyds offered to pay £49 to cover  the costs of his calls to progress matters  
and refunded the product  fee, I dont think its fair or reasonable for me to award anything  for 
financial loss. 
This leaves  the issue of compensation  for trouble and upset; Mr W feels he should receive 
more that the adjudicator has recommended. Money  never truly compensates  for trouble 
and upset suffered,  and Im required to bear in mind this services guidelines. Compensation 
isnt awarded on the basis  of the potential seriousness of any consequences of a business 
making a mistake;  its awarded on the basis of the trouble and upset a consumer suffered.
In Mr Ws case,  I accept  that he suffered stress and was put to inconvenience in contacting  
third parties about the ground  rent issue, as well as chasing Lloyds to get updates and 
progress matters. I also accept that the delay caused by Lloyds inability  to progress the 
application is likely to have caused  Mr W upset. But I think £400 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr W by Lloyds errors is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Mr W didnt lose the property  but simply chose to go to another lender.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr W £400 
for his trouble  and upset, and its open  to Mr W to accept its offer to pay him £49 for the cost 
of his telephone calls.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Mr W to accept  or reject my decision before  13 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8324433