K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 2000 to go 
with a store card. Miss W says AXA France IARD  (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA has taken on that responsibility. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Ws 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Miss W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because on the application  form it was necessary for her to sign the 
relevant section on the application form to show she wanted  to take out PPI. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss W enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide  for herself if it was right for her.
Ref: DRN88062162Its possible the information AXA gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Miss W. Although  Miss W  
told us about an operation  shed had some time before the policy was taken out. Based 
on that, I dont think better information  about the existing medical condition  exclusion 
wouldve caused her to change her mind about  taking out the policy. I say this because 
this was a one-off  operation that was fairly commonplace and which was unlikely to lead 
to any long term problems  that might  have required Miss W to take time off work. The 
policy also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her 
if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss W would have declined  the 
cover had AXA done anything more.
While  the policy contained exclusions  on claims  relating to back and mental  health  
conditions, in light of Miss Ws circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she 
would have still thought she had some  good  reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss W would have still taken out PPI. The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Miss Ws representative has raised  a number  of what  I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Miss Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Miss Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ws particular case.  But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Miss Ws complaint   so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8806216