K822xcomplaint
Mr D complained about the service he received from Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Halifax, when his mortgage came to an end.
He said that:
-hed acted on the banks advice by cancelling his direct debit when he was going to 
pay off his mortgage  but he then received threatening letters about non-payment; 
-when he rang Halifax  about his previous call, the bank couldnt  trace  it. So Mr D had 
to look back in his own records  and provide details about the time and date of the 
call.
Mr D wants more compensation than the £150  offered  by Halifax.
background 
Mr D had an interest only mortgage with Halifax. It was due to end at the start of May 2019, 
and he planned  to pay it off by taking  out an equity release mortgage elsewhere. In April 
2019, he rang Halifax because the new equity release mortgage wouldnt be in place at the 
time his Halifax mortgage was due to end. So interest would accrue at the standard  variable 
rate until he paid off the mortgage.
Mr D told the Halifax  adviser that he didnt want  to make a May payment at the higher rate. 
The adviser said Mr D could cancel  his direct debit so he didnt make a May payment.  But 
the adviser didnt  advise  Mr D that this would mean the account  would  go into arrears,  so 
Mr D would receive arrears letters. And the adviser  also didnt make a record of what had 
been said. 
Mr D received arrears letters dated 3 May and 14 May. He complained. But because the 
adviser hadnt made a note of Mr Ds call, Halifax didnt have any record of what had been  
said. Mr D had to go back to his own notes to tell Halifax the time and date of the call, so 
Halifax could listen to the call recording.
Halifax upheld Mr Ds complaint. It agreed that its adviser should  have  told Mr D that his 
account would show arrears until Mr D paid off the mortgage in full. It explained that the 
adviser should have put a temporary  hold on the account to prevent  collection phone calls 
and arrears letters. Halifax  said it had now put a temporary hold on Mr Ds mortgage account  
until 27 May. This meant  Mr D wouldnt  get any collection calls, but he might still get arrears 
letters because of the banks regulatory requirement  to notify customers  in arrears.  Halifax 
recognised that Mr D had spent almost half an hour on the phone when he rang to complain, 
and offered him £150 compensation.
Mr D refused the offer, saying it wasnt enough. He said he wanted £250. Halifax refused to 
offer that, so Mr D complained to this service. When he did so, Mr D said that he now 
wanted more than £250, because that didnt reflect his distress and inconvenience.
Mr D paid off his mortgage on 21 May.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ds request for more compensation. She noted that Mr Ds 
credit file wouldnt be affected, because hed paid off his mortgage  during May. She said 
Ref: DRN83959222shed weighed up what had happened,  including  Halifaxs  response and the calls Mr D had 
to make.  But he hadnt suffered any financial loss, and the investigator explained that we 
dont usually award compensation for time spent  dealing with a complaint. She felt that 
Halifaxs offer of £150 was sufficient to reflect Mr Ds distress and inconvenience.
Mr D wasnt satisfied. He said that Halifax had been  negligent, hadnt followed protocol  and 
didnt undertake due diligence. He said that it was a serious matter and the sum offered was 
derisory, didnt compensate him, and was hardly any deterrent for Halifax behaving  in a 
shoddy manner.  Mr D also said that this took place when he was trying  to raise funds to pay 
off his Halifax mortgage. And if his funds hadnt  been available  by the end of May, his credit  
rating would have been adversely affected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Halifaxs adviser didnt warn  Mr D that hed be getting arrears  letters  if he 
cancelled his direct  debit and didnt make  a May payment. And its clear  that the adviser also 
failed to note down the conversation.  This meant Mr D had to spend time looking up his own 
records, and spent  time on the phone to Halifax.
So I consider its fair and reasonable  for Halifax to pay Mr D some compensation, and the 
issue is how much  would be fair and reasonable. 
First, Mr D had no financial  loss as a result  of what happened.  And no marker was put onto 
his credit file, because he paid off the mortgage during May.  So the compensation relates  to 
the inconvenience of having  to look up his own records, and the upset of receiving arrears  
communications which he hadnt  expected.  
I note that Mr D said that there would have been a credit marker if he hadnt paid off his 
mortgage during  May. But this didnt happen, and Mr D did pay off his mortgage.  Lenders 
are obliged to send accurate reports to the credit reference agencies,  and the fact remains 
that Mr Ds mortgage  was indeed in arrears  after he stopped paying. I recognise that Halifax  
had told Mr D that it was ok not to make a payment during  May while  he was still sorting out 
his equity release.  But that doesnt change the fact that interest was still accruing and Mr D 
still owed the money.  If Mr Ds replacement mortgage had taken  him longer to organise and 
it he was worried about arrears being  reported  on his credit  file, he could have  made a 
monthly payment  to Halifax.
Mr D has also argued that £150 compensation wouldnt be a deterrent for Halifax.  But the 
role of this service isnt to punish banks. We consider  the impact on the consumer. And we 
dont consider compensation should be paid in every case  there needs to be more than a 
minor inconvenience.
I recognise that it was inconvenient for Mr D to have to spend time looking up his own 
records and speaking to Halifax  on the phone, and upsetting to receive arrears  
communications he wasnt expecting. But I dont agree with Mr D that this was serious 
negligence and a breach  of due diligence. I consider Halifaxs offer of £150  compensation 
was fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN83959223my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr D to decide whether or not to ask Halifax  whether the £150 compensation is 
still available to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8395922