K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  wont accept a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy for further  repairs to his car. He wants his car repaired.
background
Mr Cs car was repaired by Aviva following an accident. Tests showed that the suspension  
was within  normal limits. But Mr C said there were later problems with the suspension but 
Aviva wouldnt  repair it. Aviva  said the car was tested and driven without  concern after the 
repairs were made. Aviva  said the car had been  involved in a further incident and driven for 
a further 500 miles so the suspension problem wasnt due to the first incident. It offered to 
open a new claim  for Mr C.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Aviva  
had reasonably concluded  that the suspension  damage had occurred after the initial  repairs.  
She thought  this was supported by an engineers report. 
Mr C asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C is concerned that Avivas garage  may not have repaired his car 
fully. Were  not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be 
caused as this is a matter  for the experts  in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
When Mr Cs car was repaired, a geometry  test was carried out and found normal readings. 
I can see that when  Mr Cs car was returned to him it was driven for an hour to him and the 
driver didnt report any issues. An MOT  carried  out three days after the repairs didnt find 
problems with the suspension. But it did point out that there was wear  to some related parts. 
Mr C said he noticed a problem when the car was returned to him. But I havent seen 
evidence to confirm  this. I can see that Mr C contacted Aviva  two months later to say that 
there were knocking noises under  the bonnet and the car wasnt driving right.  Aviva  asked  
him to take the car to the repairing garage  and it did another  geometry test that found  
problems. It said these  were unrelated to the first incident and it noted  that there had been a 
second collision and the car had been driven  a further 500 miles. 
Mr C was unhappy with this and so Aviva  asked its own engineer  to inspect the car. I think  
this was fair and reasonable as a way of settling  the dispute. 
Ref: DRN89324292The engineers report said that there was no evidence of problems with the suspension 
following the repairs. He noted the MOTs  advisory note about wear to related parts  and 
he thought these had become further  worn since the repairs  and so caused the problems 
Mr C noticed. A dealership also said the suspension damage was unrelated  to the 
accident or the repairs. 
I think its reasonable for Aviva to rely on the expert engineers conclusion  that the 
suspension damage wasnt caused by the initial incident. I cant see any further evidence to 
challenge this. So I think Aviva has justified its decision not to carry out repairs to Mr Cs 
suspension under  his claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8932429