K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that she was mis-sold  a Passport Account and a Plus Account by HSBC 
UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
background
Mrs R took out a Passport  Account with HSBC  in October 2007 for which  she was charged a 
fee.
She then upgraded to an HSBC Plus Account also with a fee in August 2008.
Mrs R says that HSBC mis-sold  them to her.
HSBC has upheld her complaint  about the sale of the Plus Account and offered redress  to 
her in line with this services approach.
HSBC has not upheld her complaint about  the sale of the Passport account 
Our adjudicator thought that HSBCs  response  was fair. Mrs R disagrees so the case  has 
come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Rs complaint.
As HSBC has upheld Mrs Rs complaint about  the Plus Account and offered  her fair redress, I 
dont need to look at that. So I will only consider her complaint  about  the Passport Account.
Mrs R says she was not told that she could take out a fee free account  rather  than pay a 
monthly fee for the Passport Account.
HSBC says that Mrs R didnt qualify for a fee free account with the bank because she did not 
have a UK address and she had no credit  history it could refer to.
So Ive considered first if Mrs R knew she had a choice whether to take out the Passport 
Account in October 2007 or not and whether  she chose to do so.
In my view I think she did. I say this because HSBC has provided evidence  that it didnt offer 
a fee free account to someone without an address or a credit history; and the Passport 
Account was their only product offered to anyone  in Mrs Rs circumstances. So when she 
met HSBC in a face to face meeting in a branch, I think  its more likely than not that its 
representative told her this and she was aware  she was choosing  between a Passport  
Account and having no account with HSBC.
Next I will consider what HSBC was required to do when it sold the Passport  Account  to Mrs 
R.
HSBC says that it didnt  recommend the Passport Account or advise Mrs R to take it out. 
Ref: DRN88659082I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mrs Rs needs and circumstances or suitability checks  to show  me clearly 
that HSBC did make  a personal recommendation to her. I accept its possible that in providing  
information to Mrs R and explaining the benefits of the Passport Account, HSBC may have  
said or implied that it was good idea to take out the account. But this isnt the same as giving a 
personal recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of HSBCs sales  practices 
at the time, I think its more likely  than not that HSBC sold the Passport Account to Mrs R on 
an information only basis. 
This means  HSBC did not have to ensure that the Passport Account was suitable for Mrs A, it 
only had to provide  Mrs A with good  enough information about  the account  so she could make  
an informed decision about  whether  to have it or not.
The Passport Account was a very simple account so in Mrs Rs face to face conversation 
with HSBC, I think its more likely  than not that she was told enough  about  it. And, as this 
was not an advised sale, HSBC was not required to advise or explain to Mrs R what else 
might be available  in the marketplace.  
So, although  I know this will be disappointing for Mrs R, in my view she knew  she had a 
choice whether to take out the Passport Account or not and she chose to do so. I think there 
was no information  that Mrs R didnt receive from HSBC that it should have provided  that 
would likely  have put her off taking it out. And I dont think Mrs R lost out as a result of 
anything HSBC may have  done wrong when  it sold her the Passport Account.
 my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8865908