K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that a van that was supplied to her sole-trader business by 
Lex Autolease Limited wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
Miss C used a broker to find and finance  a refrigerated van for her business. She discussed 
her needs  and intended use of the van with the broker. A new van was then supplied  to 
Miss Cs business under  a hire agreement with Lex Autolease that was signed in 
August 2016.  And the broker  arranged  for the van to be fitted with a refrigeration  unit by a 
refrigeration specialist.  
But Miss C suffered issues with the vans battery  draining. The van was repaired but the 
battery kept draining.  The van was inspected and no fault was found. The refrigeration unit 
was inspected and no fault was found.  Lex Autolease said that the dealer and its specialist 
both think that its likely that the van isnt being driven enough  for the battery to successfully 
recharge so the battery  draining  could  be due to the low mileage that Miss C drives  in the 
van. And it said that she should change her driving style to include a drive of 20 to 30 
minutes on free flowing  roads which should be sufficient  to recharge the battery to a high 
enough level to cope with the demands of the fridge. 
Miss C complained to Lex Autolease  but she wasnt satisfied with its response  so 
complained to this service. She says that the dealer  had several opportunities to fix this 
issue but the battery continues to drain so she would like to reject  the van. She says that the 
van has been out of use for a total of nearly  three  months due to the issues  and repairs,  
which has caused a huge disruption and inconvenience with the running  of her business.  
And she says that its not realistic to change her driving style to ensure the van works and 
she wasnt informed of that requirement  at the point  of sale and its not written in any 
document. She says that she told the broker and the refrigeration specialist what she 
needed the van for and how she was intending  to use it and that shes used the van and 
refrigeration unit as stated in the specifications. Lex Autolease accepted  that thered been a 
delay in progressing  Miss Cs complaint  and it sent her a cheque  for £50 as compensation 
for that  but shes not cashed the cheque.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She believed  that it 
was more likely than not that there was a fault with the refrigeration unit and the van wasnt 
fit for purpose or Miss Cs needs  from the point of sale. So she recommended that Lex 
Autolease should  allow  her to reject the van  and that it should arrange to collect  the van 
and to cancel  the agreement. And she said that it should refund three monthly payments to 
reflect the time that Miss C was without the van and the time that she was unable to use it 
due to the recurring battery issues. She also said that it should  pay her £300  compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience that Miss C has been caused. And she said that it should  
also re-send the £50 cheque for the delays caused  in progressing her complaint.
Lex Autolease has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that:
it received an order from Miss Cs broker for a van with a fridge conversion and it 
supplied it under a hire agreement - and it says that its not liable if the broker  (or the 
refrigeration specialist) made a poor recommendation  to Miss C;
Ref: DRN82909442theres no evidence  to suggest  that theres  a fault with the van, or with the fridge 
conversion, but a specialist has concluded  Miss Cs use of the van isnt sufficient for 
the battery to recharge; and
without evidence of a fault with the van (or evidence of mis-representation by 
Lex Autolease) it cant accept rejection of the van.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the supplier under the hire agreement, I consider that Lex Autolease  was responsible  for 
supplying a van of satisfactory quality to Miss C - and that includes the van being 
satisfactory for the purposes that she expressly or impliedly told it about prior to the 
agreement.
Under section 10 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015, a contract to supply goods  is to be 
treated as including  a term that the goods are reasonably fit for any purpose that the 
consumer makes known  to the trader (expressly  or by implication) for which  the consumer is 
contracting for the goods, whether or not that is a purpose for which goods of that kind are 
usually supplied.
I consider that Miss C made  the broker aware  of the purpose for which  she would be using 
the van  and that it was reasonable for her to expect that the van that was supplied  to her 
was fit for that purpose.
But the van that was supplied to Miss C isnt fit for that purpose as the refrigeration unit is 
causing the battery to go flat when she uses the van. The van and the refrigeration unit have 
both been inspected and no fault has been  found.  But there doesnt seem  to be any dispute 
that the battery on the van that was supplied to Miss C keeps going flat which stops  her 
using it for her intended purpose.
Miss C has been told that she should  change her driving style to include a drive  of 20 to 30 
minutes on free flowing  roads which should be sufficient  to recharge the battery to a high 
enough level to cope with the demands of the fridge. But I dont consider it to be fair and 
reasonable for Miss C to have to change her driving style for the van to work properly. And I 
dont consider it to be likely that she wouldve  agreed to hire the van if shed known that 
shed have to change her driving  style.
So I find that the van isnt fit for purpose in these circumstances. And I find that 
Lex Autolease should  accept Miss Cs rejection of the van  so it should arrange to collect 
the van from her and to cancel the hire agreement  - both at no cost to her.
Miss C use of the van has been  affected by the issues that shes  had with it  and when it 
was being repaired. And I find that Lex Autolease should refund to Miss C three monthly 
payments under the hire agreement to compensate her for that. And shes been caused  
considerable distress  and inconvenience by these events. I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to also pay her £300 compensation for that distress and inconvenience.  
Lex Autolease sent Miss C a cheque for £50 to compensate  her for its delay in progressing  
her complaint  but she didnt cash that cheque.  I consider that it should send her £50 
compensation for that delay (so long as she hasnt cashed the cheque that it sent her).
Ref: DRN82909443my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint. And I order  Lex 
Autolease Limited  to:
1.End the hire agreement and arrange  for the van to be collected from Miss C  both at 
no cost to her.
2.Refund to Miss C three monthly payments that shes made under the agreement.
3.Pay £300 to Miss C to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  that shes  
been caused.
4.Pay £50 to Miss C to compensate her for its delay in dealing  with her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8290944