K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that First Response Finance Ltd (FRF)  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  alongside finance to buy a car.
background
Mr and Mrs S were  sold the PPI during a phone call between FRF and Mr S in 2010.  
Although it was a joint loan, the policy just covered Mr S. It was a single premium policy,  the 
cost of which was added to the car loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagree with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they were told they had to have the PPI to get the loan agreed,  so they 
werent given a choice about having  it. The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if Mr and Mrs Ss recollection  of events  has faded. Ive listened to the phone  call 
between Mr S and the adviser in which the PPI was sold. Its clear  that the finance for the 
car has already  been agreed  before the discussion then turns to Mr Ss insurance needs. I 
think the adviser makes  it clear that the policy is optional and that Mr S doesnt  have to take 
it out. It seems to me that he decided  to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even  if he no 
longer remembers doing  so.
FRF advised Mr S to take out the PPI. Therefore, in recommending it to him, he needed  to 
ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ss circumstances at the time,  the 
policy was suitable  for him.
Mr S has told us that he would have  received  between 6 and 12 months sick pay. But on the 
phone with the adviser he told her that he would  have  received 10 weeks  sick pay. 
Regardless of the actual  amount, the policy would have paid out in addition  to any sick pay 
and potentially for longer than Mr S would have received full pay for. And the couple have 
told us that they didnt  have any other  means, such as savings, to fall back  on. So I think 
they had a need for the policy  and could have benefitted from it. And in fact Mr S did make a 
successful claim  for unemployment in 2012  and received  a pay out of £468.20.
The policy did not provide a proportional  refund if it was cancelled early,  However I havent  
seen any evidence that, at the point Mr and Mrs S took out the policy, that it was likely they 
thought theyd be repaying  the loan early.  So the cancellation terms did not make the policy  
unsuitable.
FRF also needed to provide Mr and Mrs S with enough information for them to make  an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them.
Ref: DRN80415322The adviser tells Mr S what the monthly  cost of the cover is. She then tells him the total price 
for the PPI, including interest. She didnt tell him how much of that total cost was made up of 
interest. But as Mr S was happy with what hed been paying per month  and what the total 
amount was over the term of the loan, Im not persuaded that knowing the amount of interest 
would have caused him to change his mind  about buying the policy.
Its possible that FRF could have  provided  clearer information about some  parts  of the PPI, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. So again,  I dont think that more  information  would have caused  him to change his 
mind. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid for the policy  and whether FRF 
treated them  unfairly. 
FRFs told us that the commission for the policy was less than half of what Mr and Mrs S 
paid for the premium.  Weve looked at how FRF has been working this out and, based on 
what weve seen, it looks like its right  the commission  was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission  so I dont 
think FRF treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs S back  any of 
the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8041532