K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that Lookers Motor  Group  Limited (Lookers) mis-sold her Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  alongside  a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2008 Miss T took out a loan through Lookers to buy a car. At the same time she also took 
out PPI designed to protect her loan in the event  of death  the policy  provided  life cover 
only. It cost around £23 a month and covered the loan for a term of three  years.
The adjudicator concluded Miss T had lost out and recommended the complaint be upheld.  
He said he didnt think it was right for Lookers  to have recommended a life cover  only PPI 
policy to Miss T because it wasnt suitable  for her  she was single and had no financial 
dependants, so there  was nobody who stood to lose out financially if anything  happened to 
her.
Lookers havent  responded  to the adjudicators opinion, so its assumed they reject the 
conclusions reached.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Miss Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN89905722It doesnt appear to be disputed  that Lookers advised Miss T and gave her a personal 
recommendation to take out PPI. This means Lookers not only had to give Miss T enough 
clear, fair and timely  information about the policy it was recommending  so she could make 
an informed decision about  it, it also had to advise her with reasonable care and skill taking 
sufficient steps to ensure the policy was suitable for her demands  and needs at the time. Ive 
kept this in mind  in my consideration of this complaint.
Understandably due to the passage of time there  is limited information and paperwork about  
what happened. Lookers  have provided a copy of the loan agreement. And this shows the 
level of PPI cover taken and its cost.  It also in my view shows, more likely  than not, that Miss 
T understood the cover was optional and that she had a choice about whether to take it or 
note (albeit cover that was recommended to her)  for example she had to sign separately  to 
take it out and because  of the way it was set out on the agreement.
But theres no other paperwork to show me what steps, if any, Lookers took to ensure the 
PPI cover it recommended  was suitable for Miss T and why it was recommended.  But Miss 
Ts circumstances are known at the time as are the details  of her borrowing.
So was the recommendation for PPI suitable? I am not persuaded it was. Miss Ts 
circumstances reveal  she was single; she had no financial  dependants;  and nothing to 
indicate she had significant financial commitments. In addition the borrowing Miss T took out 
was only over a term of three years, which in my view can reasonably  be described as short 
term. It also strikes me that £23 a month for life cover over this short term was an expensive 
way to provide  protection. I think  this was something  the adviser should have considered 
too.
In light of the above, it is therefore difficult for me to see that in Miss Ts individual 
circumstances at the time she fairly  and reasonably had a need for a PPI policy  that only 
provided her with life cover and at that cost. In the event of her death she didnt have any 
financial dependants to protect  against leaving an outstanding debt  there was nobody 
close to and/or reliant on her that stood to lose out financially from her death.
I accept its possible that Miss Ts circumstances  might or were likely to change in the future 
and this was considered  in the recommendation made. But Ive not seen anything to suggest  
this was more  likely than not the case and that the reason for the recommendation was 
because Miss Ts circumstances were due to change shortly and so she had a need  for 
cover. 
So overall and having carefully considered  all of the evidence available to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I find that the recommendation 
made to Miss T to take out PPI was unsuitable based on her particular circumstances at the 
time. I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Lookers to have  recommended  it to her.
Its necessary for me to therefore go and consider if and to what extent Miss T has lost out 
as a result. And having done so Ive decided  Miss T has suffered loss because  I think  Miss T 
fairly and reasonably relied on the advice she was being given. And so I find it unlikely that 
she would  still have  gone ahead with the policy if shed  been properly advised and informed. 
Miss T therefore needs  to be fairly compensated for her loss.
Ref: DRN89905723putting things right
The aim of fair compensation  is to put Miss T back in the position she would otherwise have 
been but for Lookers failings. So Lookers  should:
Pay Miss T the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Lookers to take off tax from this interest. Lookers must 
give Miss T a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that Miss T has suffered loss as a 
result of taking out PPI with her loan, so I make an award in her favour. This means  Lookers  
Motor Group  Limited should put things  right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8990572