K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that in 2011 when he attended a branch of Bank of Scotland  plc to withdraw 
money, he suffered  public humiliation  and distress. He was banned  from the branch and has 
been unable  to personally attend  to his banking  since. 
background
In February 2011  Mr B attended a branch to withdraw money but was unable  to. He says he 
was thrown a form to complete without explanation. He refused. His says withdrawal was 
denied and when  he tried to get help from the help desk he was told perhaps he didnt have 
any money. He says he tried to close the account  but that was refused and when he asked 
for the manager  someone with terrible communication skills turned up. He says all the staff 
behind the counter had a good laugh at him. The manager called the police but they never 
turned up and the manager told him to leave the bank.  
Mr B has been pursuing his complaint  that he has been banned from the branch. Bank of 
Scotland issued  a final response in June  2016 explaining there  was no evidence  of the 
events complained of and that a long serving  member of staff confirmed that no-person  has 
ever been  banned completely from the branch;  although customers may have been asked to 
leave on a specific day. Mr B appealed resetting out his concerns and that hed had a 
previous inadequate response  to his complaint and was still waiting for something further. 
Bank of Scotland issued a further  response  standing by its decision  with regards to the 
branch but apologised  if Mr B was expecting a further response  that hadnt  been received 
and offered £50 compensation. Mr B wrote again but it explained that it wouldnt  enter  into 
further correspondence and said any further  letters  would be added to file. 
Mr B says he wrote numerous  further letters about this matter  and he didnt receive any 
response. He complained again  in 2018  and Bank  of Scotland  issued a final response in 
November 2018.  It said it there was no recollection  of the events  complained of but took    
Mr B at his word and offered £50 compensation. 
Not happy with that, Mr B asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator  didnt uphold the 
complaint. She found there were no records of the events complained of and she would at 
least expect to see instructions for staff if he had been banned.  In the circumstances, she 
didnt uphold  the complaint and found  the compensation offered was more  than she would 
have awarded. Mr B has asked for the matter to be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
I understand Mr B feels very strongly about  this matter and would like to see his complaint 
upheld. But I can only uphold a complaint if I find that Bank of Scotland has done something  
wrong. 
The events complained about  took place in 2011,  over eight years ago now. Because of the 
passage of time, understandably the branch  manager has no recollection of what  happened.  
A long standing member  of staff has, however, confirmed that she is not aware of any 
customer being permanently banned from the branch. 
Ref: DRN88854912She did explain that if a customer had behaved  badly in the branch they would be asked to 
leave, but there has never been a permanent banning. And I note from Mr B that he has 
made reference to other customers swearing and being abusive in branch but not being 
asked to leave.  I dont know if Mr B is saying  that he behaved badly towards staff but is 
being treated  differently from other customers who do likewise,  or that others have behaved  
worse than he yet receive more  positive treatment. 
If Mr B had been abusive with staff then I wouldnt find Bank of Scotland was wrong to ask 
him to leave.  Had he been  banned  permanently I would expect to see an instruction to this 
effect on his file. Otherwise  staff wouldnt know whether or not he was allowed  in branch. I 
havent seen any persuasive evidence to show that he has been permanently  banned.  To 
the contrary, Mr B has been told on several occasions that he is able to attend branch if he 
wishes to do so. 
Mr B has also provided evidence that a family  member has been written to about their 
behaviour in branch. But I dont think that is relevant  to my consideration, it was a number of 
years later and to a different person. 
In the absence of any persuasive  evidence of the events Mr B says happened,  or that he 
has been banned from branch, I dont uphold his complaint.  Im aware that Bank  of Scotland 
has previously made  compensation offers to Mr B. I leave  it to Mr B to contact Bank of 
Scotland if on reflection he now wants to accept those offers,  to find out if they are still open 
for acceptance. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8885491