K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax refused to refund his call costs  
when he contacted it from abroad.
background
Mr E says he was told by Halifax in 2018 that it would pay for his call costs when he called it 
from abroad. He says he called it in February  2019 and was told he would receive a call 
back which he didnt receive. Mr E says he made further calls to Halifax about  the promised 
calls and asked it to listen to the previous calls between  them  which it refused to do. He says 
that call wasnt handled appropriately and he would like compensation for the stress  hes 
been caused and his call costs refunded.
Halifax says its paid £20 for Mr Es first call to it and £25 for any inconvenience  he was 
caused. It says it tried to contact Mr E twice on 14 February 2019 and 18 February  2019  but 
without success.  Halifax  doesnt agree that it agreed  to pay for Mr Es call costs  from abroad 
and suggests  Mr E find a new bank  or building society as it says its clear Mr E is unhappy 
with it.
Mr E brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it unlikely Halifax would have agreed to cover call costs indefinitely  and thought  
Halifax had tried to contact Mr E but without success. The investigator thought the call cost 
payment and the compensation  fair and reasonable and that Halifax  had dealt appropriately  
with Mr E. The investigator accepted there  may have been  some confusion between  the 
parties during  the call in 2018  but thought the advisor was referring  to that calls costs  and 
not others.
Mr E doesnt  accept that view and says the reasonable person would have thought  Halifax  
did mean it would cover  all future  call costs and that his credit card was designed for foreign 
use which supports that view. He says Halifax should pay for the calls he made it in 2019 as 
he believed  they would  be covered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr E will be disappointed  by my decision.
I dont think it was reasonable  of Mr E to believe that all future call costs would be covered 
by Halifax and I dont  think he was told by Halifax that was the case. If Mr E believed that 
then that is not something I can fairly  hold Halifax responsible for in these circumstances and 
I dont think a reasonable person would  have thought that as Mr E suggests. And I have 
listened to all of the calls Halifax has given me and Im satisfied that at no stage during any 
of those calls did Halifax agree to pay indefinitely  for any of Mr Es future  calls to it. 
I am satisfied Halifax fairly agreed to cover  the call costs of the first call and fairly paid 
compensation of £25 for what took place. I also think  Halifax  tried on two occasions  to call 
Mr E back. I appreciate  that Mr E says he didnt receive those calls and that they may have 
been made too late for him to receive  in any event. So I dont think  Halifax acted unfairly  in 
those circumstances  and I appreciate  both parties difficulties in trying to communicate using 
a very small window. 
Ref: DRN80382682I have listened  to the calls between the parties and Im satisfied Halifax  dealt appropriately 
with Mr E during them. I dont think the Halifax staff member had a poor attitude as Mr E 
says but tried to explain Halifaxs  position  to him. I also think  that the calls took some time as 
Mr E wanted  Halifax to check certain matters and repeated his request for information that 
Halifax provided, such as details of his telephone number. I think  that had the effect of 
increasing the length of the call and, although Mr E hasnt provided evidence of his call 
costs, may have increased  those call costs.
Overall I dont think it realistic or reasonable to have thought Halifax would pay for Mr Es call 
costs whilst abroad indefinitely or that Halifax suggested that was the case. I think  Halifax 
has acted fairly by paying for the first call and so I dont require it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I also dont think that it makes  any difference  that the credit 
card was suitable for foreign  use or that adds any weight to what  Mr E says about the future 
call costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8038268