K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Nationwide Building Society offered her a mortgage with a free legal 
service but she ended up having to pay some legal fees. Shed like what  shes  paid in legal 
fees refunded.
background
Last year Miss H approached her broker to enquire  about a re-mortgage and to purchase a 
further 10% of her shared  ownership property. She opted for a Nationwide  mortgage,  which  
included an incentive  of free standard legal work. 
Miss H was unhappy that, in the end, she had to pay for some of the legal  costs  and, she 
thought, this was more  expensive that it wouldve been if shed used a solicitor  of her own 
choosing. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Nationwide had done anything wrong. He said,  in summary, that 
the mortgage offer and documents Miss H had been sent explained  that any legal work 
involved in purchasing an additional  share of a shared ownership property would be 
considered non-standard and incur  additional  costs. He said the information  provided by 
Nationwide was clear  and invited her to contact it, or her broker, if she had questions. 
Miss H didnt accept the adjudicators view. She said she couldnt have contacted 
Nationwide to ask about what was included  in the legal fees offer because she lived too far 
from a Nationwide  branch and she dealt  with her broker  solely by phone. Miss H also said 
that the £550 she ended up having  to pay towards the legal costs was more  than she 
wouldve had to pay if shed paid for all of the legal costs herself, using her own solicitor. 
As Miss H didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Nationwide  
have made  a mistake. 
Miss H didnt take out her mortgage with Nationwide directly - she used a broker  who gave  
her mortgage advice and recommended a particular mortgage to her. It would have been the 
brokers role to try to find a mortgage  with the features that Miss H wanted,  and explain to 
her why it was suitable for her needs at the time.  Its not clear to me what the broker did or 
didnt tell Miss H about the legal fees.  But Nationwide wouldnt be responsible for the sale of 
the mortgage or the advice that was given by the broker.  
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Hs mortgage  offer and the key facts document. In section 12 of 
both, under the heading Incentives, it sets out that Nationwide will appoint  a solicitor  and 
pay for standard legal  work relating  to a re-mortgage. That section goes on to say that 
clarification of the incentive can be obtained from a local branch, calling Nationwide or by 
asking the solicitor appointed. 
Nationwide also wrote to Miss H on 24 October 2018 with a document enclosed called 
Remortgaging  additional fees you might need  to pay. This document set out a list of work 
and the applicable fee for each. One of the things on the list was Shared ownership Leases 
Ref: DRN85478452(including purchases of additional shares) plus Land Registry fees, searches, stamp 
duty/land transaction tax. So I think Nationwide  did provide Miss H with accurate information 
about what was and wasnt included in the free legal fees.  
Miss H says she couldnt have made further  enquiries about this offer before proceeding with 
the mortgage because she only communicated with her broker  by phone, she doesnt live 
near a Nationwide branch and she should  be able to trust Nationwide to provide her with 
accurate information,  without needing to check everything it says. 
Im not sure why Miss H couldnt  have  called Nationwide or asked her broker  about  what 
was, or wasnt included in the free legal fees, if she felt this wasnt clear. The mortgage  offer 
and key facts document also lists some examples of what might be considered  non-
standard. Admittedly,  work related to a shared ownership property isnt mentioned here.  But 
I think it wouldve been clear enough, especially considering the document  sent on 
24 October, to Miss H that there might be legal costs that fell outside  the offer  which she 
would be responsible for paying. 
Miss H has told us she expected to have to contribute towards the legal costs  because  her 
re-mortgage involved a shared ownership property. But says she couldve paid for all the 
legal costs associated  with her re-mortgage  for less than the £550 she ended up paying. 
She hasnt  provided  any evidence  that she couldve got all the legal work done for less than 
this. But even if it that was the case,  as I dont think Nationwide  have  done  anything wrong I 
cant fairly require them  to refund the legal  fees that Miss H would  like them  to. 
Having considered everything  Nationwide gave Miss H before she accepted the offer,  I think  
it was sufficient for her to make a decision about whether she wanted to accept it. Miss H did 
accept and, based on what shes told us, I think she did so knowing that there might be legal 
costs that fell outside of the incentive that shed  have  to pay. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8547845