K820x#14complaint
Miss D and Mr D complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have 
cancelled their property  insurance policy.
background
In April 2018 Miss D and Mr D took out an insurance  policy to cover  their newly  purchased 
home. A few months later, they noticed  a crack on the front of their property  and so they 
contacted LV to make a claim. A loss adjuster was sent out and he noticed  other  cracks in 
the property. Miss D and Mr D said these cracks had been  there  prior to them  buying  the 
home and so he requested a copy of the survey from the sale.
The homebuyers survey  reported movement between the front porch and the main  building. 
It commented that the porch may have less substantial foundations than the main property 
and the movement could be progressive. It went on to say that this is serious and should be 
investigated urgently.  When  the homebuyers survey report  was provided to LV it cancelled 
Miss D and Mr Ds policy. It said that there  was evidence  of subsidence at the property 
which hadnt been declared  when  the policy was taken out. LV said if it had been  told about 
the potential subsidence it would have  refused  to cover the property. And as the policy  was 
cancelled, there was no policy under which to consider the claim for the more  recent  
damage.
Unhappy with this outcome,  Miss D and Mr D made  a complaint. They  said that the claim 
didnt relate  to the previous damage.  And that they didnt know  their home had subsidence 
as the homebuyers survey refers  to movement, not subsidence. They also said they have 
subsequently had another survey done on the property which shows  that the cracks are not 
related to subsidence.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She found that as there was mention of potential 
movement on the homebuyers survey, which hadnt been investigated when they purchased  
the policy, Miss D and Mr D should have declared this to LV at the time.  And she said that 
LV was fair to void the policy as it had shown that it wouldnt have provided cover  if this had 
been notified. She also said that it didnt have to consider the claim as the policy wouldnt 
have existed, had the correct information been  given  on the application.
Miss D and Mr D disagree with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete,  I have reached  my decision  on the balance of 
probabilities  this means I have determined what I consider is more likely to have 
happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances.
When taking out insurance Miss D and Mr D had a duty under the Consumer  Insurance  
(Disclosure & Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA)  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when providing information  to the insurer.
Ref: DRN86917752When considering  such complaints,  we need  to be satisfied that a clear  question was 
asked by the insurer. And that if the right information  has been given, it would have made  
a difference to the insurance offered  either  the insurer would  have refused to provide 
cover or would have  offered to cover but on different terms (such  as charging additional 
premiums).
LV has given examples of the pages  from the online application which it says 
Miss D and Mr D would have seen when they took out the policy.  These pages show that 
they would  have been asked if their property suffered from or does it show  any signs  of 
damage caused by subsidence, landslip or heave?. They were asked to select  either Yes 
or No in response  to this question. There is an information icon which,  if selected, gives 
additional information about  subsidence which it describes as the sinking of the ground 
your home stands on. Subsidence  damage can appear as cracks around windows or 
doors. Im satisfied this was a clear question.
LV has told us that if Miss D and Mr D had declared that there were signs of subsidence at 
their property, the application would have been refused. Due to the time that has passed, 
LV cant  provide a copy of the answers given  by Miss D and Mr D but as the cover  was 
accepted, I think  its likely that Miss D and Mr D gave the answer No to this question.  
Considering that the homebuyers survey indicated that there may be an issue with 
subsidence at the property, Im of the opinion the most appropriate answer to this question  
should have been Yes. As this choice made a difference to whether the cover would be 
provided, Im satisfied this is a misrepresentation.
Miss D and Mr D argued that they didnt do anything wrong as the homebuyers survey 
mentions movement and not subsidence.  Theyve said that as ley people,  they werent 
aware that this term refers  to subsidence.  Ive thought carefully about what they have  said 
but Im not persuaded by their comments.  Movement  is a term that is commonly  used in 
relation to structural issues with buildings. I appreciate Miss D and Mr D may not have 
known what was meant by the term, but as the homebuyers report clearly  indicated that 
there may be a serious problem with the structure of the property, it is reasonable to 
assume that they would  have researched this before  agreeing  to the purchase of the 
property and taking  out the insurance.  
LV said it didnt think Miss D and Mr D had acted recklessly or deliberately in order to try to 
obtain insurance which they knew they were not entitled to. So, it has considered  this to be 
a careless misrepresentation. As a result, it has cancelled the policy,  refunded the 
premium in line with the terms  and conditions of the policy  and declined  the claim.  This is 
in line with the rules  under  CIDRA,  so I consider LV has acted reasonably here.  It has also 
told us that it hasnt detailed the cancellation  of the policy on any external databases. 
Ive noted that Miss D and Mr D have said that the claim  didnt  relate to the same  damage 
that was on the homebuyers  report so the claim should be met. But as the policy  has 
been cancelled  it is as if there was never  a policy in force, so there isnt any insurance 
cover available to consider the claim that has been  made. Im satisfied that LV has acted  
fairly in refusing the claim.  
Ive seen that Miss D and Mr D have  had a further survey  completed on the property. They  
say that, as this now shows there arent  any structural  issues  with their home,  the decision 
to cancel the policy was incorrect. But this report is from February 2019, ten months  after 
the policy was taken out. And this is also after the claim had been made and the policy  
Ref: DRN86917753cancelled. So, Im persuaded that LVs decision to cancel the policy  and refuse the claim 
was correct, based on the evidence that was available at the time. I dont think  it has acted 
unreasonably here.
Overall, when taking everything  into account, Im satisfied that LVs decision to cancel 
Miss D and Mr Ds policy was fair. I dont require  it to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8691775