K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  about the quality  of the repairs to his pickup by Highway Insurance  Company
Limited (HICL) after a claim  on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
background 
Mr Ls pickup was involved  in an accident  with another driver in December 2017. Mr L didnt
want to claim  on his policy as he held the third party at fault, but he notified HICL  so they
were aware of the incident. As his pickup couldnt be left at the scene of the accident Mr L
had it recovered  to a garage.
While Mr Ls pickup was at the garage HICL authorised for repairs to be carried  out to it. Its
not clear how or why HICL became involved when Mr L wasnt  claiming on his policy  but
both parties agree HICL authorised the repairs.
When Mr Ls pickup was repaired he complained to HICL. He said the repairs hadnt been
completed properly  and that hed never  agreed  for any repairs to be carried out. He also said
the third party  insurer  had told him his pickup would be a total loss. He asked for HICL  to fix
the issues with the repairs  or pay him the market value for his pickup.
HICL reviewed Mr Ls complaint and agreed  the repairs hadnt been completed properly.
They agreed to take responsibility and continued as if Mr L had claimed on his policy.  They
offered to have the repairing garage  fix the remaining issues  with the pickup up but Mr L
declined to have  that garage  do anymore work on his pickup. Because  of this HICL  offered
Mr L a cash in lieu payment for the remaining repairs.
Mr L didnt accept HICLs offer for how to put things  right and brought  his complaint to us. He
said the chassis on his pickup needed  replacing  as it was twisted and HICLs offer didnt
include the cost of a new chassis.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 September  2019 where I explained 
why I disagreed with our investigator and the reasons why I thought this complaint should be 
upheld. In that decision I said:
As Mr L wasnt  originally claiming  on his policy he wouldnt normally  be able to complain  
about the quality of the repairs, as they wouldnt have  been carried  out by his insurer.  In this 
case though Im satisfied  HICL are responsible for the quality of repairs. I say this because 
HICL have now dealt  with this as a claim on Mr Ls policy by charging the excess (although 
this has now been waived) agreeing to the estimate for repairs and approving the repairing 
garage to complete them. Ive therefore looked at what Mr Ls policy says it will do in the 
event of a claim.
Mr Ls policy covers  him for the loss or damage up to the market  value of the pickup 
immediately before the loss. The policy goes onto say in the event of a claim HICL will do
one of the following: repair the damage; pay Mr L the cost of replacing or repairing the
damage; or treat the vehicle as a total loss and pay him the market value.
Ref: DRN83511982By agreeing to the repairs and arranging  for them to be completed  HICL has exercised  one
of the options  it has under  the terms and conditions of the policy. Both HICL  and Mr L agree
the repairs havent been completed properly, but the issue  is how to put things  right. HICL
said the repairing  garage is willing to rectify the repairs but Mr L doesnt want them to given
the issues hes had. HICL has also said they spoke  with another  garage who said they didnt
want to do the repairs,  but havent  given a reason why. Because of this HICL offered cash  in
lieu (CIL) payment.
Given the concerns  Mr L has about the quality  of the repairs and the questions about  what
still needs repairing  I understand  why Mr L doesnt want to use the same garage.
Mr L said hes happy with the CIL payment but doesnt agree with the amount offered of
£2,456.14. From looking at the report which came to this figure Im not persuaded its a fair
amount to offer. I say this because in the section marked  repair costs the report  says No
estimate has been obtained  for repairing the vehicle but I have calculated the time involved
in such a repair and I consider that a reasonable labour charge would be £1,760.40. The
report then goes on to list some additional  costs  to bring the total to £2,456.14 not including
VAT. As this report hasnt explained how the repair cost has been calculated Im not satisfied
its fair and reasonable to rely on this figure.
There is also a second report completed  by HICLs engineers, which  is the same type of
report used to calculate the original  repair, including labour, parts  and fitting. This report
gives a figure of £4,527.41 not including VAT. Mr L said this report doesnt include the
chassis repairs so isnt the correct repair cost either. Hes said the engineers report  hes
provided says there is no repair method for the issues its identified so his pickup would need
a new chassis.
Ive reviewed the engineers report Mr L provided  and it says I would suggest  if the chassis
is found to be outside tolerance  the only viable method would be to have the chassis
replaced. The report also says it looks like there are chassis  alignment  issues and
recommends a full chassis  alignment  check.  The second report  says it includes aligning
vehicle front and rear and body alignment  on jig. As Mr Ls report recommends a full chassis
alignment jig and the second  report includes this Im satisfied the quote to repair the issues
in the second report are more in line with those recommended in Mr Ls report.  However if
Mr Ls pickup does  need a new chassis this would  add to the repair  cost.
HICL have also reviewed  the two reports detailing  the repair costs and agree the lower one
doesnt include all items listed in the second  report.  Because of this they would like to
inspect Mr Ls pick up again and review its cash in lieu offer.  HICL  have  also said they will
ask their engineers  to include  the cost of having  Mr Ls pickup put on alignment jig. However
from reviewing  the repair  costs in more  detail and considering how long this issue has been
going on Im not convinced  this is now a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I say this because  so far HICL has paid £13,657.43 for the initial  repairs. The second  report
shows there is another £4,527.21 worth  of repairs needed, and if the chassis  is twisted  this
figure would increase. In a best case scenario  its likely the minimum amount for repair  is
over £18,000. Mr Ls pick up had a market value of around £21,000 at the time of the
accident, meaning the repair cost is currently above 85% of the market value. In
circumstances similar to these its not unusual for a vehicle  to be deemed  a total loss when
the repair costs  get to this level. Im also satisfied this would produce a fair and reasonable
outcome in this particular  case.
Ref: DRN83511983I say this because  this issue has been going on for over 20 months  and HICL  still dont  know
the final repair bill or extent of the damage. The final repair  bill could also be higher than the
reports currently say. Im therefore satisfied a fair and reasonable outcome is for HICL to
exercise the other option under the policy  and pay Mr L the pre accident market  value for his
pickup. HICL should also add 8% simple  interest  per year from the date of the accident to
this amount to compensate Mr L for not having  the money.
Mr L said because of the issues with the repairs he hasnt  been able to use the pickup and
hes been paying for it even though  its not been used.  Because of this hes asked for these
costs back. I understand the issues have  been  going on for some  time, if the repairs  had
been completed correctly  or hed been paid the market value its likely he would have still
had these. So it wouldnt be fair to ask HICL  to cover them.
When Ive considered the impact to Mr L by this issue Ive seen  that initially as he wasnt
claiming on his policy  he wouldnt  have been entitled to another vehicle while  his was
repaired. Once HICL became aware of the repair issues  and dealt with this as a claim Mr L
was provided with a courtesy car. This was then taken  back once Mr Ls pickup had been
repaired. So while  the repair was carried out Im satisfied HICL did what  it should  have.
Mr L said because he couldnt  use his pickup he purchased another  vehicle at a cost of
£5,795. This cost includes the purchase price, repair bill and insurance, Mr L has also
provided evidence  of the purchase price and repair bill. Hes said that he intends to sell the
other vehicle  once this matter is resolved.  Ive therefore looked at the trade guides to see
what the current market  value is for this vehicle. Due to the age of the vehicle not all guides
are able to value it, but the one guide that is able to has valued it at £4,425 for a private sale.
The difference in this and what Mr L has paid for the vehicle is £1,370, Im satisfied its fair
for HICL to cover this cost as Mr L has had to do maintenance on this vehicle to make sure it
was road worthy and insured it as well as paying  to insure his pick-up. Mr Ls pick up was
only 13 months old when  the accident happened, its therefore unlikely to have needed
additional maintenance other than normal servicing  and running  costs. Mr L shouldnt have
had these additional costs and as hes paid for his pickup and this other vehicle at the same
time, hes paid for an additional insurance  and maintenance costs  he shouldnt have had. So
HICL should reimburse Mr L £1,370 for these. HICL should also add 8% simple  interest  per
year from the date Mr Ls paid these  costs to the date it settles to compensate Mr L for not
having the money.
This matter has been going on for a long time and I can see Mr L has spent a lot of time
trying to get it resolved. This includes having an independent report done and chasing up
HICL and the repairing garages  multiple times. Because his claim hasnt been dealt with as it
should have Mr L has suffered  a lot of unnecessary distress and inconvenience. To put this
right HICL should pay Mr L £500 to compensate him for this. As Mr L had to pay £169  for the
additional engineers report to show the errors with the repair  HICL  should also reimburse
Mr L for this. They should also add 8% simple interest per year from the date he paid it until
the date it settles  to compensate Mr L for not having  the money.
Ref: DRN83511984HICL responded  to say they accepted my provisional findings. Mr L also responded and said 
he would  be prepared to accept it but the following points need further consideration:
his out of pocket  expenses  are £389  plus VAT
hire vehicle should have been  like for like and recoverable from the responsible party
the value of his pickup  at the time of the accident was around  £29,000  plus VAT
costs incurred for the extra  vehicle had been awarded twice totalling  £2,740  but the 
final page only awarded £1,370
compensation of £500 for distress  and inconvenience was too low 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In regards to Mr Ls out of pocket expenses, hes listed three different costs and said these 
totalled £389 plus VAT. Ive reviewed these and it wouldnt be fair to tell HICL to cover  them  
all. One cost for £140 is for towing Mr Ls pickup to the garage he initially  chose. As Mr L 
wasnt originally claiming on his policy he would always had to have paid the recovery  costs. 
So it wouldnt be fair to tell HICL to cover  it. 
Mr L explained he also incurred a cost of £80 for a workshop ramp  needed for the engineer 
to complete his report. Ive forwarded this cost to HICL as it wasnt  included in my provisional 
findings, and as it was needed  to get the report Im satisfied HICL should cover  it. HICL 
responded and have  agreed to cover  it as well. Due to the time he was without this money 
HICL should add 8% simple interest from the date Mr L paid for this to the date they make 
payment.
In my provisional decision Id addressed the third cost and said HICL  should pay Mr L £189  
for the report hed paid for. I didnt tell HICL to pay VAT on this amount as Mr L has told us 
he is VAT registered. Because hes able to claim VAT back it wouldnt be fair to tell HICL  to 
also pay the VAT on these costs  as this isnt a loss hes experienced. 
Mr Ls policy doesnt cover a like for like vehicle. HICL provided a courtesy car when they got 
involved in his claim, in line with the policy terms. As his policy doesnt cover a like for like 
car Im unable to say they should cover it. 
Mr L thinks his pickup  is worth around  £29,000 plus VAT. However I hadnt  made  a finding 
on how much HICL  should pay, only that it should  be the pre-accident market value. Mr L 
accepted my provisional findings of HICL  deeming his pickup a total loss under the terms of 
his policy. If he accepts  this decision HICL will need to pay the pre-accident market  value.  If 
Mr L is unhappy with the valuation offered that would need to be raised separately as this 
complaint is only about the quality of repairs. 
The costs  Mr L incurred  for the additional  vehicle are outlined in my provisional  decision 
above. I didnt  award  £1,370 twice. This amount is the difference  between  the cost Mr L has 
incurred for this vehicle  (including any additional maintenance and insurance costs) and its 
current market value  for a private sale. As Im satisfied I wasnt awarding this twice I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings on this. 
I understand Mr L has had a lot of unnecessary distress and inconvenience  during this claim. 
Im satisfied that £500 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate  him for this as 
explained in my provisional findings.  
Ref: DRN83511985my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint and require Highway Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
1.deem Mr Ls pick up a total loss and pay Mr L the market  value  at the time of the 
accident, in line with the remaining  policy terms and conditions
2.reimburse  Mr  L £169 for the engineers report
3.reimburse  Mr  L £80 for the workshop ramp
4.pay Mr L £1,370  for the difference between what he paid for the second vehicle and 
its current market value
5.pay Mr L £500 to compensate  him for the distress and inconvenience caused
Interest of 8% simple per year should be applied to 1 above and should be calculated  from
the date of the accident until the date of settlement. Interest of 8% simple per year should
also be applied to 2, 3 and 4 above and calculated from the date Mr L paid these costs until 
the date of settlement 1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Highway  Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from the interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken  off. It should also give    
Mr L a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8351198