K822xcomplaint
Mr P has complained that Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance Limited  (Lloyds)  have caused him 
to suffer  financial loss by agreeing to proceed with a claim he made under his property 
insurance policy, then subsequently informing  him theyd made  a mistake,  and declining the 
claim. Mr P said that once  Lloyds had agreed to proceed with the claim, he disposed of 
carpets which he says he would have otherwise kept and had cleaned. Hes also unhappy 
with the delays he experienced in having his claim processed, and feels the communication  
from Lloyds has been poor.
background 
Mr P first made a storm damage claim under his insurance policy  for water  damage to his 
property, in March  2018. However,  on 26 March 2018 following a report prepared  by Lloyds 
surveyor confirming there was no evidence of storm damage,  his claim was declined as no 
insured event had occurred.  The report said the water damage  was caused by age related 
deterioration of the felt covering of the bay windows which  had enabled rainwater to seep 
into the property.  Mr P had his own report carried  out on 19 April 2018 which  also confirmed 
the damage wasnt caused by a storm.
On 31 May 2018, Lloydss  claim team confirmed to Mr P that theyd  be able to consider the 
claim under the escape of water  term of the policy. Lloyds then sent a carpet analyst to the 
property to inspect  the condition  of the carpets and provide a report, which was completed 
on 1 June 2018. The report confirmed that the 10 year old floor coverings in the lounge,  
games room, hall and stairs had been damaged by dirty water ingress following a recent 
local storm. The report also said that on inspecting the floor coverings they found all the 
damaged carpets  had been uplifted,  which Mr P has since  clarified was done to allow  the 
floors to dry. They also said in their opinion, due to the nature and extent  of the damage  any 
attempt at rectification  of the carpets wouldnt be justified.  
However, on 18 June  2018 Lloyds declined  the claim because they became aware an 
escape of water from guttering was not covered by the policy.  Mr P complained to Lloyds 
about this and on 5 July 2018 a final response letter was sent to him, offering £250  for the 
inconvenience theyd  caused by incorrectly agreeing to proceed  with a claim for the water  
damage under the escape of water provisions of his insurance policy.
Mr P didnt accept Lloyds offer of compensation. He said that as a result of being  told the 
claim would proceed,  hed disposed of carpets  that he otherwise would have kept. He also 
said that the carpet analyst had taken samples from his carpets, leaving him with holes in 
the carpet that he now had to live with. And Mr P provided us with photos  showing one such 
hole. He said he therefore wanted compensation from Lloyds to enable the carpets to be 
replaced.
Our investigator considered Mr Ps complaint and agreed that the compensation Lloyds had 
offered wasnt sufficient to make  up for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered. She 
concluded that £500 should be paid by Lloyds  to Mr P. But Mr P disagreed. He said £500 
wasnt enough to compensate him for the carpets hed disposed of, and the damage  to the 
carpets that hed kept. He also said that Lloyds took the choice  away from him when they 
said theyd proceed  with the claim.  He said he was happy to live with the stained carpets. He 
also said that Lloyds  had told him it was his responsibility to remove  the carpets, and it was 
only after receiving that instruction  that he removed them.  
Ref: DRN87862922When our investigator spoke to Lloyds,  they said the carpet analyst reported that the carpets  
had been pulled back by Mr P at the join. So Lloyds took the view that As Mr P would have 
to live with a carpet thats shrunk, rippled and no longer joins;  a hole in the carpet  wouldnt 
make any difference  to him. Lloyds  said ultimately the customer  would need to replace the 
carpet at some  point  because its beyond repair. However, our investigator pointed out to 
Lloyds that Mr P said he was happy to live with shrunk carpet  and now also had to live with 
additional holes  in the carpet due to the samples being taken.
After looking at all of the available evidence, our investigator concluded that some of the 
carpets that Mr P disposed of were beyond economic repair.  She also pointed out that by 
disposing of the carpets; Mr P had denied Lloyds  the option of repairing the carpets. 
In response to our investigators view, Lloyds said that although they dont  necessarily agree 
they have penalised the customer  in any way as the carpet was beyond  repair, they were 
prepared in an effort of conciliation  and as a gesture of goodwill to pay an additional £250 as 
recommended by our investigator.
However, Mr P still didnt accept our investigators view so the case has been passed  to me 
for a decision to be made. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Lloyds were within their rights to decline Mr Ps claim under the policy  
terms and conditions. So I wont be addressing that in this decision. What  I have  considered 
is whether Mr P has suffered any distress and inconvenience  as a result  of Lloyds decision 
to progress his claim  under the escape  of water terms of the policy, and then decline that 
claim. And given the events that took place between  the time that Lloyds agreed to progress 
the claim,  and then decline it, I do think Lloyds have caused Mr P some additional distress 
and inconvenience.
Mr P says that after Lloyds told him he was responsible for disposing of the damaged 
carpets, he got rid of the carpets. However,  I havent seen any evidence  to show  that Lloyds 
did tell Mr P that he needed  to get rid of his carpets.  The report completed  by the carpet 
analyst just recorded that some of the carpets  were  ten years  old and beyond  economic 
repair. Also,  Mr P has provided  a number of photos  showing that a significant amount of 
carpet currently remains in the property.  Taking  all of this into account, I havent been  
persuaded by the available evidence that Mr Ps got rid of carpets  that he otherwise would 
have kept, based on Lloyds actions.  So I wont be awarding any compensation to Mr P for 
this.
However, I have seen evidence of a hole in one of the carpets that Mr P has kept,  and 
Lloyds has confirmed that samples were taken by the carpet analyst when they visited the 
property. If Lloyds hadnt incorrectly agreed to progress Mr Ps escape of water  claim then 
Im satisfied the report wouldnt have been needed and the samples  wouldnt have been 
taken. But given the small areas of carpet  that appear to have been affected by this, as 
indicated by a photograph provided  by Mr P, Im satisfied  that the additional compensation of 
£250 recommended  by our investigator, combined  with the £250  offered by Lloyds is 
sufficient to compensate  Mr P for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a result  of 
Lloyds incorrectly agreeing to proceed  with an escape of water claim under  his policy.
Ref: DRN87862923So for the reasons Ive given in this decision, I uphold this complaint and require  Lloyds to 
pay Mr P a total of £500 compensation, less any amount already paid. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank  General 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr P compensation in the amount of £500.  I dont  make  any other 
award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8786292