K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complained that Mortgage Express continued  to pursue her for mortgage  payments 
after she was made bankrupt.
background
Mrs M was made bankrupt and the discharged around 2015.  This mortgage pre-dates her 
bankruptcy. Mrs M says she notified ME of the bankruptcy  and sent in the keys for it to 
repossess and sell the property  but this didnt happen.
Mrs M says that ME continued  to chase her for the mortgage payments even though shes 
not liable  for them anymore. She says it only began repossession  action in 2018. If it had 
sold the property  in 2015, she wouldnt have  been  harassed for three years about a 
mortgage shes no longer liable for.
ME said it was still entitled to recover the mortgage from the property and acted  reasonably 
in keeping in touch with Mrs M. It said it did try and repossess the property before 2018,  but 
couldnt do so as there were tenants living in it,
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint, so Mrs M asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs M was declared bankrupt and then discharged,  her liability  for all pre-existing 
debts was extinguished at that point. That means  that ME couldnt  require her to make  any 
more payments to the mortgage. Nor should  it be recording a failure to make  payments to 
her credit file any more  because shes not liable to make  them.
But MEs security over the property still existed.  It could  still repossess and sell it to recover  
the mortgage balance that way. I dont think its unreasonable  for ME to keep in touch with 
Mrs M while the mortgage remains outstanding and secured over the property. In cases  like 
this, borrowers often agree to keep making repayments so that repossession can be 
avoided.
Mrs M says she tried to surrender the property  in 2015, and sent the keys in to ME. ME did 
try to repossess it at that point. But it didnt do so because tenants were  living  in the 
property. Even though  the property is tenanted, ME hasnt received any payments since 
before 2015. So it began possession proceedings again to have the tenants removed and 
the property sold.
Mrs M says it could  and should have  done that sooner. I agree that it could.  But I dont think  
shes lost out financially  because of this, since she hasnt been required to make   and 
hasnt been making  - any payments. And if the property  is sold at a shortfall, she wont  be 
liable for that either. Shes provided  a copy of her credit fil, and it appears that this mortgage 
was reported as having defaulted in 2015,  as I would expect.
Ref: DRN85273042While Mrs M wouldnt  have been contacted as often  in the meantime if ME had taken  action 
sooner after 2015, Im not persuaded that this was a cause of significant  distress. Her affairs  
are complicated  there were many other properties  too, for example  and Mrs M is well 
aware of the extent  of her legal  obligations. So I dont think  communication about  this 
mortgage would have significantly increased  Mrs Ms administrative burden,  or caused  her 
worry about having to make  payments.  In all the circumstances, while I agree that ME could 
acted sooner, I dont  think its failure to do so caused  Mrs M loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8527304