K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank plc wont  refund a number of payments 
made from a joint account he held with his mother.  
background
Mr B held a joint account with his mother.  She passed away  in May 2018,  but the events 
giving rise to this complaint go back to August 2015.  
In August  2015  Mr Bs mother made transfers   totalling £60,000  - £20,000 each on 20, 24 
and 25 August. The money  sent on 24 August was returned (it appears the transfer couldnt 
be completed, as the details of the beneficiary  account were incorrect), but Mr B later 
clarified that he was also disputing  a payment made  in January 2016, also for £20,000. 
Mr B said that he hadnt known about the payments  until around  the middle of 2016.  He 
explained that his mother had received a significant payment of compensation. Shed  then 
been befriended by someone shed  known from school,  and he had persuaded her to 
transfer money to him  from other accounts  as well as her joint NatWest account.  The 
police have been involved,  but it doesnt  appear  they are taking matters  any further. 
Mr B says that the payments  were out of character and that the bank should  have  alerted  
him to them  or taken  other steps  to ensure that his mother wasnt  the victim of a fraud or 
other crime. 
NatWest says that, as the account was a joint one, either account holder could authorise 
payments, without the agreement or involvement  of the other.  It correctly  acted on Mr Bs 
mothers instructions. It also said that branch staff checked with Mr Bs mother that she was 
acting under her own free will, and was satisfied that was the case. It didnt agree to make  
any refunds.
Mr B referred the complaint to this service and one of our adjudicators  considered it. He 
concluded, however,  that NatWest wasnt under any duty to contact Mr B before making the 
transfers and that, in making the payments, it had acted correctly. Mr B didnt agree and 
asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator did, and for similar reasons. 
The account  was set up so that either  account holder  Mr B or his mother  could give valid 
instructions to the bank. NatWest didnt need  to check  whether  Mr B knew about what  his 
mother doing, or agreed to it. 
As a general principle,  banks should generally act on the valid instructions of their 
customers. Im satisfied that Mr Bs mother gave the bank instructions to make  the 
payments; indeed, thats not really in dispute. I must therefore consider whether  there  was 
any reason for the bank not to follow those instructions. 
Mr B says that his mother was coerced or deceived into making the payments. Thats  
possible, of course,  although its also possible that she made them  willingly  and fully 
Ref: DRN82833562understanding what she was doing. It was nearly a year before Mr B indicated that he was 
concerned about  the payments, and his mother doesnt appear to have raised any issues in 
the meantime.  The banks notes indicate that there was a discussion at the time of the 
withdrawals, but that Mr Bs mother didnt suggest she was being pressured into making  the 
payments. That doesnt  mean she wasnt, of course   but I do think  it shows  that NatWest 
took steps to check the reason for them and that Mr Bs mother  was comfortable with what  
she was doing.
I note as well that Mr B says the bank should have been concerned by the unusual nature  of 
the payments.  I make two observations on that point. The first is that she had received a 
substantial payment in compensation; her finances  were in an unusual position in any event, 
where significant payments might have been  expected. But in addition  there had already 
been some  substantial payments from the account  and to that extent I dont think the 
payments were necessarily out of character or unusual.
If Mr Bs mother was tricked or coerced  into giving  money to a third party, Mr B does of 
course have my sympathy. But Im afraid I dont agree that means NatWest should 
reimburse him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require National Westminster 
Bank plc to do anything  further to resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
24 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8283356