K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that a car he has on finance  from LeasePlan  UK Limited  (LeasePlan),  was 
not of satisfactory  quality  when he received it. Hed like to reject  the car and terminate his 
finance agreement.
background
Mr I took receipt of a new car in December 2018. He financed  the deal through a hire 
agreement with LeasePlan but when he received the car he was disappointed. He told the 
dealership the car was dirty, the brakes  were stiff, the front sensors didnt work and neither 
did the heated seats or heater vents.  He also noted that the tyre pressures were  too low. 
And he later told LeasePlan he was unhappy  with the car; didnt think it was of a satisfactory 
condition, and he wanted to reject it and terminate his finance agreement  with them.
LeasePlan asked  the dealer to inspect the car. They couldnt  find any issue with the sensors, 
the vents or the brakes  but they did reset the heated seats and explained  they were  now 
working. They offered  Mr I up to £100 towards the cost of a valet  but didnt think  there was 
reason to allow him to reject the car.
So Mr I referred  his complaint to this service. Our investigator agreed with LeasePlan. She 
wasnt persuaded that any fault existed at the point of supply and she didnt think it would 
therefore be reasonable to ask LeasePlan to take any further action. She explained that she 
was satisfied the heated  seats simply needed resetting and were now working but that if Mr I 
still had a problem  with them it may be that LeasePlan needed to carry out a repair.  She 
understood that there was some  dispute  over whether Mr I had been  able to get in touch 
with LeasePlan  very early on but she explained  that even if hed contacted them  within the 
first few days, her position wouldnt have changed as there  was no proof anything was 
wrong with the car. So she didnt think LeasePlan needed to take any further action.
But Mr I disagreed. He said the heated seat issue was intermittent and that the number plate 
had even fallen  off the car since he submitted his complaint and he also said that the 
investigator hadnt considered the fact the tyre pressures had been too low when hed 
received the car and had needed attention. So Mr I asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr I but I dont think theres  sufficient evidence  to suggest the car he 
received was not of satisfactory  quality and I think LeasePlan  have  therefore  done enough 
when considering this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN87692572Mr I acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  The relevant  law says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt then LeasePlan is responsible.  On that 
basis if I thought  the car was faulty when supplied, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask 
them to put this right. 
But here Ive not seen  sufficient evidence that there were problems with the car. I can see 
that the dealership has not found  any faults with the heating vents; sensors or brakes. The 
heated seats have  apparently merely needed resetting and I dont think thats a sufficiently 
strong reason  to suggest the car was unsatisfactory. Nor do I think  it would be right to expect 
the company to allow a rejection because the car tyres were not of the required pressure or 
it was dirty. Whilst I accept this isnt ideal I think a rejection would be disproportionate  and I 
think the £100 offered towards  a valet is sufficient compensation in the circumstances.
If problems persist with the seats then I would expect LeasePlan to pay for a repair as the 
relevant legislation would entitle them to do this. But whilst I understand that Mr I says this is 
an intermittent issue, Ive not been  provided  with any evidence  the problem  remains.
I can see that Mr I had some issues getting  in touch with LeasePlan to make  his complaint 
but for clarity  I would explain,  that even if he had complained to them earlier, I wouldnt have 
thought it reasonable for him to reject  the car under his short term rights.  For that to happen 
he wouldve had to demonstrate a fault with the vehicle  and for the reasons Ive set out, I 
dont think that has been done.
So I dont  think LeasePlan need to take any action  but Mr I may wish to take up their offer of 
£100 towards a valet and Id expect LeasePlan to honour this if Mr I can provide receipts.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8769257