K820x#14complaint
In summary,  Mr E has complained that Bamboo  Limited irresponsibly provided him with a 
loan that he wasnt  able to afford. 
background
In October  2018 Bamboo provided Mr E with a loan for £2,800 repayable over 18 months.  It 
was a loan with an interest rate of 49.7% APR. The total charge for the credit was £994.82,  
which meant the total amount repayable by Mr E for the £2,800 he was borrowing, was 
£3,794.82. The monthly repayments  were £278.10. 
The information Mr E provided to Bamboo  shows that he was working  full time and 
supported his declared income of £1,700 a month. He rented his home.  Mr Es rent was 
recorded as £300 a month.  
In its response to Mr Es complaint, Bamboo said the loan was taken out for debt 
consolidation. It said it believed it had carried out sufficient and proportionate credit and 
affordability checks including a credit search.  It believed it had correctly approved Mr Es 
loan application.
Mr Es concerns were  investigated by one of our adjudicators. She asked Mr E to provide 
copies of his bank statements for the period August to November 2018. The adjudicator  
explained that the bank  statements  on another complaint of Mr Es, only showed extracts but 
not the detail of the transactions. It also appeared that Mr E had another  bank account.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She didnt think Bamboo  had carried out 
proportionate checks prior to providing  Mr E with the loan. She thought Bamboo should have 
obtained a thorough knowledge of Mr Es financial  circumstances including obtaining 
evidence. 
She went on to say that she had asked Mr E for copies of his bank statements, as 
statements from another complaint Mr E had made only showed  a snapshot of his 
circumstances. As Mr E hadnt been  able to provide full bank statements for the period 
requested, she wasnt able to assess what better checks might have shown if Bamboo had 
carried them  out. So, she couldnt say Bamboo had been wrong to provide Mr E with the 
loan. 
Mr Es representative didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. They said Mr E had a 
county court judgement made against him in June 2017. He also had seven defaults  in the 
last 36 months. The case  has been  passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Es complaint.
Ref: DRN88059232Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Bamboo  treated Mr E 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the loan.
1)Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Mr E 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?  
4)Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other  way?
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Mr E would 
be able to repay his loan in a sustainable  way? 
The rules  that Bamboo  had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Mr E could afford  to repay the loan he was wanting  to take out. 
This is often  referred to as an affordability assessment.  
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of Bamboos checks needed to reflect  
the nature  of the loan,  bearing in mind  things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rate, 
the duration of the loan, the monthly  and total amounts repayable, and any indications  of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks  Bamboo  carried out as part of its affordability assessment, needed to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks had to assess whether paying 
the loan back  would  cause Mr E any difficulties or have any adverse consequences for him. 
It would also need to take into account  factors such as the amount of money being lent, the 
term of the loan and the monthly  repayments,  the total charge for the credit and the interest 
rate being  charged.  This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above I think a reasonable and proportionate check needed  to be 
more thorough if Mr E had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to make  the loan repayments with a low income.  
It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts he had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Mr Es ability  to repay, where 
repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether Bamboo completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr E would  be able to repay his loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary,  then, the circumstances of this loan application are as follows:
Mr E was applying for a loan which had an APR of 49.7%.
Ref: DRN88059233The monthly loan repayment was approximately  10% of Mr Es recorded monthly 
income. 
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Mr E borrowed. 
Bamboo has said it did carry out some checks before  it agreed  to provide Mr E with the loan. 
And this seems to be based on carrying out a credit check to verify his income. And Mr E 
provided it with two payslips. It carried out an affordability assessment by comparing his 
income with the expenses  listed  on his application  and using office of national  statistics 
(ONS) data to calculate his living expenses.  It also said it examined his debt position  by 
reviewing his credit file.
Mr E was borrowing £2,800 over 18 months.  From  what  Ive seen, I dont think that Bamboo 
carried out reasonable and proportionate  checks on Mr Es financial position in this particular 
case. I say this because  it doesnt appear  to have carried out a borrower focussed 
verification of Mr Es expenditure and appears  to have  relied  on what  Mr E told it about his 
expenses and ONS data.  I think it should have asked Mr E to provide evidence  to support 
what he had told it about his expenses, to ensure that he was able to afford to make the 
monthly repayments. 
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown and did Bamboo make  a fair 
lending decision?  
So, with this financial background  for Mr E in mind, Ive thought very carefully about the 
lending decision Bamboo made to offer him the loan, and the impact on him of it providing 
him with this additional  credit. And Ive thought about the information Bamboo  did have and 
what other reasonable and proportionate checks  might have shown. 
I do have concerns about the lack of borrower focussed checks  that Bamboo  carried out in 
respect of Mr Es expenditure. But I am satisfied that it did carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks in respect of his income, as it did ask for copies of his payslips which I 
think was sufficient in this case.  
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr E and his representative  have  said in support of the 
complaint thats  been made.  Mr E has provided  a copy of his credit report which  was carried 
out in February  2019. This shows that Mr E had a county court judgement in June 2017. It 
also shows details of closed accounts  where he had not made payments and had defaulted 
on loans.
When Bamboo carried out its checks, it carried out a credit  search  on Mr E and it supplied a 
copy of the report  it obtained in October 2018 as part of its file. This report records  that Mr E 
had no defaults  in the previous 12 months and one in the previous 36 months.  It recorded no 
active or satisfied judgements. 
There seems  to me to be a discrepancy between what is contained in the credit report 
obtained by Bamboo at the time the loan was provided, and the credit report subsequently  
obtained by Mr E in 2019. 
I understand the concerns  expressed by Mr E and his representative. I dont know why there 
is different information  recorded in the credit report obtained by Mr E and the one carried  out 
by Bamboo. But I am satisfied Bamboo  carried out a credit search. And I think  it wasnt 
unreasonable in the circumstances, for it to have relied on the information contained in that 
Ref: DRN88059234report, notwithstanding the discrepancies that there  appear to be with the credit report Mr E 
has obtained. 
As Ive summarised above, I do have concerns about the checks carried  out by Bamboo in 
respect of Mr Es expenditure. The difficulty I have is ascertaining  whether reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have made a difference to any affordability assessment in 
relation to this loan.  This is because Mr E hasnt been able to provide the information  
requested by our investigator.  
As a result, Ive had to make my assessment about the affordability of the loan, taking into 
account the information I do have.  And having  done so, I simply dont have enough 
information in this particular case,  to say that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr E. I say this 
because he does appear to have had a verified  income of approximately  £1,700  a month.  
And the credit report obtained by Bamboo  doesnt necessarily suggest to me that Mr E 
would be unable to sustainably repay  this loan. It seems to me that whilst he had some 
financial problems in the past, Mr E appears to have been managing his existing credit  
payments. 
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I havent seen  enough evidence  to say that the loan 
wasnt affordable for Mr E. So, Im unable to say it was wrong for Bamboo to provide  him 
with the loan, or that it acted unfairly  towards him in some other way.
my final decision
My final decision is not to uphold Mr Es complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8805923