K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy with their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. The mortgage was taken jointly and the policy covered Mr R if he was unable to 
work through  accident, sickness or redundancy.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider  it, but because I dont think  I need  to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I explain why below.
Halifax told us that the mortgage and PPI policy were sold in a meeting. Mr and Mrs R say 
the PPI was added without  their consent  and theyve provided evidence  of them not taking 
PPI on other  occasions.  
I must have regard for all the submissions made to me in a complaint. In this case Ive seen  
the declarations  Mr R signed as part of the application process. The section regarding  Total  
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) says that Halifax recommends  you consider our TMPP. 
And there is a signature box which can be filled in to take the cover which says Yes, We/I 
would like to take advantage of the TMPP.  The box has been signed by both Mr and Mrs R 
and the signature  is dated 12 July 2001.  This section is separate to the section in which Mr 
and Mrs R signed for the mortgage. And the language used  by Halifax  is of something being 
offered. So, overall,  I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs R aware that they had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it, even if they dont remember that now, many 
year later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI, so it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs R  
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because  Mr R was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Mr and Mrs R seem to have  had a need for 
the cover. Whilst Mr Rs sick pay was good initially, Mr R told us that it dropped  significantly 
after six months The PPI policy  wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mr R would have  
received and would have  covered him for up to 24 months if he was unable  to work because  
of accident or sickness, or if he lost his job. So I think Mr and Mrs R couldve  found  the PPI 
useful.
Ref: DRN88013242In saying that Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs R told us about the other means  they 
said they could  rely on at that time. But at the time of the sale it seems that for reasons of 
their own Mr and Mrs R had chosen to protect these other means  in that they hadnt  realised  
them and used  them  to reduce the mortgage  they were taking. The policy  would have further 
protected their other means in the event  that Mr R was too ill to work for an extended period 
of time and it would  have  provided some financial protection  to Mr R in the event he lost his 
job. 
So having  thought carefully about  everything  that Mr and Mrs R told us, and thinking  about 
the potentially  serious  consequences of defaulting  on a loan secured on your home, I think 
Mr and Mrs R could have found the policy useful if something went wrong. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs R.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs R, Halifax  also had to give them 
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think  the policy  was 
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  wouldve  stopped them from buying it. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said but these points dont  change  my 
decision.
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, who have put time and energy into 
their complaint, but I have looked  at all of the information available  to me and for the same 
reasons as given  by the adjudicator, and set out above, I dont think they have been  mis-sold 
PPI by Halifax. Which means  Halifax doesnt have to pay back  everything  Mr and Mrs R paid 
for it.
But Halifax  has already  offered  to give Mr and Mrs R back some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs R now Ive issued my final decision,  if it 
hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8801324