K822xcomplaint
Mr S, represented by his wife Mrs S, complained about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax. The bank sent letters saying it was going to enforce the existing possession order,  
and it also sent a field agent  to speak with Mr S. But Mr S says Halifax  had miscalculated the 
latest arrears situation, and shouldnt have sent the letters or the agent.
Mr S wants  £20,000 compensation. 
background 
Mr Ss mortgage was in arrears since 2015, and there had been  payment arrangements 
which he hadnt always been able to keep.  In June 2017 Halifax  obtained a court order for 
possession, and a payment  arrangement  was agreed in court.
On 1 August  2018, Halifax wrote to Mr S. It said that as he was aware,  Halifax had a 
possession order, and if the payment arrangement wasnt kept,  Halifax could enforce the 
order. It said that Mr S hadnt kept the payment arrangement and asked him to get in touch 
as soon as possible. If he didnt, Halifax could  instruct its solicitors  to enforce the order  and 
apply for eviction. 
Mr S didnt reply. So on 20 August, Halifax wrote again. It said:
We have been  unable to come to an agreement about a suitable way to repay your arrears  
and have asked  our solicitors to enforce  the Possession Order we have on your property. 
This means  we will apply for a date on which to repossess your property If your 
circumstances have  changed, and you are able to make a payment to clear your arrears  or 
bring your payment arrangement up to date, please  get in touch with us as soon as 
possible.
The letter also said that Halifax  had asked  an independent external field agent to visit, to 
discuss the current situation. It said This information will allow  us to understand if there is 
any help and support we can offer to avoid taking possession of your property. 
On 28 August, Mrs S rang Halifax. She said shed just been  diagnosed with an illness, and 
her husband  wasnt  well. Theyd been away on holiday from 12 August, and had returned to 
find lots of letters. Mrs S said they would be receiving an inheritance  and when they did, 
theyd be able to pay off their arrears.  The adviser  said theyd go through  the account 
systematically, and he started to look back at the history of the account, with the 
arrangements, court  order and payments received on the account. Mrs S asked if what  he 
was saying was he wasnt going to accept  anything? The advisor  said that wasnt what  he 
was saying, and hed need  to look up what the court order had been, and theyd go through  
everything. He said it would be a lengthy  conversation. Mrs S said she had someone coming 
to lunch in ten minutes. The adviser  gave  her the direct number and suggested she should 
ring back.  Mrs S said she hadnt expected  it to be a long conversation.  
The adviser explained that what Halifax would  need to do was to look for the court order  
amount to be brought up to date,  and then theyd go through income  and expenditure to 
make sure they could  afford any arrangement. Mrs S said that her recent unexpected 
medical diagnosis,  a fortnight ago, had come  as a shock and had been overwhelming.  The 
adviser explained that Halifaxs customer priority team might be able to help, and he said 
hed look at the figures after the call had ended, so they were  on the file when she rang 
Ref: DRN88942282back. The adviser said that the account was with the solicitors who were looking for an 
eviction order, so he urged Mrs S please  do ring back. Mrs S agreed  and the call ended  
amicably.
The next day, Mrs S rang again and was told that Halifax had made  a mistake about the 
level of arrears, and shouldnt have sent the enforcement letters  about the court order. A 
field agent also arrived, who hadnt  been cancelled. Mr and Mrs S complained.  They said:
-the court order shouldnt have been  enforced;
-the adviser on 28 August had been  rude;
-the field adviser hadnt been  cancelled;
-they hadnt had an apology.
Halifaxs final response letter said:
-it was sorry to hear of the health problems,  and was sorry if the complaint had caused 
extra upset at this time;
-one of its agents had miscalculated  the arrears,  so the bank had made  an error in 
enforcing the court order and booking a field adviser;
-it didnt agree the adviser on 28 August had been rude.  Hed tried to deal with the call in 
a non-judgemental, professional way, explaining the status  of the account  and what the 
bank needed.
Halifax sent a cheque for £300 because of its error  in miscalculating the arrears, which had 
led to enforcing the order and sending a field advisor.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service, represented by Mrs S. Mrs S explained  
what had happened  and said they want £20,000 compensation.
The adjudicator partly upheld the complaint:
-She listened to the phone call recording when Mrs S had spoken  to Halifax on 
28 August. She thought the adviser  could  have been  more  empathetic  about Mrs Ss 
circumstances, but said he hadnt been rude to Mrs S. And he had offered to spend time 
with Mrs S, to help sort the situation  out. 
-The adjudicator  thought that £300 for the inconvenience caused was fair.
-She checked with Halifax about the litigation fees for £352.60 which  had been debited  to 
Mr Ss mortgage. The bank refunded this, and adjusted the interest on that debit. And 
after the adjudicators involvement, Halifax agreed to offer Mr S £100 compensation for 
the extra inconvenience caused by the litigation fees being added to the mortgage.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied. He said:
-they had ignored  Halifaxs  1 August letter because theyd just set up a payment 
arrangement. Mr S said this showed  that Halifax made a mistake and it had had plenty of 
opportunity to have  got in touch before Mr S replied to the banks letters  on 28 August;
-Halifax hadnt been proactive about  anything and Mr S had always  had to phone  them.  
Nor had the bank  sent a letter of apology;
-they were suffering  from added stress having to justify why they should get a more  
reasonable amount of compensation, especially as Mr S already suffered from a stress-
induced illness;
Ref: DRN88942283-they had prevented Halifax from being in all kinds of trouble by flagging up their 
mistakes and preventing them from evicting us. Surely they should be over the moon  
about this rather  than it is all our fault. 
-Mr S said he hadnt asked for his illness and no-one cared or recognised that it was his 
and his wifes proactiveness which had prevented Halifax  evicting  them. They were 
afraid Halifax would do this again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr S has ongoing health problems, and Im sorry  to hear about Mrs Ss 
diagnosis in summer 2018.
Miscalculating arrears balance 
Mr S had a payment  arrangement  to pay £430 a month. He made a payment on 7 June, but 
defaulted on that arrangement by not making  any payment in July. 
As a result of Mr S breaking  the payment arrangement,  Halifax  reviewed Mr Ss account. 
The bank was entitled to conduct  this review after this breach, and to send the 1 August 
letter which warned that, as Mr S hadnt  kept the terms of the payment arrangement, the 
bank had the power to enforce the possession order that was already  on the account.
But Mr S didnt get in touch with Halifax when he received the 1 August letter.  And not 
hearing from Mr S was what triggered Halifax looking  again at the current arrears position on 
20 August. Halifaxs employee  made a mistake  because when they carried  out this next-
stage review, they miscalculated the current arrears position. This set in motion the process 
to enforce the existing possession order. That led to the 20 August letter,  and the field agent  
and court bailiff bookings. But Mr and Mrs S had gone on holiday on 12 August and didnt 
receive the 20 August letters about enforcement and eviction until they got back on 28 
August. 
Mr S has argued that they decided to ignore the 1 August letter because theyd agreed an 
arrangement. But this wasnt a wise course  of action. They hadnt made a payment in July. 
And the letter is very clear about the urgency, and the fact that Halifax could now enforce the 
possession order and obtain eviction. It was Mr Ss responsibility to get in touch with Halifax 
very promptly when he got that letter, to sort things out, and I find there  should  have been 
time before they went on holiday on 12 August. I recognise that both Mr S and his wife had 
health issues, but they havent said, or provided  medical evidence  to show,  they were  too 
unwell to get in touch  with Halifax before their holiday.
Ive considered how much compensation would  be fair and reasonable for Halifax to pay to 
Mr S for its miscalculation of the arrears.  In doing  so, Ive taken into account  the fact that 
Mr S had ongoing medical problems and a difficult family situation. I should  explain that we 
can only tell a bank  to pay compensation to its customer, not to a third party. As Mrs S isnt a 
party to the mortgage, I dont have  the power to take her distress into account   except to 
the very limited extent  that her distress would have upset the banks customer  Mr S. I note 
that Halifax increased its compensation from £200  to £300 because  of Mr Ss circumstances, 
meaning it would have had a greater  impact on him than on other  people.  
Ref: DRN88942284Ive also had to take into account  the fact that Mr S didnt reply to Halifaxs  warning letter of 
1 August within a reasonable  period of time. This was clearly  an important and serious letter,  
resulting from the fact that the bank hadnt received a payment since 28 June. I do 
understand that Mr S had a difficult situation  at home, and receiving such letters  is stressful. 
But it was not replying to Halifaxs  1 August letter which led to the mortgage being looked at 
for enforcement later in August. Its a borrowers  responsibility to manage whats  going on 
with the mortgage. 
Taking everything into account,  I find that £300 compensation was fair and reasonable for 
Halifaxs mistake  in miscalculating the level of the arrears on Mr Ss account on 20 August. 
I recognise that Mr S says hes concerned the same problem might  happen  again.  Initially,  I 
would say that if Mr S sticks to the payment arrangements  he has made  and communicates 
with Halifax if he thinks there might be a problem  with him doing  so, this situation  shouldnt 
be repeated. However, the problem once the payment arrangement was broken was down  
to human error. Given  that, lessons will have been  learned and there is less chance of such 
an error occurring again,  but unfortunately, there  can be no guarantee, given humans do 
make mistakes at times. 
Phone call on 28 August
Ive listened to the phone call on 28 August when Mrs S rang Halifax about  Mr Ss mortgage.  
Ive set out what was said in detail above.
I dont find that Halifaxs  adviser was rude during this call. I consider the real problem with 
this phone call was that the two people involved had a different idea of what they expected 
from it. Halifaxs adviser expected to look at the mortgage in detail, including  the arrears 
history and broken  arrangements, going on to look at the figures  in the court order, and then 
working out what payment arrangement might be possible to make sure things  were  
affordable in future. Mrs S expected  a short call, wanting a quick response to her saying that 
shed be able to make a payment shortly, and that they were  also expecting  an inheritance in 
a few weeks time. She said she had someone  coming to lunch in ten minutes.
I dont uphold the complaint that Halifaxs adviser was rude. He was professional and calm,  
and its clear he wanted to look at the mortgage fully, to get to the bottom  of the figures  and 
set up something which  would fit Mr Ss income and expenditure. He did urge Mrs S to ring 
again, saying  that it was important because the mortgage was already with the solicitors for 
eviction. I think it was reasonable  to say this, and he did so in a pleasant and non-aggressive 
way. I also note that the call ended amicably,  and it was only later that Mrs S complained 
about the adviser. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Litigation costs
Halifax debited £352.60 in litigation costs for the fees it incurred when sending Mr Ss 
mortgage for enforcement. Halifax has refunded this, together with the associated interest. 
After this service became  involved, the bank also agreed to pay Mr S a further £100 
compensation. I find this is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Ref: DRN88942285-I find that Halifaxs payment of £300  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused to Mr S by its arrears miscalculation  was fair and reasonable.
-I do not uphold  the complaint that Halifaxs adviser on 28 August  2018 was rude.
-I order Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to pay Mr S £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by debiting £352.60 litigation fee to his account. The 
bank has already refunded the fee and associated interest.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8894228