K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that American Express Services Europe Limited suspended, reviewed and 
then closed his card accounts.  
 
background
In April 2018 Mr R tried to use his American  Express card but it was declined. It told him his 
card accounts had been suspended and it required some more  information from him about 
his finances. Mr R provided the information  and after a review  American  Express then closed 
his accounts.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
American Express dealt with Mr R appropriately on the phone. And after he provided 
the information requested it took a reasonable time reviewing matters. 
The terms and conditions of the accounts say American Express  may cancel or 
suspend them temporarily or permanently. And that it will notify Mr R beforehand or 
immediately afterwards and it may give a reason. 
Here the cards were  suspended and subsequently cancelled in line with these terms 
and conditions. American Express wasnt obliged  to give Mr R any advance  warning 
of what it planned to do. It also said in the phone calls that it decided  to close Mr Rs 
accounts after reviewing  them  following  recent activity on them.  Even so it gave him 
the opportunity,  which he accepted,  to transfer the points hed accumulated  on them  
onto another of his accounts.  It also paid him the accumulated  cashback  amount  as a 
goodwill gesture.
American Express hasnt done  anything wrong.
Mr R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
American Express is entitled to decide for itself which customers it wishes  to provide a 
service to. Here it says decided to conduct  a credit  review on Mr Rs two accounts and 
asked him for more  information. Its said that as part of the review it considered this 
information, his external  credit file and his spending  behaviour which it viewed as high risk. 
As a result it decided, as it was entitled  to do, to close his accounts.
I agree  with the investigator that in doing so American Express  has acted in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions. They allow it to suspend or terminate  his account without 
advance notice or giving a reason.
I also think American Express acted fairly  by allowing Mr R to transfer  his accumulated  
points onto another card and by paying him the cashback amount even though that is 
Ref: DRN83759782normally only paid back at the end of the year. I also think  American Express customer  
service was acceptable and its review  was carried out in a reasonable time.
I understand Mr Rs frustration but I dont think American Express  has done  anything wrong. 
And I dont  think I can fairly  or reasonably ask it to do any more  than its already done, 
including paying  Mr R compensation  or amending his credit  file as hed like.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8375978