K820x#14complaint
Mrs B and Mr M complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)  handled 
their claim on their home  insurance following an escape of water.
background
Mrs B and Mr M had a home insurance  policy with RSA.  In May 2018 they made a claim on 
the policy following  an escape of water at their home. Repair work started in October that 
year. Most of the repairs were to the kitchen  as this is where the majority of the damage 
was.
Once the works were completed by RSAs contractors there were a number of things  that 
Mrs B and Mr M were unhappy with. This included  the quality of finish  of the work done to a 
number of areas in the kitchen and the work  carried out on the lounge  wall and floor.  They 
also felt they had been bullied and intimidated by some of RSAs contractors while theyd 
been in their home. Mrs B and Mr M complained to RSA.
RSA addressed each  of Mrs B and Mr Ms concerns about  the work.  It agreed that the floor 
and wall in the lounge needed  further attention. However it said in light of the fact 
Mrs B and Mr M had said they wouldnt allow RSAs  contractors back  into their home, it 
offered a cash settlement. RSA offered a total of £1284.65. This included  cash  settlement for 
the works  in the lounge, electricity usage and around £400 compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused.
Mrs B and Mr M didnt agree with RSAs response. They said their kitchen had been  left in a 
worse condition than before  the damage  and the money provided wasnt  enough to get the 
work done. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint was upheld.  
She said that from the photos she had seen  the condition of the kitchen was similar to how it 
was before the leak. And RSA were  only required under the policy to cash settle at the 
amount it would cost it to get the work  completed.
Mrs B and Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. They said they are now unable to remove 
their washing  machine due to the skirting board and they wouldnt  be able to rectify the 
problems in the lounge with the money  provided.  They asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B and Mr M have raised  a number of issues with the work thats been completed by 
RSAs contractors. Although I havent addressed every point, I want to assure  them that I 
have considered everything  as part of my decision. I have addressed the pertinent issues  
below in turn.
repair work in the kitchen
Ref: DRN84012872I understand there are a number of elements of the repair  work  carried out in the kitchen that 
Mrs B and Mr M are unhappy with. I have been  provided with a large  number of photos from 
both them and RSA.  These show the kitchen before and after the work was carried  out. 
When carrying out repair work following damage, RSA need  to ensure it puts the 
policyholder back  into the position  they were  in before the event. Having examined the 
photos, I cant see that there is a significant  difference between how the kitchen was and is 
now. So I think RSA has fulfilled this obligation  under the policy.
I can see there is a very small gap between the end panel and the floor, but Mrs B has said 
this is about 1mm. From  looking at the photos provided I dont think this is significant enough 
to affect the aesthetic of the kitchen or cause any problems,  so I dont think  it is 
unreasonable for RSA to have taken  no action to repair  this.
I can also see that the slightly protruding skirting board  would now make it a bit harder to 
remove the washing machine than it had been  before.  However  as  a washing machine isnt 
an appliance  that needs moving regularly I dont think it is necessary to make a change  to 
this work. I therefore agree that RSA have acted  fairly by not making further  alterations  here.
Finally having looked  at the worktop  and the trim, I dont agree that they have been  
completed to a poor standard. Although the trim has been applied in white  and painted 
black, the finish appears the same as it was previously. I therefore agree that RSA has 
completed this to a reasonable  standard.
I therefore think RSA has carried out the work  in the kitchen to a satisfactory  level.  And has 
treated Mrs B and Mr M fairly. So I wont ask them to do anything  further  or differently.
I understand that Mrs B and Mr M have  also raised problems with how the oven has been 
fitted. RSA has offered  to send its contractors to assess this in order  to offer a settlement. I 
cant say this is an unfair solution  as the damage would need to be assessed in order for a 
fair resolution to be reached.
damage to the lounge  wall and floor
From looking  at the photos provided  I agree that the walls and floor in the lounge  will require 
further work.  RSA has offered a cash  settlement  for this work.
Mrs B and Mr M have said they dont  want RSAs contractors to return  to their home. I can 
understand why they feel this way, as they dont feel the work has been  of a good  standard.  I 
therefore agree that a cash settlement is the best option. In the policy  it says that if RSA 
choose to cash  settle,  it will pay the amount it would cost it to do the work. And I havent 
seen any evidence to say RSA couldnt get the work  done for that amount. I therefore think 
the amount offered by RSA is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
bullying and intimidation
Mrs B said she felt bullied and intimidated  by RSAs contractors when they attended  her 
home while discussing the work. I have no reason to doubt that this was the case and 
appreciate how distressing this would have been.  
RSA has investigated  this and provided feedback  to the line managers  of the relevant staff. It 
has also offered around £400 as part of the settlement for the distress and inconvenience 
Ref: DRN84012873that has been caused throughout  the claim. I cant see that it could do anything further in the 
circumstances.
putting things right
I understand this claim has caused Mrs B and Mr M significant distress  and inconvenience. 
There have been  occasions where  work  hasnt  been done to a high standard and has been 
rectified or a cash settlement offered. This has caused the claim to take a bit longer to be 
settled. Further Mrs B has felt intimidated  in her home which  would be very distressing.
Having assessed  how RSA has handled  the claim,  and the work carried  out by its 
contractors, I think  it has acted  fairly and reasonably.  Where  work hasnt been done to a 
good standard it has been assessed and rectified  or a cash  settlement offered.  Further RSA 
has offered around  £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused Mrs 
B and Mr M throughout the claim.  This is in line with what I would have recommended  in 
these circumstances.  I therefore agree with RSAs £1284.65 settlement offer and require it to 
pay this if it hasnt already. But I wont require it to do anything further or differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay 
Mrs B and Mr M the settlement of £1284.65  as previously offered, if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8401287