K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the length of time taken by Sainsburys Bank  Plc to 
offer them an appointment with a mortgage  adviser.  They say that as a result of the delay, 
they had no option but to look for a mortgage with another  lender, incurring expense and an 
early repayment charge  (ERC) which they are asking Sainsburys to reimburse.
background
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage  with Sainsburys taken out in January 2018. The mortgage 
was on a fixed rate of 1.69% until 31 December  2022. If the mortgage was repaid before that 
date an ERC  would apply. The interest  rate product  was portable, meaning that it could be 
transferred onto a mortgage on another property, subject to Sainsburys lending criteria,  in 
which case no ERC would be payable.
On 26 January 2019 Mr and Mrs H contacted Sainsburys because they were  in the process  
of moving house.  Theyd found  a buyer  for their home and a house they wanted to purchase. 
They needed to borrow more money  and so this initial  discussion  with Sainsburys was to 
see if they could  do that and port their existing mortgage product. 
Because they wanted to borrow  more  money,  Mr and Mrs H needed  to have an appointment 
with a mortgage adviser. They were  told the earliest  appointment was on 5 March 2019. 
Dissatisfied with this, Mr and Mrs H complained. In its final response letter dated 7 February  
2019, Sainsburys said it had added them to the cancellation list, and so could see them on 
22 February 2019. Regrettably, this appointment then had to be cancelled due to sickness 
but was rearranged for 28 February 2019.
But on 4 February  2019 Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage illustration from another  lender and a 
mortgage offer was issued on 14 February 2019. Mr and Mrs H completed their sale and 
purchase on 18 March  2019. As a result, they had to pay an ERC of about £4,000.
They want  Sainsburys to reimburse the ERC as well as additional legal expenses they say 
they incurred by having to use a solicitor that was on Sainsburys  panel, and the extra 
interest they are now paying to their new lender.
Sainsburys didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr and Mrs H complained to us. An investigator 
looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. They say that theyve provided us with 
statements from local mortgage brokers who told them that the timescale Sainsburys 
provided was not fair. Their buyer and seller werent  prepared to wait and so they had no 
option but to go with another  lender.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
First, I dont have any power  to tell Sainsburys how to run its business. The number of 
mortgage advisers it employs  and the way they schedule their appointments are matters  that 
are outside  my remit. 
Ref: DRN88098232Ive looked at the timescale and I see that, when Mr and Mrs H complained  at the beginning 
of February 2019,  they were offered an appointment on 22 February which  (for legitimate 
reasons) had to be rescheduled  for 28 February 2019. But Mr and Mrs H had already been 
given a mortgage offer by another lender on 14 February 2019 and exchanged contracts on 
their purchase shortly after that. Given this, Im satisfied it was their choice to proceed with 
another lender, without giving Sainsburys the opportunity to consider their application.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to order  Sainsburys 
to reimburse the ERC or any of the other expenses claimed by Mr and Mrs H.
my final decision
I understand Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed,  but my decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2020.  
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8809823