K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc was unable to explain why money  was debited 
from her account, leaving her concerned that she had been a victim of fraud.
background
On 15 August 2018, £100 was credited and then debited from Miss Bs HSBC account.  She 
called the bank on 29 August to ask about  the debit,  as she couldnt identify the transaction.  
HSBC was unable  to explain why this had happened  and said it would investigate.  
Miss B called again on 12 September. HSBC checked its system. It saw that that £100  had 
been credited  and then debited from Miss Bs account because of an error by one of its staff. 
Miss B was due £100 compensation from HSBC for an earlier  complaint. The staff member 
processing the compensation payment had mistakenly entered  Miss Bs account details 
twice, rather than one of HSBCs own accounts for the debit transaction.  So rather  than 
HSBCs own account being debited and Miss Bs credited, the money had come in and out 
of her own account. HSBC apologised, said it would re-credit the £100  and offered her a 
further £50 for her distress.  It confirmed this in a letter.
Miss B brought her complaint to us. She wanted  a proper explanation and more 
compensation. She didnt think the £50 offered  was enough to recognise  the stress the 
situation caused her. Shed been  a victim  of fraud the previous year, and was concerned that 
it had happened  again.
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  needed to do anything further. He explained that her 
account details  had been entered into both the to and from fields mistakenly  when HSBC  
was trying to pay her £100 for an earlier complaint. He could see that shed received the 
£100 on 12 September, so shed received the compensation for the earlier  complaint. He 
acknowledged that Miss B was concerned that fraud  mayve  happened because of the lack 
of an explanation, but he thought that mistakes do happen. He thought  HSBCs offer of £50 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Miss B asked for a decision from an ombudsman. She felt shed been  lied to by HSBC.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Miss B genuinely  feels  that 
£50 compensation  isnt enough for the upset caused to her. But Im afraid Ill have to 
disappoint her, as Im not going to ask HSBC  to do anything more that what theyve  already  
offered. 
Its unfortunate that the HSBC representative  wasnt able to offer Miss B an explanation  
when she called the bank in August. And given Miss B had been a victim of fraud  previously, 
I can see this caused her additional concern. 
But HSBC  was able to offer an explanation  by 12 September. And in my view, the 
explanation offered by HSBC makes sense.  Human error does occur, and is almost  
impossible to prevent.  In this case, Miss B hasnt  lost out financially from the error, as HSBC 
did pay the £100 to her on 12 September.
Ref: DRN87548092Im not sure why Miss B thinks HSBC  lied to her. I havent seen anything to support  that, 
although I appreciate that HSBC staff being unable to identify the source of the problem 
mustve been very frustrating. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think the £50 offered by HSBC was fair. I know this will 
disappoint Miss B, and Im sorry for that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc must pay Miss B £50 for her distress. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8754809