K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
October 1999. Mr and Mrs B say Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say that as Mr B was presented with a PPI application form that 
was separate  to the mortgage application. And in the section where  Mr B signed, it 
said:I am at present in work  (i.e. at least 16 hours per week). I wish to apply for 
cover under  the mortgage repayment  insurance scheme   
The adjudicator  said that BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. However, 
even if it did recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, I think  the PPI was right for them  - 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. For example they werent 
affected by any of the exclusions  to, or limits  on, the PPI cover. And having 
considered Mr Bs employers sick pay policy, the PPI couldve  still been of use to Mr 
and Mrs B in covering  their mortgage repayments for up to 24 months,  if Mr B was 
unable to work for a prolonged period of time due to sickness or unemployment.   
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they, at least 
initially, wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said - including  that they thought they were  
completing the application form to only find out if they were eligible for cover. However  I think 
the form made it clear  that it was an application form, rather  than a fact finding form. And I 
think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs B wouldve completed an insurance application form had 
insurance not been discussed with them beforehand. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs B cancelled the policy not that long after taking  it out. However, 
I think this shows Mr and Mrs B were aware that it was an optional  product that could  be 
cancelled and that having paid for the PPI for a while, they were  happy to continue  without 
having mortgage repayment cover  in place. But just because they later decided that the 
cover wasnt  necessary doesnt, based  on what Ive seen in this case, make  me think BoS 
was wrong to have  sold it to them  in the first place.
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give back to Mr and Mrs B some of the 
commission they paid,  as Mr and Mrs B say its unfair that BoS wont refund them the 
commission they paid on the PPI.
Ref: DRN83736512In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
BoS has given  me information that shows Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was taken out in April 
1987 and ended in January 2005.  So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here.
So BoS doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI they 
had with their mortgage.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8373651