K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that MCIFA  Limited  mis-sold them  a term assurance  policy  for
Mrs B. They  were told that they needed  it in order to secure  their mortgage, but have since 
found out this wasnt  right.
background
In late 2009, Mr and Mrs B approached MCIFA  when they were in the process of buying a 
property. Theyd already  had a mortgage offer withdrawn  and they were  looking to borrow 
£975,000 on an interest-only basis over ten years. At that time only Mr B was working. 
Through MCIFA, they were offered a mortgage but they say that they were led to believe - 
through telephone calls with their adviser - that having life cover  was a condition  of this 
mortgage. 
They initially  applied for a level term assurance policy  for Mr B, but previous health problems 
meant he was turned  down for cover.  So they applied for a policy  in Mrs Bs sole name  
instead. The policy gave  cover that matched the mortgage for a monthly premium of 
£415.69.
In early 2018, Mr and Mrs B spoke  to their mortgage lender to ask whether the mortgage 
could continue without  the cover, and they were told it hadnt been dependent  on them  
having it, as theyd believed. Mr and Mrs B cancelled  the policy and complained  to MCIFA. 
They asked for a refund of the premiums theyd paid with interest.
the investigators opinion
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  MCIFA  wasnt 
able to provide  any recordings of the telephone calls Mr and Mrs B had referred  to but she 
felt the documentation they were given, such as the mortgage offer, made it clear the policy  
wasnt a condition of the mortgage.  The investigator  also thought the policy was suitable for 
Mrs B, as had she passed away during the ten year term, it wouldve helped  secure  Mr Bs 
future.
But Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept the investigators  findings. They  questioned  where  the 
documentation was to show the advice  they were given about the life cover.  They said theyd 
had life cover in the past when they had dependent children, but it wasnt  something they felt 
they needed for their circumstances in 2010.  They had an insurance broker  they couldve 
used if they had separately  wanted the life cover. They felt meeting the life cover costs 
caused them  unnecessary financial strain.
A second investigator reviewed the complaint and she didnt think  the policy  was suitable 
because it didnt provide adequate cover for both of them. She said that Mrs B wasnt 
contributing to the repayment of the mortgage  and Mr B was the sole earner. The 
investigator accepted  that they wouldnt have been  able to get joint life assurance  because 
of Mr Bs health. But she didnt think there was anything to suggest the mortgage application 
wouldve been rejected without the life policy. So the investigator said MCIFA should refund 
the premiums Mr and Mrs B paid on the policy together  with 8% simple  interest.
MCIFA didnt  accept the investigators findings and asked  for the complaint to be reviewed.  
In summary,  it said Mr and Mrs B had never been told life insurance was a mandatory 
Ref: DRN81354592requirement of the mortgage and this was clear from the documentation.  The policy gave a 
substantial potential benefit for Mr B if Mrs B had passed away,  giving  him financial 
protection. It said Mr and Mrs B clearly ought to have known that the policy wasnt  
conditional when  they received the mortgage  offer, so their complaint was brought  too late. 
MCIFA also disputed the interest the investigator suggested as disproportionate  and 
excessive.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January  2019.  I thought  it should  be 
upheld. 
There was no longer any available contemporaneous documentation relating  to the advice 
they received  about the policy to show why it was felt to be suitable for Mr and Mrs B. But, 
from the information given, I thought it was fair to say that they seemed to have been in a 
difficult position  their property purchase  was already going through  when they lost their first 
mortgage offer; they were then turned down  by a different lender, and another  looked to be 
considering offering less favourable terms before they were  offered the mortgage they 
eventually took out.
They applied for life cover for Mr B and I could see from the information provided that he 
gave a detailed  description of the health  problems  hed had in past years and approached a 
specialist to give the insurer written confirmation  of their opinion  that these wouldnt affect his 
life in the ten year period.  This suggested  to me that it was only because Mr Bs life cover  
application was turned down that cover  was applied for in Mrs Bs name.
I acknowledged that the mortgage offer didnt include  having life cover  as a condition.  And 
the underwriting questionnaire Mrs B signed  had a question which said Is the loan 
conditional upon the issue of this policy? which is answered no. But I thought  that the 
emails about this suggested this had been  pre-completed by the adviser and just needed her 
signature. 
I was persuaded  by what Mr and Mrs B told us about the reasons they went  ahead with 
Mrs B having the life cover,  in that they believed it was needed to secure  the mortgage. This 
was because they had no other financial dependents and Mr B was the sole earner.  Mrs B 
managed the home while Mr B was at work,  but I didnt think this alone showed that they had 
a need for her to have life cover, particularly  if it caused a stretch  to their finances. Their  
intention was always to sell the home  at the end of the mortgage  period to repay their 
borrowing and downsize. They didnt  have an alternative repayment  vehicle  for their interest-
only mortgage, so it seemed  that this was unlikely to change if either of them had passed 
away.
Overall, and on balance,  it seemed to me that it was likely Mr and Mrs B were  led to believe 
they needed to have  some form of life cover  in place and this is why, despite being  unable to 
get joint life cover, they took it out in Mrs Bs name  only, so that the mortgage would go 
ahead and they could limit any risk of the property purchase falling through.
In Mr and Mrs Bs particular circumstances, I thought if they had known they didnt have to 
have a form of life cover for this mortgage to go ahead, then they wouldnt have taken it out. 
Mrs B wasnt  working and there doesnt seem  to be any indication this would be changing. 
The mortgage costs  were to be paid from Mr Bs income alone. So I wasnt  persuaded that 
they had a need to protect Mr Bs ability to carry on this way if Mrs B had passed away.
Ref: DRN81354593My provision  decision was that MCIFA  should refund the premiums Mr and Mrs B paid 
together with interest at a rate of 8% simple from the date each premium  was paid until the 
date of settlement.  The 8% simple interest rate is the rate generally used by the courts and 
reflects that it is paid gross;  applies  to historic losses and takes account of current interest  
rates on borrowing, which  can be higher  than savings  rates.
the responses
Mr and Mrs B agreed with my provisional findings. They said the adviser had given them  a 
definite sense  of urgency for the life cover  to be put in place.
MCIFA didnt  accept my provisional  findings. In summary,  it disagreed with the background 
section where Id referred to telephone calls with the adviser leading  Mr and Mrs B to believe 
life cover was a condition  of the mortgage, and said there was no evidence  of this. It 
provided a witness  statement from the adviser  which says that no such advice was provided.
MCIFA said that it couldnt  be held liable if Mr and Mrs B had mis-understood  the mortgage 
provisions, and questioned why they didnt see if they could reduce the payments they were 
making if they were  a struggle  to maintain. It said it understands Mr and Mrs B were  in a 
difficult position when  they instructed it to assist  in recommending a suitable mortgage 
facility. However, it thinks the fact that they were turned down  by other lenders prior to our 
advice is irrelevant to the issues of the complaint.
Id said it seemed it was only because life insurance couldnt be obtained  for Mr B that an 
application was made for Mrs B. But it said this didnt mean there was no benefit  for her 
having her own cover.  It said Id failed to consider the insurance requirements being clarified 
in the mortgage offer, and said there was no documentary evidence  to support Mr and Mrs 
Bs complaint. It said that, by not reviewing or considering the mortgage offer they had 
directly caused the losses alleged. It didnt agree that the financial questionnaire completed 
and signed by Mrs B possibly being  completed  by the adviser was relevant. 
It said Mrs B signed a declaration which said she wasnt under any obligation to take up the 
recommendation, and that she understood it involved a regular financial commitment.  
It said the question  of whether the life insurance  policy provided Mr and Mrs B with any 
benefit was less relevant as they were fully informed and entered into the arrangement of 
their own accord. But it said that if Mrs B was diagnosed with a terminal  illness  under  the 
definition of the policy, it wouldve provided  a substantial payment towards medical costs, 
allowing Mr B to reduce  his working  hours or retire  to care for her. Or, if Mrs. B had died 
during the term of the policy, it wouldve provided  a substantial payment  to assist with 
associated expenses or repay any outstanding  mortgage. It thought  that any award should 
adequately account for the substantial  uncertainties  regarding the evidence  provided by Mr 
and Mrs B. 
MCIFA said it was preposterous to think that this was a fair and reasonable reason to 
reverse the decision when  no documentation was available because of the significant  delay 
in the bringing  of the complaint. 
I wrote  to MCIFA separately  about the jurisdictional points that it raised  throughout the 
course of this complaint. I acknowledge all it has said, and the strength of feeling expressed 
about this, however I set out my position and response and why I considered Mr and Mrs Bs 
Ref: DRN81354594complaint was one we could look into. With reluctance,  MCIFA accepted my stance  on these 
points.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I would firstly acknowledge  Mr and Mrs Bs interpretation of some of the messages sent by 
the adviser, particularly  that which sets out the standard requirement for cover in excess of 
£500,000. Having  read the whole  wording of this message, I understand this to relate  to the 
need for a financial questionnaire to be completed rather than life assurance itself being  a 
requirement. The cover  referred to is the amount of life cover rather  than the amount of 
mortgage commitment.
And from the message where it says Please explain  that as contracts  have exchanged, its 
vital that the cover be put on risk.. I take this to be referring  to exchange  of contracts  
being the point at which the commitment to buy the property is made and so, where life 
cover is being taken out in connection  with the property purchase,  this would be the point 
that I would normally  expect it to begin,  or be put on risk. I dont think these messages by 
themselves show what Mr and Mrs B were told about the need  to have a form of life cover.
There is limited  information from the time to show with any certainty what  was discussed,  or 
to demonstrate why it was recommended  as suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs  and 
circumstances. This lack of information isnt unusual where the point of advice  of the event  
complained about has happened  some time before  the actual complaint was raised. But it 
doesnt mean that the complaint is any less valid, or the complaint wouldnt be upheld  simply 
because the information is limited. In reaching  my findings Ive taken into account everything  
that both parties  have  said as well as considering wider  factors such  as the general 
background details,  Mr and Mrs Bs personal  situation and the timeline of events. 
And I accept  that there was documentation  that couldve  alerted  Mr and Mrs B at the time 
their mortgage was going though that life cover wasnt a requirement. The mortgage offer 
doesnt list it and says the only insurance required was buildings.  And I previously  referred to 
the indication  on the underwriting questionnaire that the loan wasnt conditional on issuing of 
the life policy.  
However, when Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Bs particular circumstances, I think  its likely  
that they were  reliant on what the adviser told them. As Ive already said, I think  they were  in 
a difficult position  having had a mortgage offer withdrawn, and then another  mortgage lender 
declined their application. MCIFAs adviser has recalled this specifically in his witness 
statement. So I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve wanted  to do what  they thought  or believed was 
needed to secure  this mortgage.
I can see from the emails theyve sent us that Mr B first looked  to get medical  opinion  of his 
health status for their original application in his name alone. This suggests to me that he 
thought it was important and needed  the involvement of his property agent, the lender and 
MCIFAs adviser to keep  everyone informed. 
Taking everything into account,  my findings remain that I dont think Mr and Mrs B wouldve 
taken out this life cover  for Mrs B if theyd properly understood  that the mortgage they 
needed could  be agreed without it. This doesnt  mean that I dont acknowledge that the life 
Ref: DRN81354595cover wouldve provided  Mr B and his family  with financial support at a difficult time if Mrs B 
had passed away  while the mortgage was in place. However, I dont  think it was a form of 
insurance they wouldve have agreed to at the time if theyd understood it to be an optional 
additional cost.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require MCIFA Limited to refund all premiums  
paid from start of Mrs Bs policy until the last premium was paid. Simple interest  of 8% per 
year should  be added to each premium  when each payment was made until settlement.
If MCIFA Limited decides that tax is payable on the interest, it should send a tax deduction 
certificate to Mrs B. She may then reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
MCIFA must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it Mr and 
Mrs B accept my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8135459