K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him an Ultimate 
Reward Current Account  (URCA) packaged  bank account in 2009. 
background
Mr Js account was opened as a fee-free  account in October 2008. It was upgraded to an 
URCA in December 2009, and downgraded to a fee-free account in August 2018.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr J didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that he shouldve changed his bank account back to a non-fee paying 
account many years  ago. But, due to the traumatic event he experienced in 2011 and the 
impact this has had on his life, his bank account was the furthest thing from his mind. He 
thought Halifax,  and this service,  wouldve  shown  some compassion for his circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Js complaint.
sale of the URCA
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr J was given a clear choice in taking this account.  
Having looked  through everything provided and having thought about what  both parties  have 
said, I am persuaded  that Mr J took out the account  knowing that he did not have to if he 
didnt want to. I say this because Mr J had already held a free account  for over a year so Im 
satisfied he would reasonably have been aware that free accounts were  an option for him. 
I cant be sure exactly what  Mr J was told at the time. At this point, it may help for me to 
explain that, when  the parties to a complaint disagree about what  happened and theres a 
lack of evidence  from the time, I have to think about what  I have  been  provided with, what 
I do know and the wider circumstances at the time. In other  words,  what  l have to do is 
decide what I think is likely to have  happened having weighed  up what  both Mr J and Halifax 
have been able to provide me with. My powers  as an ombudsman  are also limited to 
directing businesses to put things right where  that business has done something  wrong,  
which has caused a customer to lose out. So I cant direct compensation when a business  
hasnt actually done anything wrong, no matter how upsetting a customers circumstances.
I havent seen  evidence to show that Halifax recommended the account to Mr J, so it didnt 
have to make sure it was suitable for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr J got the 
information he needed to decide for himself  if it was right for him.
Mr J told us the main reason for taking  the account  was to take advantage of the fee free 
overdraft facility. This was around the time when Halifax introduced a daily £1 overdraft 
usage fee on its free current accounts. URCA account holders didnt need to pay this fee, as 
long as they kept to their individual agreed limit as well as the overall  URCA limit. So URCA 
holders did receive  better overdraft rates and Mr J wont  have been  misled if hed been told 
this.
Ref: DRN80189932I can see that in the month before he upgraded, Mr Js account was overdrawn.  When he 
upgraded to the URCA he was given a £250  overdraft facility.  So he wouldve benefitted 
from the URCA.
He also told us he was attracted  to the account because he was told he would receive £5 
each month  he credited  the account with at least £1,000. Whilst the nature of his work meant  
his income was erratic,  I can see that he did receive  the £5 monthly  benefit  for a number of 
months after the account was opened.  So, again, this benefit wasnt  unavailable to him.
The URCA came with other benefits including travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile 
phone insurance.  Mr J says he didnt need  any of these because his wife already had a 
URCA. But Mr J wouldve known this when he took the account and  as noted  above  his 
main reason  for taking the account  was the interest  free overdraft. I can see that Mr J did 
make use of the breakdown cover on eight occasions.
Im open  to the possibility Mr J wasnt told everything he needed to know  about all of the 
benefits the account came with, but I havent seen anything in his circumstances to suggest 
that he wouldve  been affected by any of the main  limitations or exclusions. So I dont think  
clearer information about the URCAs benefits wouldve changed Mr Js decision  and he 
received enough to know and understand what it was he was agreeing to.
removal of overdraft facility
In January 2011 Halifax wrote to Mr J to tell him it was removing the overdraft facility  from 
the account. Around the same time, Mr Js life unexpectedly changed  and his income  was 
reduced. He continued to be charged  for the account but he could no longer take advantage  
of the two benefits that he says attracted him to the account in the first place.
Mr J mustve realised  the overdraft facility had been removed because in 2013 I can see he 
contacted the bank  to dispute a transaction which had resulted in overdraft  fees being 
charged.
I completely understand why  because  of what was going  on in his life  Mr J had forgotten 
he was paying  a monthly fee for his account. And why it wasnt  until 2018, when Halifax  
wrote to tell him about an increase in the monthly fee, that Mr J realised he was being 
charged and decided to downgrade his account.  I do have every sympathy with Mr J. But 
Halifax wasnt under  any obligation to ensure that Mr Js account remained  appropriate  for 
him, and the fact that Mr J was unable to deal with downgrading this account  is entirely  
understandable  but not Halifaxs  fault. It wasnt made aware of Mr Js personal 
circumstances until 2018 and the conduct  of his account wouldnt have  alerted  it to the 
financial difficulties that Mr J says he was experiencing. And for that reason, Im sorry, but I 
cant order Halifax to refund any of its fees.
Ref: DRN80189933my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8018993