K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that a foreign exchange draft they bought from Northern Bank  
Limited (trading as Danske Bank) cost more than they were expecting.
background
Mr and Mrs M ordered a foreign exchange  draft from Danske Bank and were  told it would 
cost £14. But the amount they paid was about £550 more  than this. Mr and Mrs M say 
Danske Bank didnt clarify its exchange  rate before they bought  the draft.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Danske Bank had used the correct exchange  rate for buying the currency in question, and 
that Mr and Mrs M hadnt been overcharged. 
She thought  it was possible  that Mr and Mrs M had used the banks exchange rate for selling 
the currency to work out how much they would pay.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with the investigators  conclusions, so the complaint has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M wanted to buy 12,170 euros.  From  what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that Danske 
Banks exchange rate for buying the currency  on the day in question was 1.0959  euros per 
£1. So it would cost Mr and Mrs M £11,105.02 to buy the amount of euros they wanted,  plus 
the £14 transaction fee. 
That is the amount  that Danske Bank charged Mr and Mrs M. Im satisfied that this was 
correct.
The bank exchange rate for selling euros on the day in question was 1.151  euros  per £1. Mr 
and Mrs M have provided a screenshot that suggests this may have been the exchange  rate 
they used to work out what they were likely to pay. 
On this basis, I can see they wouldve expected to pay £10,573.41.
But as Ive already said,  Im satisfied that Danske  Bank used the correct exchange rate for 
buying euros. So there are no reasonable grounds  on which  I can uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
Ref: DRN87655732ombudsman
Ref: DRN8765573