K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1999. The policy covered Mr S1 only.  Mr S1 and the estates  of Mr S2 and Mrs S 
say Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them the PPI.
background
I sent Mr S1 and the estates of Mr S2 and Mrs S and Halifax  a provisional  decision on 
20 February 2019 to explain why I wasnt  intending  to uphold the complaint. An extract from 
my provisional decision is set out below:
When selling the PPI, Halifax had to make it clear to Mr S1, Mr S2 and Mrs S that they had 
a choice about it. Mr S1 says they felt they had to have the PPI. But he hasnt given much 
more detail about what was said or why they felt this.
Halifax has sent us a copy of the application form for Mr S1, Mr S2 and Mrs Ss mortgage. 
This included a section  on PPI, with a space for them to sign if they wanted to take it out. 
And Mr S1 and Mr S2 have signed in the space.
Halifax has also sent us a copy of a separate  PPI application form which  says that Mr S1 is 
to be covered and has been signed by Mr S1 and Mr S2 to say they wish to apply for the 
PPI.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Halifax made  it clear  to Mr S1, Mr S2 and 
Mrs S that they had a choice about  the PPI. And that they chose to take it, knowing they 
didnt have to.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr S1, Mr S2 and Mrs S, so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for them. And, based  on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example, Mr S1 doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.
Mr S1 has said he was entitled  to significant sick pay from his employer so didnt need the 
PPI. But the policy couldve paid out for longer than his sick pay, and wouldve paid out in 
addition to it. So he couldve used his sick pay for other expenses,  rather  than the mortgage  
repayments. And the policy  wouldve  meant Mr S1, Mr S2 and Mrs S didnt need to rely on 
any savings they had to make  the mortgage  repayments if Mr S1 wasnt earning. So I still 
think it was right for them.
As well as checking it was right for them, Halifax had to give Mr S1, Mr S2 and Mrs S clear 
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment,  and Mr S1, Mr S2 and 
Mrs Ss property  couldve been at risk if theyd failed to make  their repayments. So I think 
they couldve found the protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same  reasons I 
think it was right for them, it seems like the PPI would have been  useful  for Mr S1, Mr S2 
and Mrs S if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking it out.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr S1 and the estates of Mr S2 and 
Mrs S some of the commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules  and 
guidance dont  apply to certain  types  of mortgage agreement  including  a regulated  
Ref: DRN84587372mortgage. As Mr S1, Mr S2 and Mrs Ss mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 
6 April 2008, they dont apply. So Halifax doesnt  need to refund any of the commission 
Mr S1, Mr S2 and Mrs S paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
I said Id consider any further information  Mr S1 and the estates of Mr S2 and Mrs S and 
Halifax sent me.
Halifax hasnt sent in anything further.  Mr S1 responded saying he still felt the PPI was mis-
sold as he didnt need it.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments, including what Mr S1 said in 
response to my provisional  decision, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S1 and the late Mr S2 and Mrs Ss case.
While Mr S1 has said he didnt  need the PPI, I explained in my provisional decision why I felt 
the PPI was right for Mr S1, Mr S2 and Mrs S at the time of the sale and I didnt think  better 
information about it would have put them off taking the PPI out. Mr S1 hasnt made  any 
specific arguments in response to what  I said,  and so I still feel my conclusions  here were  
correct.
Neither Halifax or Mr S1 and the estates of Mr S2 and Mrs S made any further  arguments  in 
relation to the rest of what I set out in my provisional decision, and so I still feel the rest of 
my conclusions are correct too, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr S1 and the estates of Mr S2 and Mrs Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S1 and the 
estates of Mr S2 and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.  
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8458737