K822xcomplaint
Miss K complain s about how Zenith Insura nce plc dealt with a claim against her 
motor insurance  policy.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 12 June 2020, an 
extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I wont repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that Zenith hadnt treated Miss K fairly. 
Miss K had told Zenith  that she wanted  to know if it received a claim and put it on notice that 
any claim may be exaggerated. So, I said that Zenith should have not only notified  Miss K 
when it received the claim but also done more to investigate it. I said that Zenith  should  pay 
Miss K additional compensation of £225  in relation to her distress and inconvenience.    
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss K responded to say that theres not much  more she can add. She said that shed sent 
photographs showing  the result of her cars  impact  on the other drivers rear passenger door 
but Zenith had paid a fraudulent claim.  Miss K said that the amount Zenith paid will have an 
impact on future insurance. She asked why Zenith  doesnt have the assessors report. 
Zenith didnt agree with my provisional decision.  It said that its unlikely that CCTV footage 
would have been available. 
Zenith accepts that it didnt tell Miss K that it had received a claim. It said that, in the protocol 
it was using, as long as the circumstances match, it wouldnt have made any investigations. 
Zenith says that it should have set Miss Ks expectations better and explained  that in the 
circumstances here it would pay the claim.  It said the outcome for Miss K would have been 
the same, regardless of the amount it paid  there would still have been  a fault claim and a 
loss of no claims discount. 
Zenith said that compensation of £300  doesnt reflect  its error  and it remains  of the view that 
£75 is reasonable.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K says that the amount Zenith paid will have  an impact on her future premiums. Some  
insurers take into account the amount paid out on a previous  claim when deciding  how much  
to charge. But, for the reasons I set out in the provisional decision,  I cant now establish 
whether Zenith paid an exaggerated claim or not. 
Miss K asked why Zenith doesnt have a report of the damage. Zenith  has explained that 
under the protocol it operated, it doesnt  ask for documentary evidence, so it doesnt  have a 
report of the damage.  
Ref: DRN83178282I agree  with Zenith that its unlikely that CCTV footage would have been available.  In any 
event, for the reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision, I doubt that CCTV would have  
shown the extent of the damage. 
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think its more likely than not that Zenith would have paid 
the other drivers claim, at least in part, if it had looked at things more closely. 
Zenith says that the £75 it has already paid is fair but Im afraid  I dont agree. In the 
particular circumstances  here, Zenith settled a claim without investigation after Miss K had 
put it on notice  that it may be exaggerated. I think that Miss K suffered distress in 
discovering how Zenith had proceeded and lost the opportunity to challenge the claim. I 
remain of the view that further compensation of £225 is fair, bringing the total compensation 
to £300.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Miss Ks complaint. I 
now require Zenith  Insurance plc to pay Miss K compensation of an additional  £225  in 
relation to her distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83178283extract of provisional  decision
complain t
Miss K complain s about how Zenith Insuran ce plc dealt  with a claim against her motor  insurance 
policy.
background
In Septembe r 2018 , Miss K had an accident whilst driving. Miss K says that whilst she was making a 
manoeuv re in a garage forec ourt, the front, passenger door of her car opened and the door hand le of 
her car made contact with the rear, passenger  door of a parked car.
Miss K spoke  with the owner of the other car and agree d to pay for the damage. The owner of the 
other car asked Miss K for £250 for repairs to both doors and the side panel  of her car. Miss K 
thought that the other driver  was askin g for repair s to dama ge Miss K hadn t caused.  Miss K and the 
other driver  didnt come  to an agreement and the other driver made a claim against Miss Ks policy.
In Octob er 2018 , Miss K notified Zenith of the incide nt and asked it to inform her if a claim was 
made and not to settle it, as she disputed the exten t of the damage. Zenith wrote to Miss K noting 
that she had accepted fault for the incident and informing her that it will need to deal with any claim 
it receives from the other driver.
In Decemb er 2018 , Zenith received a claim from the other driver but it didnt contact Miss K. In 
February 2019, Miss K called Zenith and it told her that it had settle d the claim in December 2018  and 
paid £2,635 .96, which included £900 for a hire car and £60 for a claim s invest igator.
In response to Miss Ks compla int, Zenith said that it accepted liability for the accident and wrote to 
Miss K about that in Octo ber 2018 . But it said that it didnt contact Miss K when the other driver made  
a claim and it apologised for that. Zenith said that it didnt think the repair costs were excessive and, 
regardl ess of the amount it paid out. Miss Ks future premi ums would be affecte d, as there was a 
claim. It paid Miss K compensat ion of £75 in relation to the service shed recei ved.
Miss K didnt think that the compe nsati on was sufficient. She says that Zenith didnt investi gate 
the claim properl y. She says that CCTV footage would  have supported her version of events. 
Miss K says that she didnt cause all of the dama ge claimed for by the other driver. She says that 
Zenith should have contested the claim.
Miss K says that her prem iums increased  considerabl y. She wants Zenith to reinstate her no claim s 
discount and to compen sate her for the emoti onal and financial distress this matter has caused.
One of our investigat ors looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Zenith had acted 
unreason ably. The investigator said that Zenith recei ved a claim from the other driver  and dealt with 
it fairly. She thought that the compensat ion of £75 Zenith had paid in relati on to its failure to keep 
Miss K updated about the claim was fair.
Ref: DRN83178284Miss K didnt agree  with the invest igato r. She said:
She only told Zenith about the matte r for notificati on purposes but it took the matter  
out of her hands.
She could have  challenged the other driver in the smal l claim s court  to preserve her 
no claims discount,  as the other driver initially only wanted £250 for repai rs.
Zenith didnt investi gate a fraudul ent claim.
As Zenith didnt inform her about the claim,  she couldnt contest it.
The compe nsati on of £75 wasnt reasona ble.
Zenith should have  obtained CCTV footage and she disputes the exten t of the 
dama ge claimed.
The claim included a cost of £60 for an assessor but she doesnt believe that the 
extent of the dama ge was investigated thoro ughly.
Miss K asked  that an ombudsman  consi der her comp laint, so it was passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence  and argument s to decide whats fair and 
reaso nable in the circumsta nces of this complai nt.
The starting point is the terms  and conditi ons of Miss Ks policy,  which include a provisio n that says 
Zenith is entitled to take over and conduct the settlement of any claim in Miss Ks name . That 
mean s Zenith was entitled to deal with the other driver s claim as it saw fit. But wed expe ct it to do 
so fairly.
Zenith says that it had a protocol in place with the busin ess acting for the other drive r, which meant 
that it dealt with the claim without docu menta ry evidence. So, it cant now produce evidence  to show 
the extent of the dama ge for which the other driver claimed , how the repair costs were  calculated or 
whethe r hire costs were justified . That means I   cant establ ish wheth er Zenith paid an exaggerated 
claim or not.
In the particular circumstan ces here, where  Miss K had told Zenith that she wanted to know if it 
recei ved a claim and put it on notice that any claim may be exaggerated, Zenith should  have not 
only notified  Miss K when it recei ved the claim but also done more to investi gate it. I  think its failure 
to do so caused Miss K distress and inconvenience. She lost the opport unity to challenge the extent 
of the claim. Miss K was also distre ssed to learn, some months  later, of the terms on which the 
other driver s claim had been settled.
I  note that Zenith has alrea dy paid compensat ion of £75 in relation to failing to notify     Miss K of the 
claim. I  dont think thats sufficient. Consider ing everyt hing, I   think Zenith should pay Miss K a 
further £225 in relation to its failure  to tell her that it had received a claim and its failure to 
investigate the claim,  making total compensati on of £300.
I cant reasonably direc t Zenith to reinstate  Miss Ks no claims discount. Thats because I Icant 
establi sh that the other drive rs claim was exaggerat ed and Miss K accept ed that she was 
responsible for some damage to the other driver s car. Miss K said that the CCTV footage would ve 
supporte d her versi on of events. Even if the CCTV captured the incident  - which isnt always the case  
-1 doubt  that it wouldve show n the extent of the damag e to each  vehicle.  This is norma lly determi ned 
by an expert,  such  as an engineer. On balance, it
Ref: DRN83178285seems likely that Zenith would have still paid the other driver s claim, at least in part, if it had looked  
at things more closel y. So, it would have  recorded this as a fault  claim in any even t, which would 
have affected Miss Ks future premium  and no claim s discount.
Zenith has provi ded me with confident ial, business sensitive informati on to explai n how it calcul ated 
Miss Ks 2017 and 2018 premiu ms. Im afraid I   cant share that with Miss K but Ive checked it 
carefull y. Im satisfied the price Miss K was charged at renew al was
calcul ated correctl y and all of Zenit hs custo mers in Miss Ks position  will have been  charged  a 
similar premium.
my provisional decision 
For the reasons Ive set out above, my provisional  decision is that I  uphold     Miss Ks 
compl aint. I   intend to direct Zenith Insuran ce pic to pay Miss K compensati on of an 
additi onal £225  in relation to her distress and incon venie nce.
Ref: DRN8317828