K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about AXA Insurance  UK Plcs (AXA) continued handling of a claim he 
made on a home insurance policy following damage  to his property.
Where I refer to AXA in this decision,  it includes their contractors, loss adjusters and other 
representatives acting  on its behalf.
background
In 2010, Mr G made a claim  on a home  insurance policy he held with AXA. AXAs  handling 
of the claim has been the subject of a number of complaints by Mr G to this service,  but the 
relevant element here is that Mr G remains dissatisfied with many  aspects of the way that 
the claim has continued to be handled.  
Ive previously determined  that, because of the rules  which govern our service, we cant 
consider Mr Gs complaints about AXAs handling  of the claim before  December  2017,  or his 
concerns that AXA havent complied with the previous final decisions of our service.
Mr G had initially complained to AXA about its ongoing conduct on the claim, but it didnt 
accept it had done anything wrong. Our investigator  also didnt think  AXA should be asked to 
do any more than it had already done.  Mr G didnt accept this and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id start by acknowledging  that Mr G is clearly extremely  dissatisfied  with AXAs handling  of 
this claim throughout,  and this includes matters before December 2017. But as Ive 
previously explained,  I can only look at how AXAs handled the claim, and matters  which  
have arisen since  that date.
Its also important to note that previous decisions of our service  relating to this claim have 
identified errors and failings on AXAs part. But that alone isnt enough for me to say that the 
continued handling of the claim  has been  below the standard which  Id expect, or that AXA 
should have done more  than it should have. 
I think its fair as well to say that the relationship between Mr G and AXA has broken down to 
the point now that agreement  between  them about  how to proceed  is almost impossible. My  
focus here is on AXAs actions, and whether its acted fairly in the circumstances  during  the 
relevant time period.
As Ive said above,  Mr G has made complaints about many  different aspects of AXAs 
handling of the claim.  Im satisfied that that they can be summarised together  thus:
Delays to repairs to the property
AXAs cash settlement offer
The storage  of Mr Gs personal effects
Maintenance of the property while the claim is ongoing
AXAs actions following locks being changed
Ref: DRN82087212The removal of items from the property
Alternative accommodation and expenses
Communication from AXA
Ill consider each of these  in turn.
Delays to repairs
I know that, to date, repairs to Mr Gs property havent been carried  out. So theres no doubt  
that they have  been delayed, given that over 10 years have now passed since the damage 
occurred. But my role here is to look at whether AXA is responsible for delays which  have 
occurred since December  2017.
In December 2017, the claim was at a stage  where a design  team  was producing a schedule  
of works for the repairs to Mr Gs property. It had been agreed that the work would be carried 
out in two phases. The design team provided  a scope  for the first phase  in December 2017. 
Quotations from contractors were received in May 2018, but not all the contractors who were  
asked to provide  quotes did so. 
 
Theres an important point  to consider  here in relation  to the design team  who were 
compiling the schedules. This is that theyd been engaged by Mr G, albeit with AXA being 
liable for their costs,  and from the evidence available to me, were unwilling to engage  on 
occasion with AXA without authority from Mr G.
Mr G says that contractors were unwilling to deal with the repairs  because of AXAs  previous 
conduct on the claim, while  AXAs  records suggest  that contractors were  reluctant to carry 
out work  because of Mr Gs conduct.  The relevant point is that I cant  say that delays in 
contractors providing  quotations arose from anything AXA did after December 2017. The 
contractors (except one who was appointed by AXA) were  approached by Mr Gs design 
team after that date and I cant see that AXA were  involved in contacting  them for updates, 
making enquiries or asking for information.  That would seem to have come  from the design 
team, who had been appointed by Mr G.  It wasnt until September 2018 that AXA was 
provided with a report detailing the quotations  which had been received. So, Im not 
persuaded that AXA is at fault for delays about  the provision of quotations.
On review of the schedule  of works  and quotations,  AXA considered that what was being 
proposed contained elements of betterment  that is to say the proposed  works would mean 
the property was to be put in a better condition than it had been before  the damage  had 
occurred. AXA queried this with the design  team, and a response was received in February 
2019, at which time it was informed the existing  quotes were  now out of date and so new 
quotes would be required.
AXA then asked for the design team to provide a schedule of works for the second phase of 
the repairs, which was provided in May 2019. On reviewing this, AXA were  again concerned 
that the proposed works would lead to betterment  so queried this. By October  2019,  these 
queries hadnt  been resolved to AXAs satisfaction. AXA then made a cash  settlement offer 
which it said was sufficient for it to fully discharge  its liabilities under the policy. 
While there  were undoubtedly delays during this process, Im not satisfied I can conclude  
these were attributable  to AXA.  The evidence  Ive seen is that, on receiving information from 
the design team, AXA was responding in a reasonable period of time and then chasing the 
design team  for updates.  And as the design  team  wasnt contracted  by AXA,  or working on 
Ref: DRN82087213its behalf, then it would not be reasonable for me to hold it responsible  for delays which  were 
attributable to a lack of progress by the design  team.
Im satisfied that the evidence available to me shows AXA regularly chased the design team  
and contractors with queries  about  progress requested every month or so. Im satisfied that 
was reasonable  in the circumstances.
I do think that AXAs actions demonstrated that it was seeking to progress Mr Gs claim. It 
was in contact  with the design team and making enquiries about  the information  it was being 
provided. And, having had no substantive response  to its queries about the first phase, it 
asked for information  about the proposals  for the second phase of works,  which  Im satisfied 
was an attempt to prevent  further delays once the first phase  had been  agreed and was in 
progress. Im not persuaded that AXA is responsible  for delays to the repairs.
The cash  settlement offer
Having been unable to agree a schedule of works,  or obtain quotations based on an agreed 
schedule, AXA proceeded to make  an offer of £250,000 to cash settle the claim. Mr Gs 
unhappy with the fact that AXA have taken this option and says the amount offered is much 
less than it would cost to properly  settle  the claim.
Its a common policy  condition for an insurer to be able to, at its option, settle a claim by way 
of arranging for repair works to be carried out, or make a payment to the policyholder  for its 
liability. Im satisfied that AXAs preference to move  to a cash settlement was reasonable 
here. After such a long period of time where the repairs  to the property  hadnt  been 
completed, and with no obvious solution to the issues  around  the schedules  of works and 
quotations from contractors for those  works,  it was fair for AXA to look to resolve its liabilities 
by making a settlement offer.
In terms of the amount, theres a very large  difference between the amount AXA has offered, 
in full and final settlement  of the claim, and what Mr G considers to be reasonable settlement  
figure based on what he thinks AXA is liable for. 
AXAs offer is for £250,000. This was made up of approximately £215,000 for the first and 
second phases of the works  including professional  fees, and £35,000 for the remaining 
liabilities arising from the claim. The £215,000 figure  was reached by way of the lowest 
tender figure for the first phase of works,  and an estimate for the second  phase of the works 
by AXAs  loss adjuster. AXA believed that the estimate was likely to be over-stated, rather  
than under-estimated  as the first phase tender was considered to include items  which  
constituted betterment.  Mr G has calculated AXAs liability as exceeding £1 million.  He 
calculated the costs of the phase one and phase two works as being in excess  of £415,000.  
AXA. But Im unable  to conclude that AXAs offer is unreasonable.  At the time of making this 
offer remained of the view that the proposed works constituted betterment on the part of Mr 
G, but still included  a figure based  on the proposed  works for the first phase. I havent  seen 
anything from Mr G, other than his own calculations, to show that AXAs offer doesnt extend 
to cover its full liability on the claim. 
Many of the costs estimated by Mr G are based  on hypothetical calculations from what  I can 
see. His estimate includes £57,000  in inconvenience payments to various parties, an 
uncosted contingency of £35,000, £18,000 for professional fees and a further £30,000 for 
organisation / management. Hes also included £20,000 for damage  to his belongings in 
Ref: DRN82087214storage, but as Ill cover separately, he has declined AXAs offer to inspect or remove  his 
belongings from storage. 
Mr G has also included an estimate  of £200,000  for repairs to a neighbouring  property. Its 
unclear why he believes AXA are liable for this, as AXA have observed that their liability  only 
extends to repairing his property, but that any works which are required to the neighbouring 
property as a result  of the repairs to his property  would be covered. Its said that if further 
works are required, evidence would need  to be presented to this effect.  So Im not 
persuaded that any additional repairs should be budgeted  into the settlement offer.  If 
additional costs  are anticipated,  and to be covered by AXA, then evidently the offer may 
need to be increased.  But Im not satisfied theres sufficient evidence to show that this is the 
case at this time. And there  has been  ample  opportunity for such evidence to come  forward,  
yet it has not.
Having thought about this carefully, I conclude that AXAs offer of £250,000  as full and final 
settlement for all matters  relating to the claim is reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Personal effects storage
Its Mr Gs position that many of his items,  which were put into storage following the damage 
to the property, havent been properly looked  after by AXA and that they have become 
damaged. Hes estimated  the value of this damage  to be in the region of £20,000.
has offered Mr G a number of options. Its said he can inspect  his belongings and make it 
aware of damage  to any of them, and additionally he can remove any items which are 
currently in storage and they can be returned to him. Mr G has rejected these options, 
saying it isnt his responsibility to monitor  and quantify damage to his belongings. Hes sent 
some photos  of the items  in storage,  but I cant see that these show  damage or loss has 
occurred as hes suggested. 
Im persuaded that AXAs actions here are reasonable. Mr G has alleged  that AXA havent 
taken proper care of his belongings while theyve  been in storage, but he hasnt provided 
evidence to this effect.  AXA has extended  an offer for him to review  his belongings, at which  
time it can be established whether they have  been damaged, and if so, what  has caused that 
damage. Or, alternatively, if Mr G doesnt  wish to risk future  or further  damage,  he can 
remove any items which are currently held in storage. That was a reasonable and sensible 
way forward in the circumstances. I think AXA has acted reasonably in respect of the Mr Gs 
concerns about  the storage of his personal effects. 
Maintenance of the property
There are two elements  to Mr Gs concerns here, both related to the exterior  of the property. 
The first is that a gate has been damaged during  the period hes been away  from the 
property which has led to a lack of security  at the property. He believes that AXA should 
cover and arrange for the repair or replacement.
AXA says that for it to be liable for the gate, it needs  to be shown  that the gate has been  
damaged due to an insured reason, or that the damage has been caused by its 
representatives. Its said that from the information it has available, the damage is as a result 
of the age and normal  wear  and tear to the gate,  which isnt something it should  be liable for. 
Its said to Mr G that if it can provide  evidence  to refute this, it will look at this again. I think  
this is a reasonable response on AXAs part. It shouldnt be liable for any damage,  unrelated  
Ref: DRN82087215to the original incident, which occurs  as a result  of wear and tear, or for regular maintenance 
of the property which Mr G would have been responsible for if he was residing at the 
property. If, as has been suggested, the gate is in a poor state of repair  due to its age, then 
Mr G would ordinarily have been  responsible for its repair or replacement. The existence of 
an ongoing claim doesnt place the liability for that onto AXA.
Mr G is also unhappy about the garden, which has become  overgrown  and is in a poor 
condition. Im mindful that a previous decision from our service  requires AXA to return the 
garden to its pre-loss condition at the conclusion of the claim, so Im not going  to address 
this particular point.
Mr G says that AXA has control of the property and so it should be AXA who maintains the 
property and garden. But I note Mr G still has access  to the property and is evidently able to 
view the condition of the garden  by coming  to the view that it requires maintenance. AXA 
says that the garden remains Mr Gs responsibility,  but it has made  arrangements  for a small 
amount of gardening to be done  at the property through contractors. 
The work carried out by AXAs contractor has been  limited to grass  mowing  and bush 
cutting, essentially basic maintenance. This hasnt been without incident, as one 
appointment by the contractor was missed,  but I dont consider this to have a significant  
detrimental effect on Mr G. If Mr G considers  that additional work  should  be carried  out to 
maintain the property in a reasonable state from his perspective, then its open to him to 
either employ his own contractor or carry out work  himself. But that doesnt mean that AXA 
should be liable for it  in the event  that there wasnt a claim, hed be responsible for the 
standard maintenance and upkeep  of the property  and its not fair to expect AXA to be liable 
for this while  the claim is ongoing.
Changing of locks
AXA changed locks  at Mr Gs property in September 2019.  Mr Gs complaint relates to what 
happened afterwards.  
Briefly, it isnt disputed  that it took until January 2019 for Mr G to be provided with keys to the 
new locks, which limited  his access to the property. Significantly, post continued  to be sent 
to this address  and what was sent included utility bills and a bank  card. As he was unable to 
gain access to the property, he was unable  to use his usual bank account after his previous 
card expired  at the end of December 2019. Mr G used his credit cards, accumulating a large  
amount of debt and affecting his credit  rating.
AXAs acknowledged  that the communication around his keys,  and getting the new ones to 
him, could  have been handled better. It paid £250 in compensation to recognise this but 
didnt accept it should be liable for the additional fees and interest hed accumulated on 
credit cards or that it was responsible for his credit rating being affected.
Im not persuaded that I should ask AXA to do any more than it has already here.  Mr G knew 
that the bank card had been sent to the property to which  he didnt have access and was 
having difficulties  in obtaining  access to. But the evidence suggests that AXA was attempting  
to contact Mr G to discuss delivering the keys, and were unsuccessful  in speaking to him. 
There was also a period  when  Mr G was out of the country and so wouldnt have  been  in a 
position to receive  the new keys. 
Ref: DRN82087216It is acknowledged, however, that AXA could have been more proactive in this contact, and 
that there  were missed opportunities to get the keys to him sooner. It doesnt appear that Mr 
G contacted his bank to ask for a new card to be sent to his alternative  accommodation  or 
take any other action  to mitigate his losses. And the period of time between his card expiring 
and him then having access to the property  is a number of weeks, not the full period he was 
without access to the property. So the highest degree of inconvenience was for a short  
period of time in the full context of the claim.  I can also see that AXA were in contact with Mr 
G about this, and outlined their position  about what had happened, in the first week of 
January, so Mr G would have been aware of its position and could have taken action to 
resolve banking  matters in that period, for example by telephone or internet banking.
AXAs acknowledged  it could,  and should, have done better here.  But I cant  conclude  that it 
should pay any more  than the £250  it already has to Mr G in order to recognise  the 
inconvenience caused to him. I appreciate that being unable to access  his post for several 
months while the keys werent provided  to him would have been frustrating, but I cant agree 
that all of the issues which Mr G attributes to this are the sole fault of AXA.
Removal of items
Mr Gs concerned that items which were left in the property when he moved  out have been 
removed by AXAs contractors. AXAs acknowledged  that items have been  removed and not 
returned to the property,  including  a sink which is being held in storage.  Its said that Mr G 
can have items returned to him if he wants this. 
In terms of other items,  if Mr G is concerned  that items have been removed from the 
property and not properly stored, AXA has suggested Mr G can review and inspect all of the 
items which are in storage, and if items are missing  or damaged, to take this up with AXA 
directly. I cant see any evidence  which has been  put forward  by Mr G that shows  that items 
have been removed from his property and either  damaged or lost. If evidence to this effect 
can be provided, Id expect AXA to cover  this.
Alternative accommodation and expenses
Mr G has been living in a different  property that he owns and expenses  relating to this have 
been submitted  to AXA for it to pay. Mr Gs unhappy that there  have been delays to AXAs  
processing of these payments. He says that as a result it has left him in serious  financial 
difficulties.
From my review of the contact between Mr G and AXA about  the payment of these 
expenses, Im satisfied  that delays which arose in the payments to Mr G occurred when AXA 
queried some of the amounts  that were being claimed. I think  it was reasonable for AXA to 
seek to establish  the rationale behind some of the amounts being claimed. Irrespective of 
what had occurred previously, it would be unfair to expect an insurer  to make payments  
without being  satisfied that it was liable for what  was being claimed. Once it had satisfactorily  
concluded those  enquiries, it made the payments to Mr G. Im not persuaded that theres  
evidence of unreasonable delays  in making  these  payments.
Communication from AXA
Mr Gs concerns around communications are twofold.  Firstly,  hes unhappy  with the claim 
handler who has been his principal point  of contact during the period in question  and so 
Ref: DRN82087217wants a different person to act as his point of contact.  He also wanted  to speak with senior 
management at AXA about the claim.  
AXAs position is that it doesnt think it would  be practical to ask someone to take over as 
Mr Gs point of contact.  The current person acting in this capacity  is familiar  with the details 
of the case and is in a better position to take action  when required. I understand Mr Gs 
frustration with this person, as he considers that theyre being obstructive and delaying  the 
claim, but it seems to me to be sensible to leave in place the same person who knows about  
the case and would  be best placed  to respond to queries about the claim.
AXAs also said that, while senior  management  are aware of Mr Gs claim and the problems 
that have arisen,  theres no reason for them to speak  to him about the claim. The senior 
managers arent claims handlers and wouldnt be in a position  to progress the claim any 
more than those  individuals  hes in contact with. I cant see that theres any benefit, in terms 
of progressing the claim, in me asking  AXA to arrange for a senior manager to speak to 
Mr G.
Mr Gs also unhappy with the level of communication hes receiving from AXA.  While 
updates on the progress  of the claim have  been provided to him, hes asked for copies of 
internal correspondence and contact  with AXAs representatives and contractors. AXA said 
that such information was privileged but that he was able to submit a request  for data in 
accordance with his data protection  rights. Again,  I think that this is a reasonable response 
from AXA in the circumstances.  
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8208721