K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V are unhappy with the settlement offered to them by (the company  now known 
as) Fairmead Insurance  Limited in in respect  of their home insurance claim for water 
damage to their bathroom.
background
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs V reported a claim  to Fairmead following a leak from a shower  
pipe which  caused  damage to their ensuite bathroom and to the lounge  below.  In the course  
of repairing  the bathroom the leak to the pipe had to be repaired and Fairmeads contractors 
broke out several tiles so that access to the pipe could be gained. Fairmead agreed to pay 
the cost of obtaining and installing  new tiles on that wall in the bathroom. However the 
bathroom was fully tiled and replacement tiles to match couldnt be found. Fairmead offered 
to repair  and retile the damaged wall and to retile  the other walls. However Mr and Mrs V 
would have to pay 50% of the cost of materials and installation which was £1,755. 
Mr and Mrs V objected  to paying  towards the cost of the tiles on the other three  walls. They 
felt that if Fairmeads  contractors hadnt broken the tiles this wouldn't have been needed. As 
the parties couldnt agree Fairmead offered to cash settle the remainder of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs C couldnt agree to that.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Fairmead had acted fairly and in line with 
our approach with regard  to payment when undamaged parts  of a set cant be matched. 
Mr and Mrs V said they couldnt accept  Fairmeads  offer as it wasnt broken down. Fairmead 
said it was based  on the figure of £25 per m and our investigator sent a copy of the 
(uncosted) schedule  of works to Mr and Mrs V. They denied  agreeing  to allowing £25 per m 
and still said that Fairmead should break  down  the figures.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I shall just set out here our approach to the question of matching  parts  of a set. When, as 
here, part of a set (which here is the tiled walls of the bathroom) is damaged  as part of the 
claim, then strictly the insurer is only liable to repair/replace  the damaged part. However the 
damaged tiles couldnt be replaced with matching tiles. So in that case  we say its fair for the 
insurer to contribute  to the cost of replacing  the undamaged parts of the set. And fair 
payment, as here,  would  be 50%. The policyholder can either accept that payment and put 
up with the non-matching repair or pay the other 50% and have the whole set replaced. 
Fairmead offered  to do that here  if Mr and Mrs V contributed  the remaining 50%. I think 
that was a fair offer.
Taking Mr and Mrs Vs point about the damage, the evidence  is that part of the plasterboard 
wall had to be removed  so their plumber could have  access  to the pipe to repair it. In the 
course of doing  so several of the tiles were  broken.  As far as I can see that was a part of 
accessing the pipe. As trace and access (though not the actual repair  to the pipe) is covered 
under the policy  I think the damage to the tiles was unavoidable.
Ref: DRN83937632As far as Mr and Mrs Vs point about the breakdown of the costs is concerned, I cant require 
Fairmead to break down  those costs any further, as it's entitled to keep its own contractor 
rates confidential. It has said what the base price of the tiling is. In any event it also advised 
Mr and Mrs V what 50% of the cost of the tiling the other three walls of the bathroom was. I 
think they had enough information to work  out the cost for themselves. And, as Ive said,  it 
offered to carry out the work with Mr and Mrs V paying the 50% contribution.
So, as Fairmead  has offered,  in line with our approach,  to pay the 50% cost of the 
undamaged walls, I think it has acted  reasonably.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8393763