K821x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2007. Miss M says AIB Group  (UK) Plc, trading as First Trust Bank, mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, First Trust Bank  had to make it clear  to Miss M that she had a choice 
about it. But Miss M says she didnt  sign for the PPI and didnt know  she was being charged  
for it.
First Trust Bank has sent us a copy of Miss Ms loan agreement.  This included  a section on 
PPI, which  described it as optional and had yes and no boxes to show whether Miss M 
wanted to take it out. And there is a pre-printed cross in the yes box. The section also 
showed the level of cover Miss M had chosen and the monthly  cost and benefit of the PPI 
policy.
While the cross in the yes box for the PPI and the cross showing the level of cover  Miss M 
had chosen were pre-printed,  all of the details on the loan agreement were  pre-printed too, 
including Miss Ms name and address and the amount  of the loan.  This suggests there was 
some conversation between Miss M and First Trust Bank before the loan agreement was 
printed out. And, based on the evidence I have, I think its likely First Trust Bank  made it 
clear to Miss M that she had a choice  about the PPI in this conversation.
So I think First Trust Bank  did make  it clear to Miss M that she had a choice about the PPI. 
And I think Miss M chose  to take the PPI, knowing she didnt have to.
First Trust Bank says it recommended  the PPI to Miss M, so it had to check  that it was right 
for her. And, based  on what  Ive seen of Miss Ms circumstances at the time, I think  that the 
PPI was right for her. For example, she doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for significantly 
longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled  to sick pay.
Miss M told us her parents wouldve helped with her repayments. And I dont doubt they 
wouldve wanted to. But peoples financial circumstances  can change. So Miss Ms parents 
might not have been able to help her when she needed it. The PPI meant  Miss M wouldnt 
have to rely on her parents to make her loan repayments if she wasnt  earning. So I still think 
it was right for her.
As well as checking it was right for her, First Trust Bank had to give Miss M clear information  
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. 
But, for the same reasons  I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI would have been 
useful for Miss M if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Miss M off taking it out.
Ref: DRN83493172Which means First Trust Bank doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But First Trust  Bank  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because:
First Trust Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  First Trust Bank didnt 
tell Miss M, that was unfair.
To put that right, First Trust Bank has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
First Trust Bank has to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. First Trust Bank should also pay back  to Miss M any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
First Trust Bank should pay back to Miss M the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. First Trust Bank  
should also pay Miss M 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so AIB Group  (UK) Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But AIB Group (UK) Plc does have to pay back  to Miss M any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8349317