K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) charged him for his packaged  
bank account  without telling him. Mr C opened  a Royalties Gold account  in 2010. 
This account was a staff account for which he did not have to pay the monthly  fee. 
In 2014 Mr C left employment with RBS and around  six months  later, the account fee began 
to be charged.  Mr C says that he didnt realise until this year that he was paying a fee for the 
account. Mr C says that RBS did not tell him that he would be charged for the account after 
he left its employment.
Background
Mr Cs complaint has already been  looked into by one of our adjudicators. He didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. Mr C doesnt  agree with the assessment so has asked for an 
ombudsman to consider  his complaint  afresh.
I should say at this point  that this decision will only be looking at whether RBS did anything 
wrong charging Mr C for his account  after he stopped working for RBS and whether it mis-
informed him that he would continue to get the account for free on an ongoing basis. I will 
not be looking at the sale itself, as this is a matter  between employer and employee, which is 
not something I will comment  on.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
And after giving Mr Cs case  a lot of thought, I havent seen enough to conclude  that RBS 
did anything wrong  in charging  Mr C for his packaged bank account, after he left his 
employment with RBS. Or that RBS had mis-informed Mr C that he would continue  to 
receive the account for free.
I hope that my explanation will help Mr C understand how Ive come to this conclusion.
In situations like these  - where the evidence is unclear  or there  are conflicts between  what 
the parties tell us  I make my decision based on what I think  was more likely to have 
happened, based on everything that is available.
Firstly, I should highlight  that RBS charging  Mr C after he left employment was not an error. I 
note Mr C has pointed to some mis-information in relation  to when he would start being  
charged and that he knows of other  ex-staff member who were  not charged.  But I have been  
provided with documentation that satisfies me that RBSs policy was to charge for packaged 
bank account  once a staff member left employment  after a period of time determined  by the 
circumstances by which the staff member  left employment. 
Mr C says that when he left RBSs employment, he was not told that he would  be charged 
for the account.  Whereas  RBS has explained  that he wouldve been told in his exit interview  
and wouldve been provided with a leavers pack,  setting  out that he would have to pay 
monthly fees for this Royalties Gold account.  
Mr C says that he was not given  an exit interview or a leavers pack  due to the circumstances 
of him leaving employment. So, given this, I accept that it is possible that he was never 
Ref: DRN82073092directly told during the leaving  process  that he would have  to pay the account fee when he 
left RBSs employment.
That said,  I think he wouldve been  told during the initial sale that the account  usually had a 
monthly fee and that this was being waived only because he was a staff member.
I also have not seen anything to say that Mr C was told that he would continue to get the 
account for free after he left employment.  After all, the account being  free was a benefit of 
employment, and it would  be reasonable to assume  that when he left employment, he would 
not have access  to his former staff benefits.  So I think  that Mr C wouldve known at the time 
that he left that it was likely that he was going to be charged for his account  going forward.  
Moreover, I am satisfied  that over the years he held the account he wouldve been told that 
the account normally had a monthly  fee (whether this was because of the various account 
documentation sent to him or indeed  his bank statements) and I cant see why he wouldve 
thought this could never  apply to him just because he had at one point been  employed by 
RBS.
So, overall I dont  think RBS did anything wrong  when  it charged Mr C for his packaged 
account or that it mis-led  him in relation to him being charged. I know this isnt the outcome 
that Mr C was looking for. But I hope  that my explanation  will help him understand how Ive 
come to this conclusion. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8207309