K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander  UK Plc, (trading  as Abbey National), mis-sold them  
a mortgage payment protection insurance,  (MPPI), policy.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set in in my provisional 
decision of 23 January 2019,  a copy of which is attached to this final decision.
Neither Mr and Mrs M nor Abbey responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in making my decision on Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs M nor Abbey has sent me any further  information  or comments since 
they received  it, I see no reason to vary my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81953982Copy of provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander UK Plc, (trading  as Abbey National), mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection  insurance, (MPPI),  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out monthly-premium  MPPI during a meeting in 2002. The policy only covered Mr 
M. Initially the premiums were about £13 a month. And following  a successful claim the insurance 
would have paid out about  £210 a month if Mr M had been  off work because of accident,  sickness or 
involuntary unemployment.  These payments would have been made  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicators view was that the complaint  should be upheld.  As Abbey disagreed the matter has 
come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance on our 
website. Ive followed  this in making my decision on Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I explain  why below.
Mr and Mrs M say that Abbey told them about MPPI but that they said that they didnt want to take 
it. So it was added to their account  without their knowledge. As the sale took place during a 
meeting I dont know what the parties said to each other, but I think that Mr and Mrs M knew that 
the policy  was optional and that they chose to take it. I say this because their mortgage had been 
in place  for some  years before they took out the insurance. Also the terms of the policy were  
flexible. For instance  it could have covered them both had they so wished. And Mr and Mrs M had 
some choice over the waiting period at the beginning of the claim before any payments would  be 
due and the maximum  number of monthly payments that would be payable  for each claim.  (These 
details were  set out in the schedule of cover enclosed  in the welcome  letter sent to Mr M once the 
policy had started.) So Im satisfied that Abbey most likely would have discussed  Mr and Mrs Ms 
wishes with them. Further, from what we know about Abbeys usual sales process, Mr and Mrs M 
would most  likely to have had to sign a separate application form for the MPPI. Because the sale 
was so long ago I can understand why Mr and Mrs M no longer  remember  the detail of what  
happened during  the meeting;
Abbey recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs M so it needed  to take reasonable  steps to ensure  
that it was suitable for them.  Knowing what I do about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time 
and the terms and conditions of the MPPI, I find that it was suitable because:
oMr M was eligible  for the MPPI;
oMr M had been diagnosed with a medical  condition before the sale.  Had he been off work 
because of this, the policy wouldnt have paid out. However the diagnosis was made some 20 
years before  he bought the policy.  And, although  weve asked,  I havent so far been given  any 
detail of the effect, if any, that the condition  had had on Mr Ms ability to work. Or whether - 
and if so how - it was still affecting  him by the time he and Mrs M took out the MPPI. This 
means that I dont think that I have enough information for me fairly to find that, at the time of 
the sale,  Mr M might  have  thought that he was likely  to be off work because  of this condition  
so making the policy unsuitable for him and Mrs M;
Ref: DRN81953983oIve seen nothing to suggest that Mr M was affected  by any of the policys other main  
restrictions or limitations  such as those affecting  someone who was self-employed;
oMr and Mrs M were  both liable  for the mortgage repayments. But the policy only covered Mr 
M. As the benefits could have been  split between them, had they so wished,  I find that Mr and 
Mrs M chose  only to cover Mr M;
oThe policy  was competitively priced  and had a reasonable benefit by reference to other 
similar polices available in the market at the time. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr 
and Mrs M couldnt  afford the premiums.  In any event, had they later thought that the policy 
was unaffordable or that they no longer wanted it, they could have cancelled it at any time 
without further cost;
oMr M has told us that he had no other insurance or savings to help him and Mrs M make their 
mortgage repayments had he been off work. He was however entitled to some sick pay from 
his work.  But the MPPI  would have paid out in addition to this, leaving his employee benefits  
available to help meet  his other expenses while he was unable  to work. And the policy  would 
also have paid out if he had become involuntarily  unemployed. So I think the insurance could 
have been of use to Mr and Mrs M.
Its possible  that Abbey  didnt give Mr and Mrs M all the information about the policy that it ought  
to have so that they could  make a fully informed decision whether  to take it or not. But, as Ive 
found that it was suitable for them and that they chose to take it, I dont  think that better 
information would have changed their minds and stopped them buying it. I say this particularly 
bearing in mind the serious consequences that could  have arisen had Mr and Mrs M failed to 
make their monthly  mortgage  repayments  which  were secured on their home.
So I dont think that Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of anything that Abbey may have done 
wrong during the sale. So theres nothing that I require  it to put right.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given above my provisional  decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8195398