K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank  UK PLC didnt carry out a chargeback  request  
when they asked them to.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision which was sent to both 
parties on 11 July 2019. A copy of this is attached below and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional findings I explained  that I didnt think Barclays  could have raised a 
successful chargeback here. I also said I thought  Barclays offer of £25 compensation to 
acknowledge it may have lost some  letters  sent to it by Mr L was reasonable.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision and said that they didnt have any further 
information to add at this time.
Mr L responded to my provisional decision with a number of points. 
He further reinforced why he and Mrs L made  the decision to return home  and not travel 
back to the airport  for their delayed flight. Hes also pointed out that all of the passengers  on 
the flight were eligible  to receive  the same amount of compensation as they did for the delay.  
He clarified that he sent three  signed for letters to Barclays  about  this matter, not two as I 
referred to in my provisional decision. He said he doubts Barclays  could have lost all three 
letters internally.  And feels that they only responded to his chargeback  request because  our 
service got involved.
He also reiterated  that he feels the airlines  service  was below par. And he said that airlines 
can no longer list technical  problems as being outside of their control following a legal case 
in 2014. So he feels he and Mrs L were entitled to a full refund under the holiday companys 
terms and conditions. And that Barclays have a strong position on which to recover this for 
them. 
Additionally he clarified  that the problem  with the plane occurred after its departure from the 
airport terminal. He said it had been positioned ready to taxi to the end of the runway before 
the decision was taken to delay the flight.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful  for the detailed and considered response Mr and Mrs L have sent to my 
provisional decision. Whilst Ive only summarised this above,  Id like to assure  them I have 
read this in full and thought about  all of the points  theyve  made.
I do sympathise with their situation and understand why they felt unable to go on this 
holiday, and why they feel so strongly that the holiday  company didnt treat them  fairly  here.  
But I can only consider  the actions of Barclays, and what it would  be fair for me to expect 
Barclays to have done.
Ref: DRN88356212Mr L has referenced a legal case, the details of which  Ive looked at. But this case  in 
question is one between  a customer and an airline  direct. While I have to have regard  to 
relevant law, I have  to look at what action Barclays was required to take in respect of a 
chargeback under the rules of the card scheme (Visa). And I dont think  its reasonable to 
expect Barclays to be aware of specific legal cases when considering whether to attempt a 
chargeback. Thats not their role. So I still cant say with any certainty that a chargeback  
would have been successful.
Ive also thought more about what Mr and Mrs L say about the poor service  they received 
from Barclays  or perhaps  more  accurately  the lack of it through no response to signed for 
letters. And I raised this with Barclays again  in light of Mr Ls clarification that he in fact sent 
the bank three letters, not two. 
Barclays has looked into this further. But has pointed out that when inputting the tracking 
reference number  Mr L has provided for his first letter, the tracker only appears  to confirm 
that it was delivered  to Swan House DO. This is a Royal  Mail delivery office, not the 
address for Barclays. So Barclays says it cant be certain this letter was ever received by the 
correct department. In the circumstances, I think that Barclays  existing offer of £25 
compensation is still a fair one.
I realise Mr and Mrs L will still be disappointed with my decision. They may want  to take 
matters further through other means (including against the holiday company itself).  But my 
decision brings to an end what we, in trying  to resolve their dispute with Barclays  informally,  
can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Mr and Mrs L further on this.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs L £25 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience  as it has already offered to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88356213copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt carry  out a chargeback request when  they 
asked them to.
background
In December 2017 Mr and Mrs L booked an all inclusive  package  holiday including flights, 
accommodation and transfers. They were due to go on the holiday on 3 March 2018, but their flight 
was delayed until the next day. 
Customers were  advised  to either wait at the airport, or go home and come back  the next morning. Mr 
and Mrs L live 75 miles away from the airport, and felt this placed them in an impossible situation.  Mr 
L explained they arrived home around 11:00pm, and had been told they needed to be back  at the 
airport for 4:20am to check in for their rescheduled flight. They didnt feel able to do this, so they didnt 
go back to the airport to get the flight. 
Mr L says this wouldnt have happened if theyd been given overnight accommodation close to the 
airport by the holiday  company. He feels they breached  package travel regulations by not offering  
this. Hes complained  to various parties including the holiday company and the holiday companys 
airline. The holiday company  told him that hed receive £699.98 compensation for the delayed flight. 
But Mr L feels  he should be reimbursed the full cost of the holiday  given he and his wife werent able 
to enjoy  it.  
On 4 September 2018 Mr L wrote to Barclays and asked them to make a chargeback for a payment of 
£1228.68 to the holiday  company, which  he made on his debit card. He didnt hear anything back 
from them  so he sent another letter on 5 November  2018.  When he didnt  get a response to this letter 
either, Mr and Mrs L made a complaint to our service.
Barclays said that they wouldnt be able to raise a successful chargeback as, although  theyd made 
the decision not to wait for the delayed flight, the holiday had still been available to 
Mr and Mrs L. But they did offer them  £25 compensation  for the delay in responding  to their request  
which they explained was because they didnt receive  their letter.  
Mr and Mrs L didnt think this was fair. Our adjudicator  said they understood why 
Mr and Mrs L hadnt waited for their flight, but they agreed with Barclays that as the flight  wasnt 
cancelled there wasnt a valid reason under which Barclays  couldve made  a chargeback request.
Mr L feels Barclays are required to refund him even if they are unable  to recover the funds  from the 
holiday company through the chargeback process.  And hes still of the opinion that there was a 
breach of contract as he wasnt provided with overnight accommodation despite paying  for seven  
nights accommodation as part of the holiday package. So the case  has been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed,  but I dont think Barclays 
could have successfully  raised a chargeback on their behalf here. So Im not going  to ask them to do 
anything further. Ill explain  why.
Chargeback is a process which allows  customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there is a 
problem with the goods  or services they paid for under  a certain card scheme. Chargeback is not an 
automatic right, and its not guaranteed to succeed. The card issuer   in this case  Barclays - doesnt 
have to submit a chargeback request to the card scheme. But we do consider it good practice for a 
business to consider carrying  out a chargeback request if the customer has asked them to do so.
Ref: DRN88356214There are strict rules  that govern when  Barclays can make a chargeback  request. These rules  are set 
by the third party card scheme  in this case Visa. Barclays say they didnt attempt  a chargeback 
because they didnt consider  it would be successful.  One of the reasons  a chargeback can be raised 
is because services havent been received.  I agree with Barclays  there was no possibility of raising a 
chargeback on this basis because the holiday was still available to Mr and Mrs L, albeit with a later 
departure. 
However I appreciate this isnt Mr Ls argument.  Hes essentially saying that the holiday was no longer 
as described, so he and Mrs L felt they werent in a position to go on it. Theyd booked seven nights 
accommodation but due to the delayed flight were  only going to receive six. He feels  strongly  that 
they should  have been offered overnight accommodation close to the airport  to enable them  to get 
their delayed  flight.  Hes referred to the fact he considers that because this wasnt offered to them, the 
holiday company breached  their contract with him, and the relevant package  travel regulations.
Services or merchandise not being  as described  is one of the reasons a card provider might raise  a 
chargeback. So I think Barclays could have given  some consideration to this. But overall, I dont  think 
its likely  a chargeback  would have been successful on this basis either. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions that apply  to package holidays booked through  the holiday 
company Mr and Mrs L used. They say customers will be entitled to a full refund if the company  make 
a major change to their holiday. But they also explain that a delay to a flight  that they have to make  
within 24 hours  of departure will not be considered a major change unless its for more than 24 hours 
and is due to events  within  their control. 
When Mr and Mrs L made the decision not to go on their holiday, they believed the delay to their flight 
was going to be for less than 24 hours. Mr L has provided us with evidence that despite the delay they 
were initially  notified of, the flight actually still hadnt taken off 24 hours  after the original  scheduled 
departure time. However this was due to technical problems with the plane  and I can see that 
unavoidable and unforeseeable technical problems  with transport is one of the events  the holiday 
provider lists as being  beyond  their control, or that of their suppliers. So whilst I acknowledge his 
frustration, I dont think this constituted a major change which entitled him to a full refund under the 
terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr L considers  that the holiday company were nevertheless in breach of the relevant 
package travel regulations.  But having looked at these regulations, Im not convinced  Barclays would 
have succeeded in raising a chargeback for the full cost of the holiday on this basis. The problems 
with Mr and Mrs Ls flight occurred before  departure,  and the cause was outside of the control of the 
holiday company and their airline.  I accept Mr and Mrs L dont  feel the holiday  company assisted them  
as they should have done. But I cant see that theres any specific requirement for overnight 
accommodation to be provided  in these circumstances. And Im mindful that Mr and Mrs L have 
already been offered £699.48 compensation for their delayed flight. 
However, I will reiterate here that we are informal dispute  resolution service, not a court. Its possible 
that a court may reach a different conclusion as to the application of these regulations  than I have 
done. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs L, and I understand  why they felt they couldnt  go on the holiday, 
I cant  see that the circumstances met any of the reasons set out under the chargeback rules  that 
would have enabled Barclays  to recover their money  for them. I appreciate Mr and Mrs L feel they 
werent treated fairly by the holiday company, but Im afraid I cant fairly and reasonably ask Barclays 
to raise a chargeback on this basis alone, for the reasons Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN88356215Mr L feels that Barclays should have refunded  the cost of the holiday even if they couldnt  raise  a 
successful chargeback. Hes suggested that the chargeback process  provides  customers  with similar 
protection to that which credit card transactions are afforded by section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act. But there are some  big differences  between the two  one being  that a chargeback is raised  
solely against  the supplier of the goods or services in dispute, whereas under a section 75 claim the 
credit provider is jointly liable.  Barclays arent jointly  liable  here, and I wouldnt expect them to refund  
Mr and Mrs L out of their own pocket. 
I appreciate it was frustrating  for Mr and Mrs L that Barclays didnt  respond to Mr Ls letter  asking 
them to raise a chargeback request until after he involved our service. Barclays have explained they 
didnt receive Mr Ls original letter. Mr L has pointed out he has proof of delivery of his letters, so he 
isnt happy with this response.  I cant be certain as to why Barclays didnt receive them. But I can see 
theyve acknowledged they may have been lost internally in their final response letter, and offered £25 
compensation for this. I think  this is reasonable  in the circumstances.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs L £25 compensation  for 
distress and inconvenience  as it has already offered to do so.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8835621