K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Mortgage  Agency Services  Number  Five Limited (MAS)  has unfairly 
increased the interest rate applicable to his mortgage  both by putting up its standard 
variable rate (SVR) and by charging him extra because hes renting the property out. He 
complains it wont give him permission to let the property because  it expects an unrealistic 
rent. And he complains the effect of all this is to worsen his financial difficulties.
 
background
Mr K originally took out the mortgage with another company but it was sold on to MAS many 
years ago. This complaint relates to things that have happened since  MAS took over.
Mr K has been on MASs SVR for around ten years, and its both increased and reduced the 
SVR several times over that period  sometimes around the same  time as changes  to the 
Bank of England  base rate, sometimes not. Mr K complained about changes to his interest 
rate, among  other things,  and the Financial  Ombudsman Service didnt uphold  his complaint 
about that in 2013. 
Mr K has since complained again  about the interest  rate. He also complains that hes being 
charged extra to let the property out. When he split with his then partner and began to 
experience some financial difficulty he moved  out of the property  and let it to tenants. MAS 
didnt give him permission to rent the property until his home insurance was changed to 
insurance based on a rental property. When this was done, it gave him consent to let.
However, the consent to let was to be reviewed every year.  Before the 2014 review,  MAS 
changed its policy. It would still allow consent to let  but only if it could be shown that the 
property rental income was at least 120% of the mortgage payments. Mr Ks tenants were 
paying him less than the mortgage  payments,  and Mr K was paying the extra  £100  himself. 
So MAS refused  to renew the consent to let. It said he was now letting it without consent   
so it added 1% to the interest rate.
Mr K complained. He said the interest  rate was too high. He said it wasnt  fair MAS had 
changed its position on letting the property out  and that he was being charged an extra  1% 
as a result. Our investigator  didnt recommend upholding  the complaint, so it comes to me 
for a final decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the interest rate
We dealt with Mr Ks complaint about  changes to his interest  rate in 2013. Our rules allow  us 
not to deal with a complaint that weve already considered it, unless theres  material  new 
evidence which has since become available and is likely to affect the outcome. I dont think 
Mr K has given  us any material new evidence which would affect the outcome  of the 
complaint he made in 2013, and so Im not going to consider  those matters  again.
Ref: DRN85020142Since 2013, Mr Ks mortgage has been on MASs standard variable rate (SVR) throughout, 
except that since  2014 an additional  1% has been added to the interest rate to reflect  the 
unauthorised letting.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ks mortgage  say that it could be transferred to another 
lender  to MAS  and that if there was a transfer, the new lenders SVR would apply  instead  
of the old lenders. So Mr K is on the right rate.
The terms also say that MAS can change the SVR from time to time, for various reasons. 
One of those reasons is to take account  of changes  in the Bank of England base rate, and it 
was for that reason  that the SVR changed in 2016,  2017, and 2018. 
Mr K isnt subject to an early repayment  charge, so theres nothing in the terms and 
conditions of his mortgage that would prevent him moving it elsewhere if he was unhappy 
with the rate  and indeed  hes told us that he believes he would  have been  able some  time 
ago but for this complaint.  
I dont think MAS have treated Mr K unfairly because hes on the SVR,  or in the way the 
SVR has been  set and changed since 2013.
the consent to let
This is a residential mortgage. Its not designed  for properties that are let out, and the terms 
and conditions require  Mr K to live in it. The terms and conditions  also allow MAS to issue  a 
tariff of fees and charges  that are applicable  from time to time.
The tariff says:
Letting administration fee Charged  when you make an application to let your 
property. To reflect the additional risk of having  tenants residing at the property, we 
will also increase the rate of interest payable on your mortgage account  by 1%
In fact, MAS  only added  the 1% interest  rate when it refused to renew the consent to let  it 
didnt charge it when  letting  was agreed.
A residential  mortgage   where the borrower must  live in the property  presents different 
risks to a buy to let mortgage. When the original  lender agreed to lend Mr K the money, and 
set the interest  rate, it worked on the assumption  that Mr D would live in the property for the 
duration of the mortgage. MAS  took it over on the same basis. If it knew  that he wouldnt be 
living in the property, the original lender wouldnt  have offered the mortgage at all, or would 
have offered a buy to let mortgage instead.
In general, buy to let mortgages are riskier than residential ones.  The borrower doesnt live 
in the property. A third party, who may not take the same care with it as the owner, does. 
Repayment of the mortgage can be dependent on payment of rent. There are other factors 
as well.
Its not unreasonable for MAS to say that this is intended to be a residential  mortgage; that 
by renting out the property Mr D is in breach of the mortgage; as a result MAS faces different 
risks; and so MAS can alter the interest  rate.
Ref: DRN85020143In dealing with this complaint, Im required to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. As part of that, Ive taken  into account the terms of the mortgage.  And 
Ive taken into account what the law says about contract terms that increase  the costs  
charged when  theres a breach of the terms and conditions.
I dont think its necessary for MAS  to show, in individual  cases,  that there are specific risks 
or costs or that its only allowed to take those into account. Rather,  whats  required is that it 
can show that theres a potential detriment to it associated with the breach of the terms, and 
that the resulting cost increase isnt disproportionate.
The contract and tariff allows MAS to impose 1%, and in this case  its chosen only to add 1% 
to the interest  rate chargeable  where it doesnt  give permission for letting. I dont think thats 
out of proportion with the impact an unauthorised letting can have, and I dont think Mr K was 
treated unfairly  as a result. 
Nor do I think it was unfair for MAS to add a requirement that the rental be above a certain  
level before  it would renew the consent. Where,  as here, the mortgage payments are 
dependent on the rent, its not unreasonable for MAS to want to be sure the rents enough to 
pay the mortgage. As there are additional  costs associated with letting a property  which 
may include repairs, rent arrears, periods without tenants, and letting agent and legal fees  
its also reasonable for it to be expect the rent to be higher than the mortgage.  This is 
something thats standard for buy to let mortgages  and thats, in effect, what Mr K is asking 
MAS to give him. If the rent isnt enough  to cover the mortgage and additional expenses, 
theres extra risk to MAS  that the mortgage  wont be paid. Its reflected that risk in the higher 
interest it charged.
Taking everything into account,  therefore, I dont think  MAS  has treated Mr K unfairly. Its 
charging him an interest rate that reflects both the terms and conditions of his mortgage and 
the extra risk to MAS because the propertys  rented  out without agreement  and without 
enough rent to pay the mortgage. I dont therefore  think it would be fair to uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8502014