K822xcomplaint
Ms D, on behalf of Mr T, is unhappy with the increases in premiums on Mr Ts home 
buildings and contents insurance policy with St Andrews Insurance  Plc. The policy  included  
cover for accidental damage for buildings and contents, and legal expenses cover. 
background 
Mr Ts insurance  policy with St Andrews started  in 2010. It initially  cost £313 for the year. 
The next year, 2011, Mr Ts insurance cost £338.  
By 2018 the policy cost £955  for the year.  In 2019,  the renewal quote was for £875. At this 
time, Ms D became aware of what Mr T was paying  and thought  this was high. She looked 
on comparison websites and found  the cheapest policy available was from St Andrews, but 
cost just £193, with £50 cashback.
Ms D feels  that St Andrews has taken advantage of an elderly  person who was unable  to go 
online to shop around. She is also unhappy that St Andrews  wrote directly to Mr T in 
response to the complaint and sent him a cheque for £25 in recognition of the delay in its 
response. Ms D thinks that was underhand and intended to settle the matter  if Mr T had 
cashed the cheque.  He didnt do so and Ms D contacted us.
Following our involvement, St Andrews made an offer of settlement. It said that, since it 
initially replied to the complaint, it had reviewed its pricing structure for Mr Ts policy.  Applied 
retrospectively, this meant  Mr T had paid more in 2018 than St Andrews would  expect. As 
such, St Andrews offered to refund  the difference between what Mr T paid and what  he 
shouldve paid (a refund of £141.71), plus interest  for the time he was without that money. It 
also offered an additional  payment of £100  in recognition of any distress  and inconvenience 
caused. 
Our investigator thought this offer was a fair way to resolve the complaint. Ms D and Mr T 
disagreed, so Ive been asked to make  a decision. 
Ms D specifically made the following points:
Mr T accepts he didnt  have to accept the renewal premiums  but says he doesnt  use 
computers and was unaware of price comparison websites. He trusted that he was 
being given a fair price as a loyal customer. 
The renewal notices  indicated that Mr T benefitted from a 40% no claims discount, 
which either was a blatant lie or just makes the amounts charged even more  
excessive.
For the area Mr T lives and the type of property he was insuring, every premium from 
2015 onwards  was excessive as shown by prices paid by friends and neighbours 
who use price comparison  websites. 
How could St Andrews come up with such drastically different prices in 2019  - £875  
for Mr Ts renewal and £193  with £50 cashback via a price comparison website?
my findings
Ref: DRN84906262Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether St Andrews has treated Mr T 
fairly throughout the period he held its insurance  policy.
If I find that St Andrews  hasnt treated Mr T fairly,  I will look to see what compensation  would 
be fair and, in this case, whether I think what St Andrews has offered is fair. In this case,  I 
think it is. I appreciate that Ms D and Mr T will be disappointed  with this, and Ill explain my 
reasons.
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, it should have  taken care to make sure it treated that consumer fairly. In this case,  
Mr T didnt  engage with the cost of his policy until 2019 with Ms Ds help. So, I think  that St 
Andrews shouldve taken  care to ensure it didnt take advantage of the Mr Ts behaviour by 
increasing his premiums just because  he didnt engage with the cost.
In 2010, when Mr T took out his policy, there was an introductory discount. This isnt 
uncommon and policies may well initially be priced lower  to attract  new customers. I dont 
think its unfair for an insurer to seek to recoup  that cost over the subsequent years.
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer  thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly   theres nothing wrong  with this. Sometimes insurers introduce  new 
policies, as St Andrews  did in 2016,  which is the policy  Ms D obtained a quote  for on a 
comparison website. But St Andrews was under no obligation to proactively switch Mr T to 
the newer policy or invite him to request  a quote. 
St Andrews  has provided us information  to show how it set the price of Mr Ts policy. And 
Im satisfied that it applied  that pricing  structure to everyone who had this policy.  I cant  
share this information  with Mr T, because it is commercially sensitive. But Im satisfied that 
the way St Andrews  set the price  reflected its view of the risk of insuring Mr Ts house  under 
this policy  and, amongst  other things, its view of likely future claims. I dont think  that is 
unreasonable.
However, the information does show that St Andrews didnt apply its current  pricing 
structure to Mr T properly in 2018  which means  he paid more than he shouldve done.  So, 
St Andrews  offer of settlement seeks to put this right. And its offer is in line with what I 
wouldve told St Andrews  to do if it had made no offer of settlement.  
In 2019, Ms D was able find insurance  much cheaper for Mr T  and the cheapest  policy she 
found was from St Andrews. So, I can fully understand why they would think  the price  Mr T 
paid for his insurance over the years was unfair. But, as well as what Ive said above, there 
are a number of reasons why I dont think that is the case. 
Firstly, the price customers are quoted for insurance  depends  on many things, including  
each individual  insurers appetite for new business  and how competitive the home  insurance  
Ref: DRN84906263market is at that time. So, prices obtained  on one day may be very different to the prices  
obtained on another, let alone  years  apart.  
Prices quoted for new business tend to include  discounts intended  to attract  new customers.  
This means  new customers can be paying far less than the true cost of providing the 
insurance. Insurers would hope to retain new customers and recoup that discount over 
subsequent years. So, Id generally expect  the price for a new business quote to be lower  
than that for a renewal quote.  
Insurers have different pricing structures for different policies. The policy  Mr T has 
complained about is an older policy which he took out in 2010. The quote  obtained  in 2019 
was for a newer  policy that St Andrews has only offered since 2016. It has differing levels of 
cover, excesses and terms  and conditions. All of which can affect the price charged.  This 
means that, although  it is the same in the eye of the customer because  they are both home 
buildings and contents policies, it is not a like-for-like comparison.
In addition, policies  sold through  different sales channels  (for example, online, over the 
phone or through a broker) tend to be priced differently. This reflects the different costs of 
each sales channel, as well as any commission  that may be payable  to intermediaries, such  
as a broker or price  comparison website.  Generally  speaking, taking a policy over the 
internet is likely to cost less than other  sales routes. And it seems unlikely that Mr Ts original 
policy was taken out online given he doesnt use computers. 
As well as this, the makeup of the group of customers that are covered by a policy  can mean 
an insurer has to charge more  for example, if the group of customers covered tend to 
make more claims or live in areas at greater risk of damage from perils such  as theft, flood 
or storm.  So, even for two different policies offered by the same  insurer, you can see very 
different prices, as Ms D and Mr T have experienced here.  So, I think looking  at St Andrews 
pricing structure for his specific policy is a fairer way to decide this compliant than comparing 
two different policies sold through  different sales routes many years apart.
On the point about the no claims discount,  I can see that the no claims discount was 40% 
only from 2015 onwards.  In the years before that it was gradually  increasing to reach that 
level, which was the maximum discount  available. The discount  would be applied on the 
base premiums for buildings and contents, not on the whole premium, which included legal 
expenses cover and insurance premium  tax. Nevertheless, for the reasons Ive stated 
above, I dont  think a higher price relative to other policies inherently indicates  that the 
pricing was unfair. 
On Ms Ds point about the £25 cheque that was sent directly  to Mr T when St Andrews 
responded to the complaint, I dont think that was unreasonable. St Andrews recorded that 
Mr T had given  it temporary permission to speak to Ms D about the complaint. But that no 
permanent support was required. 
It doesnt appear there was any instruction to St Andrews  to correspond directly  with Ms D 
rather than Mr T. So, I dont think it wouldve  been right for St Andrews to do so. The £25 
cheque was clearly  described in the accompanying letter as being  in recognition of the delay 
in St Andrews responding to the complaint. And while Ms D thinks  that cashing the cheque 
would have created  a binding acceptance  in settlement of the complaint, that is not the case. 
Mr T couldve cashed the cheque and still brought  the complaint to this service. 
Ref: DRN84906264Overall, I think that St Andrews offer of settlement is a fair and reasonable way to resolve  
this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided that St Andrews  Insurance  Plcs offer of settlement is a 
fair and reasonable way to resolve  this complaint. 
To put things right, if it hasnt done  so already, St Andrews Insurance Plc should:
Pay a refund of premiums to Mr T of £141.71.
Pay interest on the above for the time Mr T was without  that money, at a rate of 8% 
simple per year.  
Pay Mr T an additional  amount of £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires St Andrews Insurance Plc to take off tax from this 
interest. St Andrews must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it's taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8490626