K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mr and Mrs T say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them the PPI. The policy covered 
Mr T for accident,  sickness  and unemployment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen some of the paperwork  from the sale. On Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage  
application theres a section  headed  Payment Protection Insurance. This section 
asks; Do you wish to take advantage of the Societys very competitive Payment 
Protection Insurance Policy? (Yes or No). 
Next to this statement is a handwritten Yes and the option for accident, illness  and 
unemployment has been selected when  there  was also an option for accident  and 
illness only. A specific level of cover has also been  selected. And Mr and Mrs T have 
signed the mortgage application form to confirm they agree with what  it says.
Mr and Mrs T have  said that the optionality  of the PPI wasnt  made clear, but I think 
the choice to say Yes or No to the cover did clearly suggest that it was an optional 
policy. I also note that the form asked a similar question about buildings  and contents  
insurance, with the same  option to say Yes or No to the cover presented, and in 
that case Mr and Mrs T selected No.
Theres also nothing on the application  form to suggest that taking the PPI would 
affect whether  the mortgage was approved  or the interest rate of the mortgage.
So while I cant know exactly what was discussed at the time of the sale,  with 
everything Ive seen, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs T were  made  aware that 
PPI was optional,  and that they chose to take it to cover Mr T. 
Bradford & Bingley  didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it didnt have to 
check that it was right for them. But it did have to make sure they got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But they chose  to take it out to cover Mr T - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based  on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like Mr T was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And while I understand Mr T was entitled to 
some sick pay from his employer, the PPI could have helped cover  their mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months, longer than Mr T has said his full sick pay would have 
lasted. It also would  have meant  any savings Mr and Mrs T had were available for 
other essential expenditure. 
Ref: DRN84326082Given the potential  consequences if Mr and Mrs T were unable  to meet their 
mortgage repayments, I think that they could have found the PPI useful if something  
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Bradford & Bingley doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs T.
But Bradford  & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because : 
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because  Bradford  
& Bingley didnt  tell Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said, including  their comments  about their 
cancellation rights  not being made  clear.  But given that I think Mr and Mrs T chose to take 
the PPI to cover Mr T, I dont think that clearer information about their right to cancel the 
policy would have changed things. So this point doesnt change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bradford & Bingley should also pay back  to 
Mr and Mrs T any extra interest  they paid because  of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra  they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  should also pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8432608