K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr C took out a PPI policy at the same time as he applied for a mortgage in 2000  in one of 
the banks branches. In 2002  Mr C took out a further advance on his mortgage, again  he 
protected his repayments with PPI. The cover  gave him accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover. He paid a monthly  amount  for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr C disagreed so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional, and he had to agree to take it. 
Mr C says it must have been  presented as a condition of the borrowing, he wouldnt 
otherwise have taken  out cover through the bank. I cant  know  what was discussed in the 
meetings but Ive thought  carefully about his comments  and looked at the paperwork from 
the sales. 
Mr C completed  and signed a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate  for the 
PPI on both occasions. And I dont think there  was anything  on the forms that could  
reasonably have led him to believe PPI was mandatory. On his application form for the 
further advance  the options to select or decline  PPI were set out with equal  prominence. 
Mr C didnt tick either option at this stage  I cant know why that was, but as he went on to 
complete the separate PPI application  form I think its most likely he did so knowing he had a 
choice and had decided to take it. 
So, on balance, I think Lloyds made it clear during both sales that the PPI was optional and 
Mr C chose to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances,  I think  that it was. The PPI would have  paid 
out for up to 12 months for all successful  accident,  sickness and unemployment claims  in 
addition to any work benefits.  Mr C told us he owned 1% of the company  he worked for and 
could have sold his shares at any point.  But I dont think thats suitable alternative protection  
 the value wasnt guaranteed and it would have varied. The PPI would have prevented him 
from being forced to sell at a time that could have been financially disadvantageous to him. 
He also told us he bought a second  property in 2000 that he could have sold if he was 
unable to work, and that he did indeed sell later for a substantial profit. But the PPI would 
have meant  Mr C didnt need  to take such an extreme measure whilst not working. Also, its 
most likely this would  not have happened  quickly. Mr C would not have had control over the 
Ref: DRN81064592speed of the sale, and he may not have been  able to access  the money to help with the 
monthly mortgage repayments when needed.
 
He also told us he had a death-in-service benefit  but this wouldnt help with monthly 
mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. Mr C was borrowing quite large sums of 
money over a long period, secured on his home. And the effects of not keeping  up the 
repayments could  have been  serious for him. So, overall, I think the PPI would have been 
useful for Mr C if he was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr C all the information he needed  before  deciding
to buy PPI. I dont know when the costs were first made clear  but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know that the bank pointed  out the main things 
the PPI didnt cover. But Mr C doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the main 
exclusions. So I dont  think better  information about  the PPI wouldve changed  his mind 
about buying PPI.
It follows I dont think Mr C has lost out because of any problems with these sales.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8106459