K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Woolwich) declined  their 
request to extend  the term of their residential  mortgage, and are pursuing legal action to 
repossess the property.
background
In 2001, Mr and Mrs B took out a repayment mortgage with Woolwich  for £150,000  over a 
term of 15 years. In 2004, Barclays switched the mortgage to interest only at Mr and Mrs Bs 
request, and the mortgage remained interest  only until the end of the term  which  was 
November 2016.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  repay the mortgage balance at the end of the term, and asked Woolwich 
for an extension. The outstanding balance at the time was around £92,000. They said that 
they assumed  they could wait until 2022  when Mr B planned to retire  to repay the balance, 
as they hadnt been  sent any updated  mortgage terms when the mortgage was switched to 
interest only. Mr and Mrs B said the switch  was only meant to be temporary,  and Woolwich 
should have switched the mortgage back to repayment. 
Woolwich declined the request for a term extension  until 2022. They said that Mr and Mrs B 
had assets they could  use to repay  the balance  including two other properties and savings, 
as well as the secured  property. They said the original term of the mortgage  of 15 years  
never changed and so the full balance was always due in 2016.  As Woolwich declined  Mr 
and Mrs Bs request,  and in the absence  of any other proposals made, they began  legal 
proceedings to repossess the secured property.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Woolwich about their decision, but Woolwich  didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint  to our service. They said they were due an 
inheritance soon following the sale of a property, which would help them  to repay  the 
mortgage. Our investigator  looked into things, and concluded that in her view Woolwichs  
decision to decline Mr and Mrs Bs request for a term extension  was fair. Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed with the investigators outcome so the complaints been passed  to me to issue a 
decision.
The issue  about  whether or not Woolwich should have switched the mortgage back  to 
repayment has been dealt with previously  by our service as a separate  complaint. So in this 
decision Im only considering whether Woolwichs decision  to decline the request for a term 
extension was a fair one.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B took out this mortgage  on the terms that it would be repaid in November 2016. 
Whilst I appreciate the repayment method changed  during the term of the mortgage,  Ive not 
seen anything to suggest the original length of the mortgage was changed.  
Mr and Mrs B said that in their opinion,  Woolwich had not established the final repayment 
date, so it was always  their intention to repay  the borrowing when Mr B reached  the age of 
70, in 2022. However, I dont consider Woolwich have said or done anything  to give Mr and 
Ref: DRN88122182Mrs B the impression that the final repayment  date was flexible, and cant see that Mr and 
Mrs B have queried the repayment date with Woolwich, which  I would have expected them  
to do if they were unsure. Im satisfied  the original terms  that Mr and Mrs B agreed  to apply, 
and the mortgage was fully repayable  in November 2016.  
Woolwich sent Mr and Mrs B letters in 2013 and 2015, which  stated the mortgage repayment  
date, to ensure  they had a method in place  to repay it in time. So Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B 
were aware of the repayment date, and had enough time prior to the end of the term to 
consider their options and decide a feasible  way to repay the balance.
In 2016 Mr and Mrs B asked Woolwich for a term extension until 2022, which Woolwich  
declined. Woolwich have  sent us information to show that Mr B has a buy to let property, as 
well as savings, which amount to just under  £70,000. Mr B has also told us he owns  a 
property abroad,  which he owns with his sister,  and hes also expecting an inheritance  
following the sale of a property which he expects to receive this year. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Bs told us hed prefer to keep the savings available for emergencies  
and theyre earmarked for other things  I consider the repayment of this mortgage should 
be a priority for Mr and Mrs B. Given the options available to Mr and Mrs B, and the amount 
of time theyve had to realise these assets in order to repay the mortgage balance, Im not 
persuaded Woolwich have been  unfair  when declining their request for a term extension.
Mr B has more  recently told us hed be willing to make a significant  payment towards  the 
balance now, and agree  an arrangement with Woolwich to repay the outstanding amount. 
Mr B needs  to discuss this proposal  directly with Woolwich, as they need the opportunity  to 
consider it. Id expect  Woolwich to consider  this proposal before taking any legal action to 
repossess the property.
my final decision
Considering everything, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8812218