K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA)  managed the 
initial stages  of their claim following an escape of water at their property.
background 
Mr and Mrs S had a home insurance  policy underwritten by RSA. In March 2018 a leak was 
discovered at their property, from a pipe in the loft. The resulting water damage  was 
extensive  affecting all rooms, damaging many items of clothing and electrical goods. They 
made a claim on the policy.
RSA sent out a loss adjuster and drying  specialists  to assess the damage and put together  a 
repair schedule. However, due to the type of ceilings in a number of rooms at the property, 
tests for asbestos had to be carried out before drying could  commence. 
Due to the extent of the damage Mr and Mrs S and their young  baby  had to move out of the 
property straight away. They stayed with friends  and family  while  alternative accommodation 
was arranged by RSAs contractors. It took a while for the contractors to agree an 
appropriate property  with Mr and Mrs S. They moved to alternative accommodation in June 
2018.
At this time, drying of the property still hadnt  commenced, although it had been confirmed as 
free of asbestos  on 20 April. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to RSA.  They said there  had been  unnecessary  delays to the 
drying, which was worsening the condition of the property. Further,  they said there  had been  
a number of occasions where  RSAs contractors had attended the property without informing 
them they were  going  to. And they had experienced difficulties when dealing  with RSAs  
agents who were handling  the repair and replacement of water damaged clothes and 
contents. Finally they were unhappy  with the length of time it had taken to confirm  suitable 
alternative accommodation. 
RSA agreed that there had been delays that had caused additional distress and 
inconvenience. And it said it was prepared to offer compensation. However it said it would 
look at the claim as a whole once complete and offer an amount at that stage. It apologised 
for its contractors attending the property without consent and agreed  this wasnt acceptable.  
RSA also agreed the delay  to drying had been longer than expected but reassured  
Mr and Mrs S that any additional  damage  due to this delay would be covered under the 
policy. Finally  RSA accepted it had taken a while for alternative accommodation to be 
agreed, but confirmed that a disturbance  allowance  was paid during  the time they were  
staying with family.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with the response. They  said the poor management of the claim 
had caused Mr S to develop a medical condition.  They also said it was unsatisfactory  as it 
had not offered compensation  or answered a number of their points. They  brought their 
complaint to this service.
Out investigator advised Mr and Mrs S that since the complaint had been referred to this 
service, RSA had offered  £750 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  up until its final 
Ref: DRN84912242response in June 2018. He said on considering  events up until this date he thought this was 
a reasonable offer.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree that the compensation  was sufficient. They said RSA had 
significantly increased the distress and inconvenience  they experienced by delaying the 
drying process and the alternative  accommodation. They were also unhappy with how RSA 
handled the asbestos as they hadnt been  warned this may be an issue, which  could lead to 
health and safety problems. They asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the circumstances  have caused Mr and Mrs S considerable stress. And it no 
doubt had an impact on many areas of their life. But when deciding on this complaint I have 
looked at the actions  of RSA and its agents. Rather than the impact  of the extensive damage 
caused by the leak itself.  I have done  this by considering how RSA managed  the claim, what  
it got wrong and what it has already done  to put things right.
I have also only considered circumstances up until RSAs final response  was issued in June 
2018.
Mr and Mrs S raised a number of different complaint  points. As this is an informal service  I
havent responded to every one. I have  only addressed what I consider to be the key issues.
However I want to reassure Mr and Mrs S that I have considered all the points raised  when
reaching my decision. I have addressed  them in turn below.
Delays 
Mr and Mrs S raised a claim with RSA at the beginning of March 2018. By June 2018 the 
claim hadnt progressed  as far as I would have expected.  This was, in part, due to the need  
for asbestos testing before drying commenced.  However this testing was completed before 
the end of April.  And drying hadnt started  by the end of June. 
I agree  that this delay is unacceptable  and could have been avoided.  I havent been 
provided with an explanation  for the delay, but from the correspondence Ive seen it appears 
that the contractors  took some time in arranging a date to attend the property. 
I can understand this delay would have caused Mr and Mrs S distress and inconvenience.  
They could see the damage to their property worsening. And had no assurance as to when 
the drying would  commence, aware that this was just the first step of a long process  of 
repairs. 
Further, during  this time they were staying  with family, due to delays in securing appropriate 
alternative accommodation. With the ongoing  stress caused by the claim, and the added 
pressure of looking after a young  baby in someone elses home, I understand why this would 
be a distressing delay.  I can see that RSAs agent were  working  through  this time to find a 
suitable property.  However I agree this could  have been completed  sooner.
Mr S has explained that he developed a medical  condition during this time.  He says that this 
was due to the stress caused by RSA. Although I dont doubt that the ongoing claim  would 
Ref: DRN84912243have caused additional stress and this may have impacted Mr S health,  it isnt possible to 
know whether it was the main cause for his illness. Having said that, I agree that being 
unwell would  have  made the situation  more stressful for Mr S and his family.
Asbestos
Mr and Mrs S have  also raised concerns about how RSAs agents handled the possibility of 
asbestos. They say they werent  informed of this possibility from the outset and were given 
no guidance about precautions they should take. 
I can see that the possibility of asbestos wasnt raised with Mr and Mrs S until a few weeks  
into the claim. I agree this would have  been distressing, as it meant the drying process  
would take longer than initially predicted. However  asbestos testing  isnt always necessary. 
It usually is where the house was built during a certain period or specific materials  are 
identified in the walls and ceilings. I therefore  think its likely that RSA didnt identify the need 
for asbestos testing until its agents attended the site. So although I appreciate this 
unexpected delay would be distressing, I think RSA identified the need for this in  reasonable 
time.
I understand Mr and Mrs S feel they werent given specific guidance  about  how to manage 
the risk of asbestos  being present in the ceilings, in order to mitigate  any health and safety 
issues. Although I appreciate their concern, at the time this risk was identified they were no 
longer living  in the property so the risk would have been low. I therefore dont think  any 
additional precautions would have  been  necessary. I am pleased to see that when the tests  
came back,  no asbestos was identified.
Damage to clothes and contents
Due to the extensive damage caused  by the escape  of water, a number of items of clothing 
and contents were damaged and needed to be replaced or repaired. Mr and Mrs S say that 
RSAs agents  made  this process very difficult and it required a lot of input from them which  
caused additional stress.  
Having looked  at the information provided by the agents I can see that it was a very difficult  
process. Long lists of items were provided without much information  to identify which  was 
which. Further, there were some items returned as not repairable rather  than just being 
replaced or cash settled.  
However the claim involved a large  amount of damaged items, so this would always be a 
challenge for the agents and Mr and Mrs S. Although I agree RSAs agents could have been  
more helpful at times, I understand this part of the claim is now settled. And I am glad this 
has now been resolved.
Putting things  right
I can see that this has been a stressful  time for Mr and Mrs S. The amount of damage  that 
has been caused to their property and possessions has led to a long drawn  out process. 
Further, RSA has caused additional delays that has caused further distress and 
inconvenience for Mr and Mrs and their family. 
Ref: DRN84912244RSA has offered £750 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused from the beginning of the claim in March 2018 until the end of June.  This is in line 
with what I would recommend in these circumstances, so I agree with this offer. I understand 
there have  been  other developments since this date, so should Mr and Mrs S feel it 
necessary they could  raise an additional  complaint with RSA to address any further 
concerns.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I agree Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs offer of £750 
compensation is fair and reasonable and therefore require it to pay Mr and Mrs S this 
amount, if it hasnt done so already. This should be paid within  28 days  of us telling them  
that Mr and Mrs S accept my final decision.  If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc pay later 
than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision  to the 
date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8491224