K820x#14complaint
Mr B doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation offers its made to reduce debt from which he was 
discharged when his protected trust deed came  to an end.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 11October 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I thought it 
was fair for RBS to use Mr Bs PPI compensation to reduce the amount he owed and didnt 
repay when  his trust deed came  to an end.
Neither Mr B nor RBS had anything to add to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence they wished to provide following my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change my mind  about the conclusions I reached in 
it. I still think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the amount Mr B owed 
and didnt repay when his trust deed came to an end.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think Its fair for 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mr Bs compensation for the mis-sold  PPI to reduce 
the amount he owed  and didnt repay when his trust deed came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86300002copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation offers its made to reduce debt from which he was 
discharged when his protected trust deed came  to an end.
Mr B has also told us about other things which he says that RBS has done in connection 
with his past dealings with the bank that hes not happy about. But these things dont form 
part of this complaint.  If Mr B wants to complain about any of these things hed need to 
complain to RBS about them in the first instance.
background
RBS sold Mr B PPI policies to protect the repayments on two loans he had with it. Mr B 
complained to RBS that the policies  had been mis-sold to him. RBS upheld his complaint. 
It offered  to refund the PPI premiums and the extra interest on these that Mr B had paid to 
date on these policies,  together  with simple interest to compensate him for the time hed 
been out of pocket. The total amount offered was £2,699.29.
However, in 2012,  Mr B had granted a trust deed  - which became a protected  trust deed - for 
his creditors. This is an alternative in Scotland to bankruptcy (called sequestration there). 
It is a legally-binding agreement between a consumer  and their creditors, which is 
administered by a trustee.
When the protected trust deed started, RBS says Mr B had agreed  debts to RBS totalling  
£9,552.20. It says it received dividends totalling  £46.20 by the time the trust deed ended. 
This meant that the amount of £9,506.00 was left unrecovered then.
RBS says that, following acceptance  by Mr B of its PPI mis-sale compensation offers, it used 
these amounts in partial payment of the monies it hadnt fully recovered when Mr Bs 
protected trust deed  ended  in 2016. But Mr B doesnt think  that the compensation hes been 
offered on the two PPI policies he took out should be used in this way. He says that, as the 
protected trust deed  has now ended, he doesnt  still owe any money to RBS.  And so he 
thinks the PPI compensation should be paid directly  to him.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Mr Bs complaint  should be upheld. He thought that it was 
fair in these circumstances for RBS to use the compensation  offers partially to offset the 
debts to it which were still unpaid when the protected trust deed was ended. Mr B disagreed  
with the adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed to me.
Ref: DRN86300003my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Im required  by DISP 3.6.4 R of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
As RBS has upheld Mr Bs PPI mis-sale complaints,  in this provisional  decision Ive just looked at 
whether what  its done to put things right is fair and reasonable. So what  I need to decide  is whether  
its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Mr Bs PPI compensation offers  to reduce  the much higher 
amount of debt which he wasnt required  to repay to it after his protected trust deed was closed.
And in this case the relevant  law I need to take account of is Scots law. In recent years thereve been 
a number of cases looking  at what happens  to PPI compensation after a trust deed has come to an 
end. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust 
which meant that any unrealised assets  were returned to the debtor  including the PPI compensation  
that no one had known about at the time.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid 
when the trust deed came  to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case  meant RBS had, in 
effect, agreed that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive  the debt to offset the 
PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision, so the outcome may change).
So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then RBS could  not, in court, successfully argue  for set-off in this case.
But I must apply an over-arching  test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of 
Mr Bs complaint. And I simply dont think it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mr Bs PPI compensation  
directly to him when he borrowed a great deal more money from RBS which wont ever now be 
repaid. The fact that Mr Bs protected trust deed had come  to an end before these  offers  of PPI 
compensation were  made  doesnt, in my opinion, make a difference to what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances here. I dont think anyone would  think it fair to require  RBS to repay  the PPI 
compensation directly  to Mr B when  he doesnt now need to pay back  to RBS a much bigger amount 
which he borrowed.
So it follows from what Ive said that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation  its offered to 
reduce the outstanding  debt which wont now ever be repaid to RBS by Mr B following  the closure of 
his protected trust deed.
Ref: DRN86300004Finally, Ive considered  whether Mr Bs complaint should be dismissed by this service  without 
considering its merits. This is on the basis that the PPI compensation  offers RBS has made to him 
were on the basis of a full and final settlement.  And it appears that Mr B signed  to accept these 
offers in April 2017.
But I think that its most likely that Mr Bs acceptance of these offers  would have been on the basis 
that he thought he was entitled to have this compensation paid directly to him, because his former 
debts had been extinguished when  the trust deed was completed.  Given  the uncertainty  about the 
legal position regarding pre-existing debts after a trust deed  had ended, I dont think RBSs offers  
made its position sufficiently clear. And so I dont think it would be appropriate to dismiss the case  on 
that basis.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont currently think that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.  
Im minded to decide that its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Bs compensation  for 
the PPI policies it mis-sold  to him to reduce  the amount he owed and didnt repay  when his trust deed 
came to an end.  So based on what Ive seen so far I dont plan to make a further award.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8630000