K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  by 
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (St Andrews)  has accepted responsibility for this complaint. So to 
keep things simple, in this decision Ill just refer to St Andrews.
background
Mrs B took out a credit card in 2006. During  a phone call to activate her card she was sold a 
monthly premium PPI policy. The policy would pay off 10% of the monthly  balance  on 
Mrs Bs card for up to 12 months if she couldnt work  because  of an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. It also gave her life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mrs B didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website,  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding Mrs Bs case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Theres no recording now available of the call when  this PPI was sold to Mrs B. And there  
arent any written notes of what was said on the call either. This isnt that surprising  given the 
call took place a long time ago - businesses arent required to keep such  records over these 
timescales. But this means  I need  to decide what I think is most likely  to have happened 
then, taking account of all the information  which is available to me  including  what  Mrs B 
says she remembers about  it herself.
Mrs B says she didnt choose to take PPI when  she was initially  applying for her card.  And 
she cant recall any conversation about  PPI during the subsequent card activation  call with 
the business. But shes sure that she wouldnt have agreed to take the PPI if she had been  
asked if she wanted  it during  this call. However, I do have to bear in mind that memories of 
what was said in such calls do tend to fade with time.
St Andrews  has provided a copy of the script which it says its telephone representatives 
should have followed  at this time for a card activation call of this type. In my view, this script 
makes it clear enough to customers  that they dont  have  to buy PPI. In particular, it prompts 
the adviser to ask whether the customer wants to go ahead, and to get their specific  
agreement. So I think that, if this script was followed as it should have been by the 
representative who spoke  to Mrs B, she would have  understood  she was being asked 
whether or not she wanted the policy, knowing she had a choice. And as this call would have 
taken place after shed  already been  approved for her card,  I dont think she would have 
thought she needed to take the PPI to get her card application agreed.
It is, of course, possible that the telephone representative who spoke to Mrs B didnt stick to 
the script  in the way she was expected to do. But I dont think  it would be fair for me to rely 
Ref: DRN85023312solely on the fact that Mrs B doesnt now remember any discussion  of PPI on the call, to 
decide that the representative sold her PPI without first discussing it with her and obtaining 
her agreement to taking it. On balance,  I think its more  likely that the representative did 
make it clear  to Mrs B that the PPI was optional and she actively agreed  to take it. But I can 
completely understand why Mrs B isnt able to recall  this now.
St Andrews  says that this was an advised  sale. And Ive taken this to be the case because 
this means it needed to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Mrs B. I cant  be sure 
what steps St Andrews  took to do this. But from what  I know  about her circumstances at the 
time, I cant see any reason why the policy wouldnt have been  suitable. I say this because:
Mrs B appears to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs B says she didnt need PPI cover because she was eligible for sick pay from her 
employer and could  have relied  on her parents for financial support  in need. She also 
says that she was living with her parents  at the time and so didnt have any major 
outgoings or other financial  commitments.  
But this policy would  have  paid out in addition to any other  means she might  have had 
for making  her card repayments and for a lot longer than her sick pay would have lasted. 
And I think that having insurance that specifically covered the repayments on her credit 
card account  is more secure  than relying  on relatives  to do this. So I still think  that she 
would have thought the policy  was of value to her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs B. And as the premiums were 
paid monthly, it could be cancelled if it no longer met her needs.
St Andrews  also needed  to give Mrs B enough information for her to decide whether she 
wanted to take the PPI policy. I think its likely that the information she was given wasnt  as 
good as it could have been.  But for much  the same reasons that I dont  think  the policy  was 
unsuitable for Mrs B, I dont think that better information would have changed  her mind about 
taking it. I think she would  have  thought  it gave  her useful benefits  at an affordable  price.
So I dont  think that Mrs B has lost out by anything that St Andrews may have done wrong 
when it sold her this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about all the points  which  Mrs B has made  in responding to our 
adjudicators view. But none of these have changed  my mind about not upholding this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN85023313my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8502331