K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
mortgage. Miss S and Mrs S say Lloyds  Bank  PLC, Cheltenham and Gloucester at the time, 
mis-sold them the PPI. 
Miss S and Mrs S took out their mortgage and PPI in 2004.  Then  in 2007 they took out a 
further advance  and PPI to cover this additional borrowing. Ive considered  what  happened 
as well as Miss S and Mrs Ss circumstances on both occasions in this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss S and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided they werent mis-sold PPI in 2004  or 2007 and Ill explain why. 
Miss S and Mrs S say the sales  person was pushy  and told them had to take out the cover. 
Ive considered this but Ive also looked at the evidence available from 2004 and 2007  to 
make a decision on what I think is more  likely  to have happened. 
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  which was completed and signed  in 2004. This 
included a section  for PPI where there is a tick in the box to show  Miss S and Mrs S were  
interested in taking out the cover. But there was also an option  to tick another  box to say 
they werent interested in the cover.  Ive also seen a separate  PPI application form which 
records that the policy was chosen to cover Miss S only. Miss S and Mrs S signed both 
these forms  to consent to the information contained within them.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the call notes  from the sale in 2007  which  suggests the PPI 
was recommended to Miss S and Mrs S and that they accepted the recommendation over 
the phone. In addition  Ive seen a copy of a separate PPI application form which  again 
recorded that the increased cover was to be taken out in Miss Ss name  only. This was 
signed by both Miss S and Mrs S  so I think it reflects what they wanted at the time. 
Miss S and Mrs S say that although  they signed  the documents to consent to the cover, they 
did this because they were told they had to, and not because they wanted PPI. But Ive not 
seen any evidence to support what  Miss S and Mrs S have said,  and while  I think  what  
theyve said are their honest  recollections  of the sale, these events took place more than 10 
years ago  which  is something  I have  to keep in mind. Ive also that Lloyds says it advised 
Miss S and Mrs S to take out the PPI on both occasions, so I think its likely Lloyds 
encouraged them to take out PPI  based  on their circumstances  at the time,  but thats 
different to saying they have to take out PPI.
Based on everything  Ive seen and been told, I think its likely  Lloyds made  it clear  that Mr S 
and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss S and Mrs S on both occasions so it had to check  that 
the PPI was right for Miss S (as the insured party)  and based on what Ive seen of her 
Ref: DRN89605522circumstances from 2004 and 2007,  I think that it was. Miss S says she might have been 
diagnosed with a medical condition by the time the PPI was sold to her in 2007.  We asked 
for confirmation about this and for more details about this condition. But at the time of writing 
this information  has not been supplied, so Ive not been able to rely on this information and 
Ive made  my decision on the basis that Im not persuaded that Miss S had a medical 
condition at the time PPI was sold to her in 2007.  So I dont think Miss S was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and, based on what Ive been told about their 
lack of other means  to keep up their repayments,  I think they had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss S and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out in Miss Ss name in both 2004 and 2007 - so 
it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Miss S and Mrs S say the PPI was not fit for purpose because it didnt cover Miss S as 
expected. And Ive seen evidence that Miss S had unsuccessfully tried to make a claim on 
the policy. But as Ive outlined above, Ive not seen  any reason the PPI wasnt  suitable  for 
Miss S in 2004  and 2007. So this doesnt affect  my decision  on whether PPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Miss S and Mrs S some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules  and guidance  dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Miss S and 
Mrs Ss mortgage became a regulated mortgage  before  6 April 2008 they dont apply. So 
Lloyds doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Miss S and Mrs S paid for the PPI they 
had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8960552