K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2005. Ms D says Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
This decision only deals  with PPI sold to Ms D when she completed  a transfer of equity at 
which point the mortgage was solely in her name. Ms D is professionally  represented. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will disappoint Ms D  Ill explain why. 
Ms D says that YBSs advisor told her the PPI would help her chances of getting the 
mortgage as it would be looked  upon  more favourably.  She also says that the advisor 
pressured and manipulated her into taking out this policy, which she did not want, need nor 
ask for. 
YBS have given me a copy of Ms Ds signed 2005 transfer of equity application form. I note 
a selection has been made here for more information about the PPI  equally,  a no box 
couldve been signed. YBS has also given me a separate form, also signed by Ms D, called 
mortgage payment  insurance application  form. Amongst other things, this sets out the 
eligibility criteria  of the policy, the benefit  amount, and a selection to show after how long the 
policy, if claimed upon, would pay out  the excess  period.  
This form also indicates a choice against  accident and sickness cover  only, when there was 
a choice for unemployment cover to be taken out alongside this or unemployment cover  on 
its own. 
Given what Ive seen  here, I think YBS made it clear that Ms D didnt  have to take out the 
PPI and that she chose to take it out. That then brings me onto what Ms D has said about 
feeling pressured and manipulated into taking out the policy.  
I dont know what was exactly said to Ms D at the time of the sale but Ive considered very 
carefully what shes said about what made her feel pressured  including  that she was told 
YBS would look upon her application  more  favourably. For me to uphold her complaint  on 
this point I would have to find that its more likely than not that YBS acted in this way. Ive 
looked very carefully at all the available evidence. But having done so, I simply dont have  
compelling evidence  to say that the advisor  put any unfair pressure  on Ms D. In saying this, 
Ive taken into account that Ms D looks like shes  tailored the cover to her needs given she 
hasnt taken out unemployment  cover. 
YBS have also given  me some paperwork headed Statement of Customer  Needs for 
Mortgage and Insurance.  Having read this, Im satisfied that YBS recommended  the policy  
to Ms D. And I can see that the cover  and its benefit amount were tailored based  on what 
Ms D had told the advisor about her stable work  status and sick pay benefits.  
Ref: DRN81928682As YBS recommended the PPI to Ms D, it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Ms D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. After  all, the mortgage was a big and long term commitment, secured on Ms Ds 
home.
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms D. But YBS will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms D because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms D about that. Because YBS didnt tell Ms D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Ms D and her representatives have said - including what 
theyve said about  getting generous sick pay benefits and redundancy pay. Theyve also 
said Ms D wasnt  made aware  shed  have to be out of work for six months before being able 
to make a claim. But Ive already said that the policy  only gave cover  for accident and 
sickness  not unemployment.  Ive also explained that Ms D tailored the benefit  amount 
when the policy was recommended to her by YBSs  advisor.  
Finally, Ms D has said she wasnt told she could buy PPI from another  provider. But YBS 
was under no duty to do this, and this point doesnt  fit in with what shes  said about not 
wanting this (or any) PPI policy. So these points  dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Ms D any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. YBS should  also pay back to Ms D any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Ms D the extra  she paid each  month  because  the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Ms D 8%* 
simple interest on each payment. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms D can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN81928683my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Ms D any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8192868