K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited  (HICL) havent  repaired her 
motorhome following a claim on her commercial  vehicle  insurance policy.  
background
Miss M runs a business where  she rents out motorhomes. One of her motorhomes was 
damaged when it was being used by a customer.  Because of this she claimed on her 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
HICL reviewed the claim and accepted it. The damage to Miss Ms motorhome was to the 
door frame  which  meant the door no longer  opened or closed properly. It also meant  it 
wasnt watertight and cant be used. Because of the type of vehicle and the damage caused 
to it HICL had difficulty  finding the parts or someone to repair it. So HICL offered Miss M 
cash in lieu (CIL) payment for the repairs. 
Miss M tried contacting multiple  different repairers who said they either couldnt source the 
part or repair a motorhome.  Miss M complained to HICL as she was unable to get her 
motorhome repaired.  She said the CIL payment  wasnt good  enough  and asked HICL to 
repair her motorhome. As HICL couldnt repair it, and the CIL payment wasnt accepted,  they 
offered to buy Miss Ms motorhome for scrap  and pay her the CIL amount. HICL increased  
its offer from £4,100  to £8,600. 
Miss M said this still wasnt good  enough as she would have no motorhome and its market  
value was around £18,000,  so couldnt buy a replacement with the amount offered. As Miss 
M wasnt  happy with HICLs response  she brought her complaint here.  
Our Investigator  reviewed Miss Ms complaint and recommended  it was upheld. She found 
that while HICL  could offer a CIL payment it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to do so here.  
Because of this she recommended  HICL  deem  the motorhome a total loss and pay Miss M 
the market value. HICL disagreed and said theyd met the terms of the policy by offering a 
CIL payment. 
As HICL disagreed  the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms policy covers her for the loss or damage  up to the market value of the motorhome  
immediately before the damage occurred. The policy goes onto say that in the event of a 
claim HICL  will do one of the following: repair the damage; pay Miss M the cost of replacing 
or repairing the damage; or treat the vehicle as a total loss and pay her the market value. 
Ref: DRN84184392By agreeing to the claim  and trying to arrange  the repairs HICL has exercised one of the 
options it has under the terms and conditions of the policy. As HICL were unable  to arrange 
for the repairs to be completed they offered Miss M a CIL payment. Miss M said she would 
accept a CIL payment  if she was able to find someone to repair  the motorhome. Both HICL 
and Miss M have been unable to find someone to repair the motorhome or even supply the 
parts needed for repair. I can see from HICLs internal notes theyve even tried to source  
second hand parts but have been unsuccessful.  
As it appears the parts arent available to repair Miss Ms motorhome I dont think a CIL 
payment would produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this case. I say this because the 
intention of the policy is to cover  Miss M for the loss or damage up to the market value. The 
CIL payment covers  the financial loss to repair the motorhome (if possible),  but the 
motorhome cant be repaired and it cant be used because of the damage. So, Miss Ms loss 
is of the entire motorhome and not just the repair cost. 
HICL have also accepted the motorhome cant  be repaired  and offered to buy it off Miss M 
for scrap. This is usually  what  an insurer would do when a vehicle is deemed a total loss. As 
Miss Ms motorhome cant be repaired  or used Im satisfied  a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this particular case is for HICL to exercise  the remaining option under  the terms and 
conditions. HICL should treat the vehicle  as a total loss and pay Miss M the market value 
immediately before the damage happened, less the excess. Also, as Miss M has been  
without this money HICL  should add 8% simple  interest per year from the date of the 
accident until the date it makes  payment.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Highway Insurance  Company Limited to deem Miss Ms motorhome a total loss and pay her 
the market value immediately before it was damaged, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions. Highway Insurance Company Limited  should also add 8% simple interest to this 
amount from the date of accident  until the date it makes payment1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Highway  Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from the interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken  off. It should also give 
Miss M a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8418439