K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with First 
Response Finance Ltd (FRFL) wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr C entered into a HPA with FRFL to acquire a used car in May 2018. He says that after a 
week the engine  management light (EML) came on and he was told to take the car to a local 
garage. He says issues were found  with the mass air flow, over boosting, an oil leak and a 
leaking radiator. He says he was told the engine  would need to be stripped down to find the 
source of the oil leak. Mr C reported  the results of the assessment to the dealership  and 
says the dealership said parts would  be sent to the local garage for repairs to take place  and 
that Mr C should  pay for the labour costs and it would then reimburse him. 
Mr C says that not all the required  parts were sent to the local garage and so it only carried  
out the repairs it could. Following this, another EML came on which  was linked to the 
injector. Mr C contacted the dealership  but was told his car was no longer covered.  He then 
contacted FRFL and was told to have  the car inspected. He says the inspection reported an 
oil leak, issues  with the suspension and driveshaft, hole in the exhaust and a loud ticking 
noise coming from the engine.  A further  inspection then took place which  confirmed the 
issues raised and Mr C was again  told the engine would need to be stripped. Following this 
FRFL requested an independent inspection  take place. 
Mr C says that the independent inspector test drove  the car for ten minutes and then said it 
was too dangerous to drive further.  He says the inspector concluded the issues with the car 
were caused  by him.
Mr C says that the car was faulty at the point  of supply and that he hasnt been provided  with 
courtesy cars while without his car. He says the issues have meant  he has lost two jobs and 
been caused anxiety and other medical  issues. 
FRFL says that at the time Mr C acquired the car it was over 11 years  old and had been 
driven 85,500  miles. It says Mr C contacted it four months after acquiring the car to say he 
was experiencing issues  and that repairs had been undertaken but the EML was on, there 
was an oil leak and a ticking  noise  could be heard. It says Mr C had been able to drive 
around 7,500 miles at this stage. It says it covered the cost of the car being inspected. 
Issues were identified and it was decided that it would cover the cost of a further 
investigation. This said that the engine had failed  and there were severe oil leaks. The car 
was said not to be driveable.
FRFL says it didnt  have  evidence that the issues with the car were present from the point of 
supply. The independent inspection found that it was likely the car had been modified and 
that it had possibly been driven very hard.  The inspector concluded that the issues  with the 
car would not have  been present at the point of supply. 
Given the inspection  results, FRFL says it isnt liable for the issues  with the car as there was 
no evidence to say they were  present  at the point of supply.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He thought  the issues  with the car were developing at 
the point of supply. He said that there were signs only two weeks into the agreement that 
there were issues with the car. He noted  that following the first repair  the EML came  on 
Ref: DRN89677032again and the same code was recorded. He thought  the fair resolution to this complaint was 
for the car to be collected and Mr Cs agreement  be ended with nothing  further owing. He 
thought Mr C should be refunded for the time he was without his car due to repairs and 
investigation as well as any payments  made from 20 September from which  point the car 
was no longer being used. He also recommended that Mr C be paid £250  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  he had been caused. 
FRFL didnt accept our investigators  view.  It provided further clarification from the 
independent inspector in regard to possible issues due to the overboost.  This said that the 
overboost puts extra strain on components and can be caused by faults  but also by external 
tampering or modification. The inspector  said the driver would be aware of the overboosting 
and he believed the car had been driven  hard for some time and didnt think the car was 
faulty at the point of supply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C entered into a HPA to acquire  a used car. Under the regulations,  specifically relevant is 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015, FRFL can be held liable if the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car. In this case the car was 11 years old and had been driven over 
85,000 miles at the point of acquisition.
Mr Cs car has a number of faults  which have been  confirmed in a number of different 
inspections. Since September 2018, the car hasnt been driveable. Based on this there is no 
dispute that there are major issues with the car. However, for FRFL to be liable for these I 
have to be satisfied  that the issues with the car were present or developing  at the point  of 
supply meaning  that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at that time.
The independent inspection report took place in October 2018. While this confirmed a 
number of the issues with the car it also raised concerns about modifications  and how the 
car had been  driven. The inspector said that the noise  from the engine  was very noticeable 
and that had this been  present  at the point  of supply it would have been  noted  at that time. 
The inspector said the car couldnt  have  been  driven over 7,000 miles with this fault.  The 
inspector thought the issues with the car had developed after Mr C had acquired  it.
While I note the comments  made by the independent inspector I have also considered the 
other technical information that has been provided in this case.  The car passed its MOT in 
April 2018 when the mileage was recorded  as around 85,400. Mr C then acquired  the car in 
mid May 2018.  It was investigated shortly  after acquisition and an invoice dated  2 June 2018 
records a number of issues  with the car. At this time the mileage was recorded as around  
86,900 suggesting Mr C had driven  the car around 1,500 miles. At this time fault codes were 
identified linked to the mass air flow and the overboost. Issues were also identified with the 
system being too rich and the radiator leaking. Given  when these  issues were identified  and 
the mileage that had been driven I find it reasonable to accept that these issues  were 
present or developing at the point  of supply.
I note that repairs  were undertaken but these didnt fully resolve all issues  as Mr C reported 
the EML coming  on again. Mr C raised this with FRFL  in September 2018  and also noted the 
oil leak and the noise  coming from the engine. I find that FRFL acted reasonably at this time 
Ref: DRN89677033by covering the costs of the investigation  and I also accept that due to the results  more than 
one investigation  was needed. However  as Mr C was without his car at this time and I 
understand a courtesy car wasnt provided I find it reasonable that he is refunded  any 
payment relating to the time he was without  the car.
The investigations in September, prior to the final independent inspection, noted the oil leak, 
issues of mis-firing,  the noise from the engine and also the overboost.  Given the overboost  
had been identified and the code removed in June  and this was again recorded in 
September with the same  fault code, it is reasonable to accept this was an ongoing issue  
that hadnt been resolved  at the first repair  attempt.  The independent inspector said that the 
overboost can put strain on the cars components. While I note he also raised concerns 
about modifications there is nothing to confirm these  took place and, even if the car was 
modified, there is nothing  to suggest this happened  during Mr Cs time with the car. Mr C has 
said he didnt modify  the car and based  on the information provided, the time he had the car, 
and the reports  carried out during this time, I find, on balance  it more likely than not that 
Mr C didnt modify  the car.
Therefore I find that issues with the overboost cannot be reasonably attributed  to Mr C. I do 
accept the comments  about the car being  driven  with a known oil leak but I also accept that 
it would  be reasonable for Mr C to expect repairs to be carried out once issues  were 
identified. 
I appreciate the comments made about Mr C being  able to drive the car over 7,000 miles but 
given when the first issues arose I find that it more  likely than not that the car had faults that 
were present  or developing at the point of supply and that the car wasnt sufficiently durable. 
Repairs were attempted and these didnt  fully resolve the issues, specifically the overboost, 
and further issues  arose.  I do not have enough information to say what  exactly caused the 
engine failure  but based  on the information  I have I find it reasonable to accept that this 
could have been developing at the point of acquisition. This combined with the issues that 
were identified in June and not fully resolved supports my conclusion that, on balance, the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr C did have reasonable use of the car while it wasnt in for investigation up to September  
2018. Therefore  I find he should be liable for the payments due until 20 September  2018.  
However payments  for any periods while the car was in for investigation or repair  should  be 
refunded. Any payment  after this date should  also be refunded.
Mr C has provided evidence  of the costs  he has incurred while being without his car. While  I 
understand he has had to source alternative transport I do not find it fair that he is both 
refunded the payments made (or no longer liable for these if they werent paid) and also 
refunded his travel costs.  Therefore  I find my redress in regard to refunded payments is 
sufficient and FRFL isnt required to refund Mr C his other transport costs.
Mr C was caused inconvenience by having to have his car inspected on a number of 
occasions and I agree with our investigator that he should be paid £250 because  of this.
Ref: DRN89677034my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. First Response Finance Ltd should:
1.collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
2.cancel the HPA with nothing further  owing 
3.refund  the deposit paid by Mr C (HPA records this as £400);
4.refund  payments made by Mr C for times he was without his car (for investigation  
and repair) evidence  to be provided;
5.refund  any payments  made from 20 September 2018; 
6.pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience Mr C has suffered 
7.remove any adverse information  regarding this HPA from Mr Cs credit  file.
Items 3, 4 and 5 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8967703