K821x#15Complaint
Ms B complains  that The Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) hasnt  dealt  with her claim for an escape 
of water in her flat. Ms B claimed through a property  owners buildings  insurance  policy, 
taken out by the management company of the building that contains her flat.
All references to Lloyds  include their agents.
Background
Ms B owns a flat, which she rents out. In January 2017, the kitchen ceiling in her flat 
collapsed due to a leak from the flat above. Ms B submitted a claim for the repair work, 
which Lloyds accepted. It agreed  to cash settle the claim and Ms B arranged  for her own 
contractor to complete  the work.
Ms B contacted Lloyds again in April 2017.  She said her builder had advised the ceiling in 
the living room  was at risk of collapsing due to water leaking from the flat above. The builder  
recommended the ceiling be replaced. Ms B asked Lloyds if this second claim could be 
added to the original claim. Ms B also made  a claim for loss of rent as her tenant  moved  out 
due to the flat being uninhabitable.
Ms B says she was told by Lloyds that the second claim  could be added  to her original claim, 
so she instructed her builder to repair the living room ceiling as well. In July 2017, Ms B 
noticed water leaking  into the newly replaced  ceiling and told Lloyds. Lloyds loss adjuster 
visited the flat to inspect  the damage and check the repairs to the kitchen.
Lloyds declined Ms Bs claim  for the living room ceiling as it said the damage was because  
of long standing  maintenance  issues, which werent  covered  under  the policy.  It also 
reduced the cash settlement for the kitchen claim as it said the repairs  done  werent  in line 
with the original invoice. Ms B says this was due to issues  with her contractor gaining  access 
to the property, which delayed repairs.
Lloyds also queried  the dates that Ms B was claiming for loss of rent and asked for further 
evidence to support  her claim.
Ms B complained to Lloyds about the delays to her claim. She felt that the claim for her 
kitchen and living room  should be settled in full. And she felt that she had provided enough 
evidence to support  her loss of rent claim. Lloyds said it couldnt assist  Ms B any further with 
her claim.
Ms B then complained to our service. Our investigator looked at everything and 
recommended the complaint be upheld. She found  that Lloyds had failed by not dealing with 
the full cost of Ms Bs claim, hadnt  reimbursed  her for the loss of rent, and hadnt dealt with 
the claim in a timely manner. She also found that it was fair for Ms B to get her own builder 
to do the repairs  and determined the quotes  for this were reasonable. She recommended 
Lloyds reimburse Ms B for the full cost of the repairs to the kitchen and living  room.  
In regard to Ms Bs loss of rent claim, our investigator recommended Lloyds reimburse Ms B 
for five months loss of rent. And she recommended  a payment of £700 to Ms B for the 
distress and inconvenience caused throughout the claim.
Lloyds didnt agree  with our investigators recommendations. In summary, it said:
Ref: DRN82678612The damage to the kitchen  and living room were not related to the same leak;
The damage to the living room was a result of longstanding  maintenance issues 
which werent covered  under  the policy;
The reduced cash settlement was because the repairs  undertaken did not match  the 
original quotation;
Ms B proceeded with the repairs to the living room  without authorisation from Lloyds;
It felt that loss of rent shouldnt  be covered as Ms B was a private landlord and not 
the named insured on the block policy;
It wasnt responsible for all the delays as decisions were  required from the directors 
of the management company to progress  the claim.
Our investigator reviewed  Lloyds response, but it didnt change  her findings. She found that 
Ms Bs initial quote for the repairs was reasonable and necessary  to put the property back in 
a habitable position. She added that she found that some decisions regarding  the claim had 
been made between Lloyds and the directors of the management company without 
informing Ms B, and she didnt think this was fair.
Lloyds responded to our investigator. It said it felt the payment made  to Ms B adequately 
reflected the repair work that had been  done.  It felt Ms B hadnt mitigated her loss in regard 
to the delayed repairs, as she didnt liaise with the other flat-holders when the repairs  were 
carried out. It maintained  the damage to the lounge was a maintenance issue  and didnt 
have any record that Ms B was advised  it could  be added to the first claim. 
Lloyds said it was now considering the loss of rent claim as a goodwill gesture, but it had 
some concerns over the amount of rent being  claimed. 
The complaint was referred  to me and on 31 October 2019, I set out in my provisional  
decision what I felt Lloyds  should do to settle  Ms Bs claim. Ive repeated an extract below:
Kitchen claim 
Lloyds has accepted Ms B had a valid claim for the damage to her kitchen.  And it accepted a 
quote from her contractor for the costs  of reinstating  the kitchen. The quote  was for £11,790 
plus VAT (total £14,148).  But later in the claim, Lloyds reduced the cash  settlement as it said 
the repairs done didnt match the original invoice.
I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Lloyds  to reduce its cash settlement figure after 
agreeing the cost to reinstate Ms Bs kitchen. I say this because ultimately Ms B is entitled to 
the costs she claimed in order to make the property habitable. Lloyds own loss adjuster 
agreed that the kitchen needed  to be replaced.  By agreeing to settle  the claim in cash, I think  
Lloyds discharged its obligations  to the quality of reinstatement works and repair. It was 
down to Ms B to decide  how to spend the cash settlement  and engage with her contractors.
Ultimately, Ms B had a valid claim and provided an acceptable quote  for reinstatement 
works. So I think Lloyds  needs to honour its original agreement to settle  the kitchen claim in 
full, and pay Ms B the remaining sum.
Living room claim
Ms B says Lloyds agreed that she could add the damage to the living  room ceiling to her 
existing claim. Lloyds says it doesnt  have any record it told Ms B she could  do this.
Ref: DRN82678613Ms B says that when she noticed the damage  in the living  room,  she arranged  for the loss 
adjuster to visit. She says the loss adjuster noted the water leaking from the ceiling and 
advised it could  be added  to the existing claim.  Ms B obtained a quote  from her builder to 
repair the living room.  The quote included the replacement  of two windows  one that was 
damaged by the water leak and another which has been damaged and broken because of 
the repairs carried out. Ms B proceeded with the repairs because  she was advised  the 
ceiling was at risk of collapsing.  Ms B has provided photographs of the work  done to support 
her claim.
Lloyds says it was first notified  about the damage to the living room ceiling in May 2017.  It 
says that when the loss adjuster visited the property in March 2017, he noticed cracks in the 
living room  ceiling, but did not consider these linked  to the leak in the kitchen and there was 
no water  leaking at this time.  Lloyds  says the loss adjuster contacted Ms B in June 2017 
following a further  visit to say that he considered the damage  in the living  room  to be a 
longstanding issue, which wouldnt be covered under the policy. Lloyds has also provided 
further testimony from the management company, which it says supports its conclusion that 
the damage was an ongoing problem. Ive considered this and I can see that the previous 
tenant of the property  stated there  was significant  mould and damp damage to the longue 
when she first moved in six years  ago, especially in the corner of the bay window. She also 
recalled there were cracks in the ceiling. In addition, she stated the damp damage was 
patched and redecorated when she first moved in, and further repairs were done around  
three years after that. 
Having carefully considered the evidence from both parties here, I am of the conclusion the 
damage to the living room  ceiling was not caused  by an insurable  peril. I say this because I 
am persuaded by the evidence from the management company, which indicates there was 
an ongoing issue with the balcony floor of the flat above. The management company 
confirmed they had been trying to get this fixed many times  over the last ten years,  but at the 
time of Ms Bs claim were  still trying  to source the issue. In my opinion, this demonstrates 
there was an ongoing  leak problem caused by the flat above and not a one-off event. And it 
shows it wasnt related to the kitchen leak as this was caused by a failed washing machine 
feed pipe.
Ive checked the policy  terms to see if the living room ceiling could be considered  under the 
accidental damage  section of the policy. But this includes an exclusion for gradual 
deterioration, wear  and tearor any other gradually operating cause.  As I dont think  the 
damage to the living room  ceiling falls under an insurable peril of the policy, I dont think  
Lloyds should  pay this part of the invoice.
I also dont think that Lloyds needs to pay the part of the invoice for the replacement window 
which was damaged by the water leak, for the same  reasons Ive mentioned above. But I 
havent seen anything from Lloyds to explain why it has declined the claim for the 
replacement window which was damaged  during repairs. If it hasnt done  so already, I think  
Lloyds needs  to reassess this aspect of Ms Bs claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy and let Ms B know what it thinks.
Loss of rent claim
Lloyds has now accepted Ms Bs loss of rent claim as a gesture of goodwill so I think  it 
should honour this. But Lloyds has raised  some concerns over the number of months being 
Ref: DRN82678614claimed. Ive looked at all the evidence surrounding this part of the claim and I will set out 
what I feel is a fair settlement below.
Ive seen evidence  that shows Ms Bs tenant lived in the property until May 2017  and paid 
full rent of £1,157 per month up to this date. She then moved  out as the property became 
uninhabitable and the repair work started. Ms B has provided evidence to show a new tenant 
moved in October  2017, and our investigator  asked Lloyds to cover the loss of rent for this 
five-month period. But I think Lloyds should only be responsible for covering the period when 
the property was uninhabitable  as a result of the kitchen damage,  as Ive determined this is 
the only valid claim.
From the evidence Ive seen, work  started on the kitchen in late May 2017  and looks  to have 
been completed in late June/early  July 2017. As Ms B was paid rent up to mid-May 2017, I 
think it would  be reasonable for Lloyds to pay Ms B for two months loss of rent. And I think it 
should be at the same rate that Ms Bs previous tenant paid.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
Ms B has provided our service with a timeline of events from when she first claimed. Lloyds 
has said there are some  discrepancies in the timeline, but I think it does reflect  how long it 
took to progress the claim.
Lloyds has acknowledged  there  were some  delays in the claim, but some of these were 
down to the decisions it needed from the management company in order  to progress things.
Our investigator recommended Lloyds pay Ms B £700 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Having  looked at everything, I do appreciate there was some  delay in Lloyds 
delivering the outcome of the living room claim to Ms B. I think this would have caused her 
some upset as she was told the ceiling was at risk of collapsing. But I can see Lloyds  did 
work with the management company to try to move things forward  albeit not always  with 
Ms B in the loop. And I acknowledge  it has considered her loss of rent claim as a goodwill 
gesture outside  of the policy terms.
So overall, I think a payment  of £500 would  better  reflect the inconvenience and upset that 
Lloyds caused  to Ms B directly as a result of its actions.
Developments
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and added it would need to consider  the damaged 
window as a separate complaint, as it hadnt had the opportunity to review  this part of the 
claim.
Ms B accepted my findings  about the kitchen claim and loss of rent. But she didnt accept my 
recommendation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ms B felt that £70,000 
would be a true reflection of her distress and the costs that should be awarded. She 
provided an example  of a different complaint where  a business had awarded £150 for a 
banking error.
Ms B also said that Lloyds  should pay for the damage to the window in the living  room  and 
asked me to reconsider the evidence about the living room  claim.
Ref: DRN82678615My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ill be upholding this 
complaint and I will require Lloyds to do what I set out in my provisional decision.  And Ill 
explain why Ms Bs response  hasnt changed  my mind about  what  Ive seen.  
I do appreciate this claim has caused Ms B some inconvenience. But as I set out in my 
provisional decision, I am also mindful that Lloyds has made some payments outside of the 
policy terms. Ive considered the example  Ms B provided in regard to a banking error, but I 
dont think it is relevant in the circumstances of this case. And I havent seen anything further 
to persuade me to increase the amount of compensation here.
I want to reassure Ms B Ive thought carefully  about  the living room claim again.  But there 
hasnt been anything new provided  for me to consider that I havent already thought about in 
my provisional decision. So I wont require Lloyds  to settle this part of the claim. I also think  
its reasonable for Lloyds to have an opportunity to review the damaged  window claim.  If 
Ms B isnt happy  with Lloyds response to the damaged window, she can raise this issue as 
a separate complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require The Society of Lloyds to:
Cash settle the remainder of Ms Bs claim for the escape of water in her kitchen, in 
line with the original accepted invoice for reinstatement works up to a total of 
£14,148;
Pay 8% simple interest on this sum, from the date Ms B submitted her claim, to the 
date of settlement  ;
Pay Ms B two months  loss of rent, at a rate of £1,157 per month;
Pay Ms B £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused;
Review Ms Bs claim for the replacement window in the lounge which was damaged 
by repairs.
 Income tax may be payable on any interest  paid.  If The Society  of Lloyds deducts income 
tax from the interest  it should tell Ms B how much has been taken off. The Society of Lloyds 
should give Ms B a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
The Society of Lloyds must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Ms B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN82678616Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8267861