K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the amount Society  of Lloyds (SOL) have paid him in response to a 
claim he made.
When I refer to SOL, Im also referring to any of their appointed  agents or representatives.
background
Mr D rented out his house to tenants.  He had landlords buildings  and contents insurance to 
cover the house,  provided by SOL. The house  was rented out to tenants in March  2017 and 
soon after they stopped  paying rent and refused access to the house.
Mr D began legal proceedings and by October 2017 they had moved  out after being evicted. 
Mr Ds managing agent inspected the house. They found widespread  damage  and noticed  
items of contents were  missing. In November  2017 Mr D made  a claim to SOL for the cost of 
putting things  right, which was around £27,000.  SOL appointed a loss adjuster to consider  
the claim.  They inspected the house in December  2017 and let Mr D know the outcome in 
January 2018.
SOL said some damage  may have  been caused maliciously by the tenants. But it would only 
be covered by the policy if it had been  reported  to the police. They  said the missing  items 
would also need  to be reported to the police and evidence that six-monthly  inspections  had 
been carried out would also be required for the policy to provide cover. SOL thought the rest 
of the damage  to the house  was caused  by poor treatment and neglect, which they said 
wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr D complained to SOL.  In summary  he made  the following points:
SOL had appointed a solicitor to manage the situation with the tenants;
It was already known  to the solicitor that the tenants had refused access to the 
house;
If hed needed  to contact the police, the solicitor  would  have  advised  him to do so;
The solicitor hadnt advised him there  might  be any doubt his claim would be
covered;
The policy SOL had sold him included cover for returning the house to the same 
condition it was in prior to the tenancy;
The way the tenants treated the house amounted to malicious  damage.
SOL responded  to Mr Ds complaint. It said it was only responsible  for the buildings  
and contents policy  not the legal expenses and rent guarantee policy.  It reiterated the 
comments the loss adjuster made  in January 2018.
Mr D provided  a crime reference number. SOL paid him £2,272  for malicious  damage  
to some electric gates. Mr D also explained that he wouldnt  be able to provide six 
monthly inspections  because the tenants  had refused  access. SOL paid him £5,000 for 
theft of contents by the tenants,  £370  for replacement locks,  and £100 for debris 
removal.
Our investigator considered the complaint. In summary she thought:
Ref: DRN80621432Aside from the electric  gates,  there  was no evidence  that any damage  had been 
caused deliberately or maliciously by the tenants;
She thought  the damage  was more likely to have  been  caused by neglect or a lack of 
care, poor living standards or poor treatment;
Overall, she found the claim settlement was fair. But she thought it should have been 
paid to Mr D sooner;
She thought  SOL should  pay interest on the settlement from the date of loss to the 
date of the payments;
She also thought  SOL should  pay £200 compensation for trouble and upset caused  
by the delays.
SOL agreed to pay £200 compensation.  They also agreed to pay the following interest:
    Replacement  locks  and debris  removal  from date of loss to date of settlement;
    Electric gates  29 June 2018 to date of settlement;
    Theft of contents  23 July 2018 to date of settlement.
For the electric gates, SOL said Mr D reported  the damage to the police on 29 June 2018  
which was required before the policy would  cover the claim. And for the theft of contents, 
SOL said Mr D confirmed  he didnt have evidence of six-monthly  inspections on 
23 July 2018,  as his managing agent was unable to gain access  to the house. In both 
cases they felt the respective dates were the earliest  they could have accepted  and paid 
the claims.
Our investigator thought  SOL was aware of the lack of access as far back as 
December 2017  when the house was inspected. She maintained  interest should be paid on 
the theft settlement  from the date of loss. She agreed with what  SOL had said about interest 
on the electric gates.
Mr D made  several points, which Ill summarise below:
The tenants reported a leak and refused access to repair  it, which  led to damage;
This damage was caused deliberately in order to support the tenants claim the 
house wasnt fit to live in  and therefore support them  withholding rent;
The solicitor was aware of the situation and Mr D followed their advice;
He was sold a package of two policies,  including the SOL policy, to provide 
comprehensive cover  for landlords.  Mr D trusted he would  be protected against 
tenants acting  in the way he had experienced;
SOL had chosen to pay some low value aspects of the claim because the tenant had 
damaged or taken  things deliberately. But they had chosen not to pay for the high 
value ones that were  also a result of the tenant  acting deliberately.
As Mr D didnt  agree, its been passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 February  2020.  It said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it.
In this decision I can only consider the things SOL were responsible for  the claim made 
under the SOL policy.  I cant  consider Mr Ds claim under the legal expenses and rent 
Ref: DRN80621433guarantee policy  including  the actions of the solicitor. I also cant  consider how the policy  
was sold. Mr D is entitled to make separate complaints about those matters  if he wishes.
The SOL policy provides  cover for loss or damage to buildings  and contents in a number of 
different ways. Ill consider each aspect of Mr Ds claim  separately.
Replacement locks and debris removal
SOL has accepted  that costs as a result of both things are covered by the policy and has 
settled them in full. SOL has also agreed to add interest to both settlement figures from the 
date of loss.
Im satisfied this is a fair resolution to these two aspects of the claim.
Theft
The policy covers theft by tenants subject  to a limit of £5,000.  SOL has paid £5,000, so I 
dont think theres anything further  for them to pay under this part of the policy.  I think 
interest should be added to this figure  from the date of loss and Ill explain why.
As our investigator has pointed out, in its report  the loss adjuster was aware of the timeline  
of events and accepted  that the tenants  had refused access to Mr Ds managing agent. So, I 
think it was clear to SOL from the outset  that Mr D wouldnt be able to provide evidence of 
inspections and for good reason.
The policy places a duty on policyholders to inform the police as soon as possible following 
malicious acts, theft or lost property.  Mr D first became aware  of the theft in October  2017  
and he notified  the police  in June 2018. He could have notified the police sooner. Where a 
policy condition hasnt  been met, insurers should only rely on the condition if it has an impact  
on the claim. Here  I dont  think it would have made a difference.
When he initially submitted his claim, Mr D included a list of stolen items. In its report the 
loss adjuster didnt  dispute that any of the items had been stolen or who had stolen them.  
After Mr D reported the matter to the police and explained about the inspection reports, it 
was still several months before SOL reconsidered the list of stolen items. They realised the 
value of all items exceeded  £5,000 and settled the claim  at that amount. From  the notes Ive 
seen, it appears SOL hadnt initially recognised the value exceeded  the limit. The notes  dont 
give the impression  that the validity of the claim  was ever in doubt  or that the crime 
reference number  played any part in assessing the claim. So, I think  SOL should have 
settled the theft claim at a much earlier stage.
Ref: DRN80621434Damage to electric  gates
SOL has accepted  this damage  was malicious  and covered  by the policy. Theyve settled 
this part of the claim in full. For the same reasons as above, I think  interest should be added  
from the date of loss.
Damage to house and garden
The policy covers malicious damage  caused  by tenants. It doesnt define  what is meant by 
malicious damage. In my opinion it means  damage  caused with the intention to do harm.  
For example, deliberately  smashing a window or kicking a hole in a wall. It doesnt mean 
damage caused by wear  and tear or a lack of maintenance.
The policy also covers accidental damage. This is defined in the policy as physical damage  
caused suddenly  and accidentally, and not through wear and tear, breakdown  or 
malfunction. And the policy  covers damage caused  by water escaping  from pipes.
Ive looked at the information Mr D has provided  about the damage  to the house and garden.  
Ive considered the report produced by the managing agent after the tenants left and the 
accompanying photos.
Its clear the tenants left the house  unclean and untidy. The report mentions many areas that 
need cleaning.  For example, the bathroom sink was described as heavily scaled. In the 
kitchen, the oven, sink, surfaces and some of the units  were  shown to have numerous marks 
and stains. Similar problems were noted in most other rooms  and the garden,  which  was 
described as overgrown  and in need of weeding.
The report  also highlighted areas of damage. For example, a loose toilet  roll holder, crack in 
the bath, a chipped kitchen surface and a broken  door hook.
Although I have no doubt Mr Ds house was left in a poor state by the tenants, Im not 
satisfied any of the problems associated with cleaning  or incidental damage are clear 
evidence of malicious or accidental damage. It appears the tenants  made  little effort  to take 
care of the house  or leave  it as they found it. Im not persuaded that a lack of care or upkeep 
of the house amounts to deliberately damaging it in order to cause harm.  The areas of 
damage identified  above are typical  of those which commonly happen around houses and 
arent clear signs of an accident  or malicious  intent. I think it was fair for SOL to decline 
these parts of the claim.
Mr D has pointed to some damage  which he thinks was caused  with malicious intent  the 
leak in the bathroom, which I understand caused  damage to the bathroom and utility room  
below it. He says the tenants had complained of a leak from the bathroom. But when 
somebody was sent to fix it, the tenants  refused access to the house.  Mr D believes the 
tenants deliberately  denied  access in order to allow the damage  to get worse and support 
their claim for not paying rent.
The leak happened because the shower was poorly  maintained and cleaned. And to say the 
leak was caused  maliciously I need to be satisfied that the tenants  knew a leak would 
happen if they didnt clean  the shower properly.  There isnt any evidence to suggest this, so I 
dont know whether the leak itself was caused maliciously  by the tenants. But even if it 
wasnt, the policy covers damage  caused  by a leak. I agree with Mr D that the tenants  
appear to have obstructed access to his house  after reporting the leak and thats allowed the 
Ref: DRN80621435damage to worsen.  Knowing there was a leak that was causing damage to the house and 
preventing anybody from fixing it is a clear  sign the tenants were wilfully allowing damage  to 
be caused to the house.  Im satisfied that amounts to malicious damage.
This means  any damage to the bathroom and utility room  caused by the original leak or the 
tenants allowing  the leak to continue should  be covered by SOL.  But I dont think  SOL is 
liable to cover any of the other damage in these areas as a result of the tenants  failing to 
maintain them. Long after the event and with repairs carried out already, it wouldnt be 
practical to ask SOL to try to distinguish which bathroom and utility room damage  is covered 
and which  isnt. So, I think a pragmatic resolution  would be for SOL to pay 50% of the cost of 
all work in these areas to settle the claim.  It should  also add interest to this settlement. 
Damage to landlords contents
The policy covers damage  to carpets,  curtains,  blinds and white goods. This section is 
separate to those  mentioned above.  It doesnt specify how the damage must be caused   
only that there must be damage.
In the documents Mr D has sent SOL, theres  an estimate for replacement blinds. Its not 
clear from the reports that the blinds were damaged. If they were, Mr D is welcome  to 
respond to this provisional decision  with any evidence  he has to show they were  damaged  
and an invoice to show the work was done. I can then consider whether this aspect of the 
claim should be paid by SOL.
Claim delays
SOL has accepted  it caused avoidable delays that caused unnecessary  inconvenience  to 
Mr D and has agreed with our investigators suggestion to pay £200 compensation.
As Mr D wasnt living at the house during  the claim, the primary inconvenience to him as a 
result of the delay is being without the claim settlement for longer  than he should have been. 
The interest payments  are intended  to compensate for that. Aside from that, Mr D had to 
enter into additional communication with SOL that could have been avoided  if the claim had 
been handled better. I think £200  is a reasonable amount in the circumstances.
SOL didnt reply  to my provisional decision.
Mr D did reply. He asked  me to consider that when the tenants first occupied the house, they 
had been aware  of a leak from the bathroom to the utility  room below. It was this leak that 
returned and which the tenants  wouldnt allow  to be fixed.
Mr D believes  this shows the tenants  wilfully caused damage to his house to support their 
claims against him to not to pay rent and to sue him for damages.  He was disappointed  with 
how his insurer handled that claim.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN80621436The SOL policy provides  cover for certain loss or damage to Mr Ds buildings  and contents. 
A different insurer provided the policy  for legal expenses and rent guarantee. In this decision 
Im only looking at how SOL and how they handled  Mr Ds claim for damage to his buildings  
and contents.  I cant  consider how another insurer dealt with a separate  claim. Mr D is 
entitled to make a separate complaint to the relevant insurer if he wishes.
I agree  with Mr D that the tenants caused some of the damage  maliciously,  including 
allowing the leak in the bathroom  to continue in the knowledge it would cause further 
damage. And SOL accepted the tenants  had maliciously damaged the electric  gates.  Its 
possible the tenants caused  other damage maliciously too. But based on the evidence Ive 
seen, all the other damage  claimed  for is more consistent with that caused  by a lack of 
upkeep or cleaning or generally living with little care for the home. In my view thats not 
necessarily done  with the intention to cause harm, so I dont think  SOL acted  unfairly when it 
said this damage wasnt  malicious and wasnt  covered by the policy.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons  above, Im intending  to ask Society of Lloyds to:
pay 50% of the cost of the work carried out to the bathroom  and utility  room;
add interest of 8% simple per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement for 
each part of the claim*;
pay £200 compensation.
*If Society of Lloyds  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much  its taken  off. Society of Lloyds
should give Mr D a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8062143