K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that during a visit to Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide), she was 
asked personal  security questions by staff in the presence of other customers. Mrs F is 
unhappy with this and with the way in which staff behaved towards her.
background
Mrs F attended a Nationwide branch to withdraw funds from her account  using her 
passbook. The cashier then asked  her for personal  information to check her identity as 
Mrs Fs signature  had worn out on her passbook. Mrs F says, as the branch was busy she 
didnt want to say this information out loud. 
Mrs F says she then asked for her passbook back but this was refused. She was then 
subjected to accusations  and shouted at by staff, including  the manager. Mrs F then 
produced her passport, which resolved the issue. But by this point she says she had been  
caused stress which resulted in shaking  and pain in her left arm.
Nationwide says it doesnt agree with Mrs F and believes the matter was dealt with in a 
professional manner. It says the questions asked are standard  policy  for validating  the 
identity of customers and, as a result, it hadnt done  anything wrong. As there  was an issue  
with Mrs Fs signature, it says these were necessary on this occasion.
Mrs F was unhappy with this response  and says the cashier could have handled the matter 
better by giving her the opportunity to write down her personal  information instead. But this 
option wasnt offered  to her. She also says Nationwide had deliberately  destroyed  the CCTV 
after viewing it to cover  up the actions of staff members. She says this would have shown  
the staff shouting at her and surrounding her.
An investigator looked into this and didnt  think Nationwide had done anything wrong. Mrs F 
didnt agree with the investigator  and added that she had been surrounded during the 
incident. So the matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mrs Fs complaint that the CCTV was not viewed  and her comments  on its 
deliberate disposal  by Nationwide.
Nationwide has said that the CCTV is no longer available due to the passage of time. It says 
it wouldnt have been helpful in any event  as there  would have been no audio. And I can 
understand why it thought this given  that Mrs Fs initial complaint only referred  to a verbal 
altercation, not the recent  point she has made about  being  surrounded. So I think 
Nationwide has provided a reasonable explanation for why it didnt retain the CCTV and 
there is no evidence  it has destroyed it deliberately. 
In any event, regardless of the reasons, that evidence is now no longer available.  So I need 
to consider what other evidence I have.
Ref: DRN83100992Mrs F isnt disputing  that the cashier  was entitled to ask her the security questions  she did. 
But shes  unhappy  about how this was handled. So the issue that I need to decide  is 
whether Mrs F was mistreated in any way.
Mrs F says she asked  for her passbook back after being asked the security questions; but 
this was refused.  I think this is reasonable as the staff member had not verified her identity 
and therefore  couldnt be sure it was her account. 
I have considered if asking Mrs F for her passport would have been appropriate at this point. 
But it would be unreasonable to expect  staff to know she had it in her possession at the time. 
I think, as Mrs F was aware  she had the passport,  she could have been offered sooner.  
That being  said,  I completely understand why Mrs F didnt want to state her personal 
information when  others  could  overhear it. So I accept the cashier could have arguably 
offered alternative  ways  of providing  the information  requested. For example, as Mrs F says, 
by asking her to write it down instead.  But I dont  think the way it was handled  was 
necessarily unreasonable given  that its clear from the authentication  script and guidelines  
that the cashier followed the usual business process.
Mrs F says she was then shouted at by staff, including  the manager,  with accusations and 
demands. However, Nationwide has provided a statement from branch which  differs 
substantially from the account provided  by Mrs F. In particular, the statement indicates  it was 
Mrs F who lost her temper and didnt behave  in a reasonable manner. 
These are very different  versions of events  and I have no doubt  Mrs F is genuine in her 
perception of what happened. But as I was not present, I need to decide what  I think was 
most likely to have happened, despite  that perception.
In considering that, I have taken into consideration that Mrs F says she regularly visits the 
branch. So there is no reason why on this occasion  staff would have deliberately  targeted  
her as opposed to another.  Additionally, after Mrs F produced  her passport the issue  was 
resolved, which  is inconsistent with a targeted  abuse of an individual. I think if the staff were  
being deliberately difficult then it is likely they would have continued to do so after the 
passport was produced. So for these  reasons I think it is more  likely than not that this was all 
an innocent misunderstanding or a breakdown in communication.  Not a deliberate 
aggression as suggested by Mrs F.
So overall I am happy that although things could have been handled a little differently by the 
cashier initially, the way it was handled  wasnt unreasonable.  And I think  this is a case of 
misunderstanding rather than a deliberate targeting of Mrs F. Although I appreciate Mrs F 
suffered distress as a result of the incident, I cant say this was due to Nationwides  actions.
Ref: DRN83100993my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8310099