K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Handepay Ltd did not allow her to cancel a card terminal hire 
agreement even though she had not received the equipment.
background
Mrs M spoke  to a representative of Handepay on the phone  about hiring the terminal.  An 
agreement was sent to her and she signed it. She was not happy that the terminal had not 
arrived after a week. And she then said she did not want it. Handepay said she had a 
binding contract with the hire company and would have to pay termination charges.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-Shed  listened  to recordings of the calls Mrs M had with the sales representative 
before the agreement  was signed. There was no cooling off period mentioned.  
-Mrs M had now said she had no telephone line in her business to use the terminal 
even if shed taken  delivery. But during the calls with the representative shed said 
there was definitely a phone line and shed need  to find out the operator. The 
representative said Mrs M could plug the terminal into a non digital  telephone  point 
He sent an email stating this and that Mrs M would not be able to take payments at 
the same  time as being on the telephone.  
-Mrs M had the chance to read the agreement before she signed. The agreement said 
it could not be cancelled. So a termination payment was due if Mrs M did not 
maintain the agreement  and payments for the minimum 24 month  period. 
-Mrs M signed  the agreement electronically on 20 April 2018.  The card terminal  was 
delivered to the engineer on 27 April 2018.  And an attempt at delivery to her 
business was made  on 30 April 2018 but Mrs M was not there. She told the engineer  
and then Handepay that she no longer wanted  to hire the terminal and had made 
other arrangements.
-Handepay accepted that it had not returned Mrs Ms calls about delivery and that she 
had been caused  inconvenience  and it offered to defer three  months hire costs.    
Mrs M did not accept this. So it provided  details of the cost of terminating  the 
agreement which was over £450 in June  2018.
Mrs M did not agree. She said that she wanted  to know why there  was no cooling off period. 
And she said she should have been  told that there wasnt  in the same way for example  her 
own car insurance policy is explained  to her. She is being charged for something she is not 
receiving and she never had the terminal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M entered this hire agreement as a sole trader, so as a business not a consumer. Thats 
an important distinction here and the terms of the agreement  reflect this. The key information  
box of the agreement states that This agreement is not cancellable  by the Hirer.  The hire 
agreement was for a minimum  period of 24 months. Our adjudicator has referred to the sales  
calls Mrs M had with the representative.  Im not persuaded that Mrs M was misled  about the 
terms of the agreement during those calls. Or that the sales representative  ought  to have 
given her any other information  about the agreement. 
Ref: DRN85386162The agreement was sent electronically  to Mrs M and she had the opportunity to review this. 
She signed it and I consider she was reasonably bound by the terms.
Mrs Ms request to cancel  the agreement seems  to be due to two issues.  First that there  
might not have been the phone line at her business she expected. Thats something the 
sales representative could  not be aware of. The second issue was with the time before the 
terminal was ready  to be delivered.  I cant see that Handepay gave any firm commitment  
about delivery. Mrs M signed  the agreement on 20 April 2018 and it was approved  on 25 
April 2018. The first attempt at delivery of the terminal was made  on 30 April 2018. I 
appreciate that Mrs M had asked to be called before that delivery. And that her earlier  call 
about delivery had not been returned. But she did not want to accept delivery after that when 
she could still have  had the terminal. She had already made alternative arrangements. Im 
afraid I dont find these circumstances reasonable grounds for her to expect the hire 
agreement Handepay  had arranged to be cancelled at no cost to her.
I know Mrs M is going to be disappointed when I say that, as a result, she remains fairly 
liable for the hire agreement. And that includes  the costs of terminating that agreement 
which will include the administrative costs of attempts to collect  missed payments from her.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8538616