K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the decision on liability made by Zenith Insurance  plc (Zenith)  following 
a road traffic accident he was involved in.  
background
Mr S was involved  in a road traffic  accident in January 2018. In June 2018 Zenith were 
contacted by the solicitors representing the third party  to submit a claim for personal injury. 
Zenith contacted  Mr S to discuss the circumstances of the accident. During the call Mr S 
provided the following information:
He was at a junction getting ready to turn left when the cyclist was hit by the corner  of 
his bumper.
He was driving at approximately  5 miles per hour.
He wouldnt be claiming  for damage to his car.
Hed accepted  to go on a drivers awareness  course to avoid being  charged with 
driving without care and attention.
He thought he would probably  be held accountable for liability, and that Zenith  would 
deal with the claim.
In September  2018 Mr S contacted Zenith saying that hes not happy that the claim was 
recorded as a fault claim against him. In November 2018 Zenith  told Mr S that following 
review of the accident and circumstances, they wouldnt be able to defend or dispute the 
claim. Mr S complained to Zenith about their decision.  
Zenith reviewed Mr Ss complaint and didnt  think  its decision on liability should be changed.  
Zenith found that the communication with Mr S couldve been better, and offered £75 in 
recognition of this. Mr S wasnt  happy with this response, and so referred his complaint  to 
this service.
Our adjudicator found that Zenith had acted  fairly  and reasonably in reviewing Mr S claim, 
but also that the communication couldve been  better. The adjudicator thought  the £75 
offered was fair, and didnt recommend Zenith do anything more. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators view saying  that wed failed to consider  road regulations, and the Highway 
Code when deciding  whats  fair. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr S. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the adjudicators findings, 
and I wont be recommending Zenith do anything more.  I can understand this is likely  to 
come as a disappointment  to Mr S but I hope  my findings go some way in explaining why 
Ive reached this decision.   
Ref: DRN85850212When a complaint about whos liable  for a road traffic accident is referred to this service, its 
important for both parties to be aware that a decision on who was responsible  for the 
accident is best dealt with by a court. When we investigate a complaint about  liability, our 
role is to consider  whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. 
Its common for an insurer to handle the claim how it sees  fit. Ive see that Mr S insurance 
policy conditions explained that The insurers are entitled under this policy  to take over and 
conduct the defence  and settlement of any claim. I think its fair to say that Zenith  was 
allowed to make a decision on whether  to settle, or dispute the claim from the third party 
insurers. So Ive looked at whether Zenith  acted  fairly and reasonably  when making their 
decision. 
Ive listened to the call in June 2018  when Mr S first discussed the accident with Zenith.  Mr S 
tells the call handler that he thought  he would probably be held accountable  for liability,  and 
that Zenith  would deal with the claim. Theres no mention of any mitigating factors  or 
circumstances that wouldve led Zenith  to question  liability. 
I accept that its not unusual  to recall details of an accident after it takes places, and 
sometimes because of the shock and upset of being involved in an accident, it can take time 
to remember what happened. In this case,  Mr S provided a detailed description to Zenith in 
June- approximately six months after the accident  took place. Mr S gave no indication  at this 
time that there was any likelihood of the third party being responsible for what had 
happened. Mr S provided another testimony  in September- approximately nine months  after 
the accident took place.  The evidence provided in September  is contrary  to Mr S 
recollections of the accident from June.  
Ive considered that Mr S recalled the drivers  clothing and visibility  from the accident  
differently in September. Whilst this evidence  was true to the best of Mr S knowledge  I think 
its fair to compare the different  testimonies,  and apply weight to the testimony that has the 
most supporting evidence. The evidence Mr S provided in June  gave a strong  indicator that 
Mr S believed himself responsible for the accident.  I cant say there was any hesitation in 
Mr S testimony about how the accident  happened. Importantly, Mr S description  in June 
matched the description provided  by the third party.  On balance, having considered Zeniths 
decision not to defend  the claim, I cant say this decision was unfair or unreasonable.
Ive considered Mr S comments  about  the road regulations in place to protect all road users,  
and the Highway Code. I agree its important to consider the laws and codes  in place at the 
time an accident take place. But this service is ultimately looking at whats fair and 
reasonable. In this case, in addition  to the third partys evidence supporting the description of 
the accident given by Mr S in June, theres also evidence of Mr S seen to be accepting 
liability when  the police  became involved.  
Mr Ss testimony from June matched the evidence provided by the third party at the same 
time. Theres also evidence that Mr S indicated he would be held at fault when he first 
discussed the claim, and that he accepted the consequences of attending a Drivers  
Awareness Course after the accident.  Having considered this evidence,  I cant  say that 
Zeniths decision not to defend the claim was unfair  or unreasonable. Zenith has offered £75 
in recognition of their communication with Mr S, as there were  some emails that went 
unanswered. I think this amount is fair, so wont be recommending Zenith pay anymore. 
Ref: DRN85850213my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because the offer Zenith Insurance  plc has 
made to Mr S is fair and reasonable. I leave it to Mr S to decide  whether to accept this offer 
by the date specified below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8585021