K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Ms L have complained that in February 2018 Nationwide  Building Society unfairly  
and unreasonably declined their request for a further advance  on their mortgage.  Mr D has 
dealt with the complaint throughout. 
background to the complaint
The events giving rise to the complaint can be summarised below.
Mr D and Ms L have a mortgage with Nationwide taken out in October 2003. They initially  
borrowed £214,300.  Since then theyve  taken out four further advances in 2008,  2009, 2012 
and 2014, borrowing an additional £140,115 in total, about £100,000 of which  was for debt 
consolidation, with the rest being  either  for home  improvements  or personal spending. All the 
borrowing is on a capital  repayment basis. Theres currently  just over £200,000  outstanding  
across all five accounts.
In February 2018  Mr D and Mrs L wanted another further advance  of £37,000. After initially  
suggesting the application would  be approved,  Nationwide declined it after carrying out a 
credit check.  Nationwide explained  that it had concerns about credit  card utilisation and that 
data given in the declarations didnt match its own information.
Mr D was unhappy about this. He thought Nationwides assessment of the application had 
been based on inaccurate data.  Mr D made very detailed representations to Nationwide  to 
try to have the application approved. But Nationwide was still unwilling to agree to the further 
advance.
Nationwide acknowledged  it had given Mr D some inaccurate information about the credit 
files during the course of his complaint. It also accepted it should have sent a complaint 
response by email as well as in the post.  Nationwide paid compensation of £200  for this in 
its final response dated 22 May 2018. In a further  letter dated 5 July 2018 Nationwide said it 
would pay a further £200 compensation for other administrative  failures.  But Nationwides  
position was that, notwithstanding some inaccurate data it had relied on, it would still have 
declined the application.
Unhappy with the way Nationwide had dealt with the matter,  Mr D and Ms L referred it to us 
in August 2018. An investigator considered the matter, but didnt think it should  be upheld.  
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Meanwhile, in November 2018, the existing mortgage loans (the main advance  and the four 
further advances) were  re-arranged over a longer term, taking the end date for all borrowing 
from January 2029 to November 2032. This has resulted in a reduction  in the total monthly 
repayment (on the current interest  rate) by just over £500 per month.  But it means  Mr D and 
Ms L will pay more  interest  about £21,000 on current rates  over the longer term.
In asking for an ombudsman to review the complaint Mr D has set out in detail the issues  
hes most concerned  about. The following is a summary of the main complaint issues.
Nationwides application and decision in principle processes  are flawed, inconsistent and 
unfair.
Ref: DRN81340852Nationwides credit card utilisation criteria  and the way it is applied  are unfair and 
punitive.
Nationwide failed  to follow apparent process  when credit  card utilisation trigger  is 
reached.
Nationwides approach to alleged non-disclosed data was incorrect and punitive.
Nationwides refusal of the further advance is because it doesnt want to lose income 
from higher interest rate products.
The way Nationwide  assesses  risk is flawed.
Nationwide has failed  in its duty of care to treat customers fairly.
Refusal of the further advance has resulted in them having to pay interest on credit card 
withdrawals and authorised and unauthorised  overdraft fees.
Nationwide made Mr D and Ms L feel undervalued  as members of a mutual society,  and 
they felt like criminals.
Nationwide has discriminated against  them due to their age and breached their human 
rights  specifically Article 1 of the Human Rights Act 1998 relating to the protection  of 
property.
Nationwides record-keeping is inadequate.
Nationwides mortgage  advisers  do not receive  adequate training.
Mr D and Ms L want the following, by way of redress:
The declined application should be removed from their credit files;
The Financial Ombudsman  Service must  order Nationwide to give them the further 
advance;
Alternatively, they want the application to be reconsidered in a full appointment with a 
qualified financial consultant . But this would be only acceptable  to Mr D and Ms L if 
Nationwide uses a credit  check  limited to payment history and validation  that there are 
no county court judgments against  them, and that Nationwide accepts the information 
Mr D and Ms L provide about their credit  history as being  correct.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is to instruct Nationwide to make available  the lower  
interest rates that were  available  in February 2018.
They would like a very sincere apology from Nationwide for the way theyve been 
treated.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is to direct Nationwide  to change its processes or 
alert the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to ensure change. This is for the benefit of 
other customers.
Ref: DRN81340853They would like compensation for the following:
The actual costs  of not having the further  advance  such as the cost of cash 
withdrawals from credit cards,  interest  on those withdrawals and authorised  and 
unauthorised overdraft fees,  a total of £2,020.
The loss of opportunity to make savings of £960 per month which theyd have  
made if Nationwide had either granted the further advance  or offered to extend 
the mortgage term sooner. Mr D estimates  this at £9,600.
There should be a backup award  in case Nationwide still wont  reconsider the 
further advance  of the £9,600,  plus the £2,020,  as well as the £5,000 early 
repayment charge  theyd incur if they move  products.
As they had no choice  to extend their mortgage  term,  this will cost a further 
£21,000 in interest over the additional  four years  of the term. They  would like 
Nationwide to revert  back to the previous products.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read everything provided by both 
parties (including everything he sent in on 11 February 2019), and Ive listened to Mr Ds call 
with us on 8 February  2019.
First, I know Mr D and Ms L have  been through a very difficult  time,  and I would  like to pass 
on my condolences for their recent loss. 
Its very apparent to me that Mr D feels very strongly about his complaint. Our file of 
evidence is considerable - and Id like to reassure both parties  that Ive given  careful 
consideration to everything thats  been  provided. 
Mr D has raised  a number of issues and questions hed like us to respond to. Were an 
informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this 
complaint, Ive focused on what I consider  to be at the heart  of the matter rather  than 
commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr D and Ms L. 
Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service,  the remit of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service and my role in it.
I must also explain  that its not the function of the Financial Ombudsman Service to protect 
consumers, as Mr D has suggested. We are not consumer champions. Our role is to be 
independent and impartial. I am grateful to Mr D for the very detailed  submissions hes 
made, and. I dont underestimate how important  this is to him; he has presented  his case 
articulately and clearly.  But as I am independent of both Mr D and Nationwide, I am able to 
assess the evidence  provided by both sides with a degree of objectivity that the parties to 
the complaint  might  not necessarily have.  
There are a number of issues about which  Mr D feels very strongly where he believes 
Nationwide has fallen  short. Some of these  I am able to look at and some  are outside the 
scope of the Financial  Ombudsman Service.
Ref: DRN81340854Specifically, we have  no power to supervise or regulate Nationwide.  This means that I cant  
tell Nationwide  what processes it should  have in place, how it assesses applications from 
customers who want to borrow money, tell Nationwide which  credit  reference agencies it 
should use or dictate  how it trains  its staff. And as Nationwide isnt a public authority, it 
doesnt fall within the scope of the Human  Rights Act 1988.  
Its up to Nationwide  to set its own lending criteria, as part of its business operations.  Its 
outside my powers  to tell Nationwide what its lending criteria should be. 
What I am able to decide is whether, on the basis of the information it had at the time of the 
applicaiton, Nationwides decision  to decline the application for the further advance was a 
reasonable exercise of its commercial judgment. Im not required to assess the application 
myself or to substitute my own decision about  whether or not the application should have 
been granted. 
The starting point  is that Nationwide  isnt under  any obligation to lend money; nor is there 
any right that Mr D and Ms L are entitled to borrow additional  funds.  But if a request is made 
for a loan, Nationwide  should give the application fair consideration, within the terms of its 
own criteria. Nationwide  is also entitled to decide the level of risk to which  it is prepared to be 
exposed.
Nor is Nationwide required to tell borrowers in advance of them making an application what 
its internal lending criteria  is; this is commercially  sensitive information.  Lenders keep this 
information confidential in order to prevent borrowers from manipulating their finances  in 
order to fit criteria. So there is nothing sinister  in Nationwide declining to disclose its lending 
criteria to Mr D and Ms L.
I know Mr D is adamant  that he and Ms L are a good risk, they can afford  the repayments 
on the further advance and that the loan-to-value  ratio is very low. Theyve not been in 
arrears and havent missed a payment.  But those  are not the only criteria taken into 
consideration when deciding whether or not to lend. It is a far more complex process than 
simply looking at money  coming in, money going out and what  security  is offered for the 
loan. 
The initial enquiry made by Mr D suggested  the further advance  would  be approved, but this 
was always subject to Nationwide  conducting  a full assessment. And since 2017,  lenders are 
required to look much more closely at borrowers  spending patterns, levels of unsecured 
debt and long-term affordability, applying a stress  test of 3% above standard  variable rate. I 
think this is particularly so where, as in this case,  unsecured debt has been consolidated 
multiple times. 
In declining  the application  at the initial stage, prior to full underwriting, Nationwide was 
concerned about  credit  card usage. As well as considering information from credit  reference 
agencies about  the data theyd recorded  concerning credit card usage for both Mr D and 
Ms L, Nationwide  was also able to look at Mr Ds credit card account which he held with it.
So I asked  Nationwide  to provide me with a copy  of Mr Ds Nationwide credit  card 
statements for the 12-month period  up to February 2018. I can do this because Mr D 
consented to us obtaining relevant information  when he submitted the complaint form  and I 
consider the statements to be material to the complaint.  
Ref: DRN81340855Ms Ls credit card is with another  provider, so I dont have access to her statements. But 
given Nationwide  was concerned about  credit card usage, I wanted  to see for myself if its 
concerns were borne out by what the statements showed concerning Mr Ds use of his credit 
card. 
So if, for example,  the statements had shown a modest balance  cleared in full each month,  
Id have been concerned  that Nationwides assessment  of the credit  card usage might  not 
have been reasonable.
But the statements  show that throughout the 12-month period up to the application, the 
account was, for the most part, at or around (sometimes exceeding) its maximum limit. Other  
than a payment  of £3,000  made early in the 12-month period (which Mr D has clarified came 
from his savings account held with a bank)  only minimum payments were  made.  The £3,000 
payment reduced  the balance, but this was increased up to its maximum within a relatively 
short period  of time. 
There were also regular  cash withdrawals  over that period. As these bear the highest  rate of 
interest, a pattern  of regular cash withdrawals on a credit card might  be suggestive  of a lack 
of funds in accounts where withdrawals wouldnt generate any interest  charges.
Given these factors, and looking at the card history  for the previous 12 months I think  it was 
reasonable for Nationwide  to assess the use of Mr Ds credit card account  as high risk. I 
appreciate Mr D explained to Nationwide (and to us) the reasons for this, but it didnt change 
Nationwides decision.
In addition, the information received from credit  reference agencies  about credit card usage 
meant that the application didnt meet Nationwides lending criteria.  Nationwides role isnt to 
manage Mr Ds and Ms Ls finances. It was under no obligation to warn  them  in advance of 
any spending on the cards them that the way they used their credit  cards might affect any 
requests for future borrowing. 
Mr D raised his concerns  with Nationwide about why the application was declined   including  
his arguments  about the reliability of the credit reference data and his specific 
circumstances. Nationwide did what Id have expected it to do  and it reassessed  the 
application in the light of all this information.  After doing so, Nationwide acknowledged some  
inaccuracy in the credit information in relation  to a payment for an insurance policy  not 
credit cards. But Nationwide was still unable to agree to the advance.
Im satisfied that Nationwide was also entitled to take into account the history of further 
advances and past debt consolidation. Mr D and Ms L had already consolidated over 
£100,000 of unsecured debt over the term of the mortgage. Mr D argues that the further  
advance was intended to free up money  they were paying on higher-interest products. 
Ive noted Mr Ds suspicions  that he feels the application was declined so that Nationwide  
could make more money from him by keeping him on personal loan and credit card accounts 
which have higher interest rates.  But Im satisfied that this isnt the reason the application 
was declined. 
Ive also taken note of Mr Ds points that there would be no issue  with future  affordability  if 
the further advance had been granted because of pensions  he would be entitled to before 
retirement. Mr Ds also explained that, because of personal circumstances, he had to 
Ref: DRN81340856change his job, which had an impact on family  finances. And although hed explained to 
Nationwide that they were  struggling,  Nationwide refused to help them.
The history  of build-up of debt which  was then rolled over into the mortgage on multiple  
occasions is something Nationwide was entitled  to take into account when assessing  the 
risks associated with granting the application.
Mr D has explained that the level of debt at the time of the application  in February  2018  was 
unusual and was as a result of family  circumstances  and a change  of job with a reduction  in 
his income.  He also says that, even after paying the mortgage  (including the new further 
advance) and payments  towards Mrs Ls credit  cards, thered have been £400 extra 
disposable income which could have been used towards paying off the mortgage. 
But I think Nationwide had a legitimate  concern, given the past history  of consolidation  
even where the funds  had been  used to reduce unsecured debt  that if the further advance 
was granted, this would  have resulted in the accrual of substantial  amounts of additional 
unsecured debt within a few years  because this is what  had happened four times  
previously. 
Mr D has confirmed that after the last further advance  hed reduced  his credit card debt. And 
hes explained that the debt had grown  again  because of family  circumstances. But because 
there was a pattern of debt accrual  followed by consolidation, I can understand why 
Nationwide wasnt persuaded that in two or three  years time Mr D and Ms L wouldnt  be at 
the limit of their unsecured borrowing again. I think this was a legitimate concern, in all the 
circumstances.
I acknowledge that Mr D and Ms L felt undervalued  as members  of a mutual society  when 
the application was declined, and that Nationwides decision  was wrong. But Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that Nationwide  didnt treat them fairly (either  generally  or in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations),  or that it has discriminated against  them  due to 
their age. I think any customers  in the same  circumstances, whatever their age, would have 
had their application considered in the same way.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied Nationwides decision  to decline the application was a 
reasonable and legitimate exercise  of its commercial judgement based on the information  
available to it at the time.  Im also satisfied the application was considered fairly. Nationwide 
took into account everything  Mr D and Ms L said about their financial and personal  situation. 
Having done so, Nationwide was entitled  to decline the application.
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding the complaint. This means that I wont  be 
ordering Nationwide to remove  the decline information on Mr D and Ms Ls credit files or pay 
compensation for the losses theyre claiming as a result of them not being given the further 
advance.
Ive looked at the customer  service issues about  which Mr D complained.  These are set out 
in the correspondence between Mr D and Nationwide, so I wont repeat the details here. Im 
satisfied Nationwide  acknowledged it had made some  customer  service errors  in relation to 
inaccurate information and delay. But none of this affects the issue at the heart of the 
complaint  which is the declined application.
Ref: DRN81340857In the circumstances Im satisfied that the total compensation of £400 paid by Nationwide for 
poor customer service is fair and reasonable and Im not ordering Nationwide  to pay 
anything more.
Mr D has recently  explained that there is some information about his pension  provision 
which, in error, wasnt included in his application.  Hes asked that this is now taken into 
account. But as I explained at the outset, Im not going to assess the application, or order  
Nationwide to reconsider it retrospectively.
If Mr D and Ms L want to make a fresh  application  for a further advance they are free to do 
so. But this wont be on the basis Mr D has suggested  which is that Nationwide should only 
use Mr Ds and Ms Ls payment history, checking there are no county court  judgements and 
relying only on the information Mr D and Ms L provide about their credit history.  If Nationwide 
was to assess an application on that basis, it would  be in breach of its regulatory obligations. 
Instead, any future application for a further  advance would be based  on Nationwides lending 
criteria in effect at the time of the application.  If Mr D and Ms L are unhappy with that, they 
are free at any time to move their mortgage borrowing to another  lender  subject  to any 
early repayment charge  that might  be due on redemption of their existing mortgage.
For all the reasons given  above, Im not upholding the complaint. I know  this isnt the 
outcome Mr D and Ms L wanted. I totally appreciate that, from their standpoint, they believe 
Nationwide has treated them unfairly  and was wrong  to decline the application, particularly in 
the light of their specific family circumstances. But even though they may disagree with my 
decision, I hope Mr D and Ms L can see that I have taken into consideration everything 
theyve said and given  careful thought to it. In reaching my decision Ive looked objectively at 
all the evidence. But after doing  so, Im unable  to conclude that Nationwide  has acted 
unreasonably or treated Mr D and Ms L unfairly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8134085