K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy that he took out alongside  his mortgage.
background
Mr S took out further borrowings related to his mortgage with Santander  in April 2006 and at 
the same  time he took out a PPI policy to cover  his mortgage repayments should he become 
unemployed. In June  2008 Mr S increased  the cover  under his PPI policy as he had 
increased his borrowings.  
Mr S has previously  made a complaint  against  Santander about  a claim made shortly after 
increasing his cover.  This was dealt with by another ombudsman at this service in 2011. I 
understand a further complaint to the insurer was also made  and resolved in 2015. 
In October  2018 Santander wrote to Mr S to say as hed had PPI in the past he may be 
affected by the outcome of a Supreme Court case.  This meant he could be entitled to a 
refund of some of the commission  that was paid as part of the premiums  for the PPI. Mr S 
contacted Santander but it confirmed his particular mortgage PPI wasnt actually affected  by 
the court case and no commission  refund  was due.
Mr S raised issues about the PPI and said it had been mis-sold to him and he brought his 
complaint to this service.  
Santander didnt  agree the PPI was mis-sold,  but said in any event  there was no financial 
loss as the claim paid out on the policy to Mr S in 2008 was for more  than he had paid in 
premiums.
Our adjudicator said the PPI wasnt mis-sold in 2006  and agreed with Santander that there  
was no financial loss incurred anyway. 
Mr S didnt accept the recommendation  of our adjudicator and has asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr S case.
I would like to clarify  first exactly what I can and cannot consider. Mr S has raised a number  
of issues about  what happened when he increased  his PPI cover  in 2008 and then made a 
claim. He has repeated  some aspects about not receiving the full amount of the claim and 
how this has affected him financially. 
I cannot look at anything to do with his claim in 2008 as one of our ombudsmen considered 
his complaint about the claim in a final decision in 2011. As a final decision was issued, any 
matters about the claim and how much it paid out cannot be considered further. 
Ref: DRN80894242When Santander wrote to Mr S in October 2017 it was a standard  letter sent to customers  
who had in the past had PPI and not had a mis-sale complaint upheld. These letters  were  
sent as the result of a Supreme Court Case which led the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA)  
to review its rules and guidance.  Businesses were required to consider if commission  over 
50% had ever been paid as part of PPI premiums. Santanders letter  to Mr S was in relation 
to this.
As part of the review  of cases affected  by the Supreme  Court  case  businesses  contacted  
customers which is what happened here. But its letter was not to say that PPI may have 
been mis-sold, as Mr S appears to believe.
After receiving Santanders letter Mr S contacted Santander but when it checked  its records 
it said no commission was due to be refunded.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He said he was unhappy  and he thought  he may 
have been mis-sold the PPI and his complaint  previously about the claim period had not 
been fully resolved.
When considering  the issue  of excess  commission it is necessary to initial assess  if when 
the PPI policy  was first taken out it was mis-sold. So I can look at what  happened  in 2006 
when Mr S took out his PPI policy with additional  borrowings on his mortgage. 
was the PPI mis-sold  in 2006  and is any commission paid due to be refunded?
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr S didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. Mr S also selected  only to have cover for unemployment  so it is 
clear he had information about  the choices he had at the time.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put Mr S off taking out the cover. 
Mr S has said he it wasnt made clear there was a 60 day period after taking out the policy 
when it wouldnt have  paid out if he was made unemployed. In 2006  when the policy was 
sold this was clear in the conditions. Even  if it wasnt explained fully to Mr S I dont think it 
wouldve made any difference  to him taking  out the policy as he hasnt indicated there was 
any concerns about unemployment in 2006  and he seems to have wanted  the benefit  the 
policy provided. Ive thought  about everything Mr S has said but have seen nothing to 
change my decision about whether the PPI was mis-sold in 2006.
Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give Mr S some of the commission he 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreements   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr S mortgage became a 
regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008  they dont apply to his mortgage. So Santander 
Ref: DRN80894243doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr S paid for the PPI he had with his 
mortgage.
financial loss
I would like to also clarify  that if I had found the PPI sold in 2006 had been mis-sold  there  
would have been no compensation due to Mr S in any event. This is because of the claim he 
made on the PPI policy in 2008.
When PPI is mis-sold the purpose of the compensation is to put the consumer as far as 
possible in the position they wouldve been  in if they had never bought the PPI. If Mr S 
hadnt bought the PPI he wouldnt have been  able to make a claim. So where a PPI policy  is 
mis-sold and a claim has been paid out, it is fair for the business to take off the 
compensation for the mis-sale an amount paid for a claim.
In the circumstances of this case Mr S made a claim that paid out £15,060.00. The total PPI 
premiums he paid plus 8% simple interest  for being out pocket would have come  to around 
£3,750.00. The claim payment  here was substantially more  than the compensation if the 
policy had been  mis-sold.  So I dont think Mr S suffered any financial loss as a result  of 
buying the PPI.
Issues regarding  the extended  cover in 2008
I know Mr S has again raised points  in this complaint about what  happened  in 2008 when he 
increased the level of cover he had. And he feels this extra  cover  was mis-sold and the 
issues around the payments and claim have led to some  financial difficulties.  
As I have already  indicated, Mr S complaint about  what happened  in 2008 when he 
extended the cover and paid more for the PPI have  already been  addressed  in an earlier 
decision by an ombudsman. And I can make no further comment  or findings on the outcome 
of that complaint about the claim and what happened in 2008. 
Overall I would say that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Mr S but in any event he hasnt  
suffered any financial  loss caused  by the PPI as the claim payment far exceeded the costs 
of the PPI. 
my final decision
I am not upholding  this complaint. For the reasons Ive set out I dont  think  that the PPI was 
mis-sold by Santander UK Plc and in any event I dont think  Mr S has suffered any financial 
loss. I am also satisfied that the mortgage  was a regulated mortgage and so no commission  
refund is due. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8089424