K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Mortgages Plc wont reduce their mortgage interest rate to 
reflect their income and benefits  they are being paid.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a repayment mortgage  for £175,611 which  included  fees, with 
Mortgages Plc in 2007. The borrowing had a term of 25 years.
The mortgage account has been in arrears for a number of years  as Mr and Mrs R have 
been unable  to meet their full monthly payments.
Mr and Mrs R have had support towards  the interest charged on their mortgage from the 
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), as a result of receiving a low income.  But the 
amount they receive from DWP isnt enough  to cover their current contractual mortgage  
instalment. 
Mortgages Plc have  told us that the mortgage is currently  on an interest only basis  so this 
means that only the interest is currently being paid, which will leave the outstanding 
mortgage balance  at the end of the mortgage term.
Mr and Mrs R complained  to Mortgages  Plc as they wanted their interest rate reduced.  
Mortgages Plc said they are unable to do this as its not an option  they offer. Mortgages Plc 
also said they are unable to offer any new products to Mr and Mrs R as theyve made a 
commercial decision not to do so.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy  with this as they believed  that Mortgages  Plc should be able to 
reduce their interest rate following  on from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) 
guidelines. So they brought their complaint to our service. It was looked  at by one of our 
investigators who didnt  think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with our investigator  and asked for the complaint to be looked  at by 
an ombudsman so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs R, I wont  be upholding their complaint. Id like to explain why.
Our investigator checked the governments website  about DWPs Support for Mortgage 
Interest (SMI) to see what support they are currently giving  borrowers. He said that 
qualifying consumers will get help paying the interest  of up to £200,000 of their mortgage. 
He also confirmed that the rate used  to calculate  the SMI was 2.61%  at the date of his 
investigation. Ive checked this information and it is still currently  the same.
Ive looked at the original mortgage offer from May 2007 and this shows  that Mr and Mrs R 
took out a fixed  rate for a period of 24 months. After that period, it would change  to a 
variable rate which is charged at 3.7% above  the Bank of England Base Rate  for the 
remaining term of the mortgage. The current Bank of England  Base Rate is 0.75% so this 
would make the current mortgage interest  rate 4.45%. 
Ref: DRN89738232The DWP is currently paying 2.61% towards Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage interest for the first 
£200,000, which means there is a shortfall in the amount  that is required to be paid. 
Because Mr and Mrs R are unable to make up that shortfall, the arrears on their mortgage 
continue to increase  each  month.
I can appreciate that trying to make up this shortfall  is difficult  for Mr and Mrs R which is why 
they asked Mortgages Plc to reduce their interest  rate, to match the support they were 
receiving from DWP.
We would  expect a lender  to look at different forbearance options  to help consumers who 
are struggling financially. But Mortgages  Plc explained that reducing the interest rate isnt an 
option that they could  offer. There could be other  options that Mortgages Plc could have 
looked at to help Mr and Mrs R. And having looked  at the call notes  provided,  it seems that 
they have been able to put things in place to help Mr and Mrs R previously.
From the contact notes  that I have been provided,  I can see that Mr and Mrs R have been in 
communication with Mortgages Plc over a number of years. Mortgages Plc arranged  for a 
specialist team to communicate with Mr and Mrs R about their mortgage due to 
Mr and Mrs Rs individual  circumstances. This was a reasonable step for them to take. It 
seems that they have  discussed various  options over the years to try and help Mr and Mrs R 
and I think they have treated them fairly  with all of this in mind.
Mortgages Plc doesnt offer any new products or rates to any of their borrowers.  This is why 
they were unable to offer Mr and Mrs R a lower  interest rate. Mortgages  Plc is not treating 
Mr and Mrs R any differently  to any of their other customers who are also not able to switch 
to new products. 
Mortgages Plc is still regulated by the FCA and has to follow  their rules. But there  is nothing  
in the FCAs rules that says a lender has to offer new interest rates  to its customers  once 
their old rate expires.  The rules say that a lender has to treat its customers  fairly  taking 
account of their best interests; they have to communicate with them in a clear  and not 
misleading way; they have to notify  them of changes to their monthly payments; and they 
must not take advantage  of customers who cant move their mortgages  elsewhere by 
treating them differently  to other  customers with similar characteristics. I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs R couldnt move  lender  because  of the situation they were  in, but I dont think 
that Mortgages Plc have treated them unfairly   keeping the FCA rules in mind.
It does appear now that Mortgages Plc are taking this matter  to court. They  have suggested 
that Mr and Mrs R seek  independent legal advice which  they may wish to consider.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R are in a difficult situation but I dont think  that Mortgages Plc 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably in how they have dealt with them.  
Ref: DRN89738233my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8973823