K821x#15complaint
Miss C complained about how AXA Insurance  UK Plc handled  a claim under her motor 
insurance policy.
background
Miss C was in an accident which she thought was the other drivers fault. But when the other 
driver claimed under  her policy, AXA wanted  to settle the claim on a 50/50  (or split liability) 
basis. 
Miss C didnt agree with that. She complained to AXA about it and about  their poor service. 
AXA stood  by their decision on liability. But they accepted that their service  hadnt been as 
good as it should have  been, and they paid her some compensation for this. 
The investigator recommended  that her complaint should be partly  upheld. She thought  that 
AXAs decision to settle the claim was reasonable, but she thought that AXA should pay her 
a further £200 in compensation  for their poor service. AXA agreed to this. But Miss C didnt 
think this was enough, and so her case has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  who was liable for causing  an accident, as thats  a matter for the courts.  We 
only consider whether  an insurer  has acted in line with their policy  terms, and whether they 
reached their decision in a fair and reasonable way. 
Miss Cs policy  allows  AXA to settle  any claim against the policy as they see fit, whether 
Miss C agrees with it or not. This is a common  term in motor insurance policies and insurers 
are entitled  to make a commercial decision about  whether  its reasonable for them  to contest 
a claim in court or better for them to settle it to avoid  legal and court costs.
Miss C said as follows. The other driver in the accident was to blame  and hed lied to his 
insurer about what happened. He hadnt  stopped after the accident,  which  suggested that 
the accident was his fault. He hadnt reported  it to the police but she had. Shed asked  AXA 
about trying  to get more information  that she felt might support her case,  but AXA ignored 
her about  this. This made  her think that they hadnt  properly investigated it. She didnt agree 
with AXAs  decision to settle 50/50.  She said this meant she had to pay her policy excess,  
her premiums would  go up, and she would lose her previous No Claims Discount (NCD). 
The last two of these do depend on fault, but an excess applies when any claim is made 
under the policy,  regardless  of whose fault it is, so I think that Miss C did have to pay that. 
AXAs view was as follows. Theyd  considered  things properly before they decided on split 
liability. The information  that Miss C wanted to get wouldnt help her case,  and a police  
report wasnt evidence of what  happened  in the incident. Even if the other driver hadnt  
stopped that didnt necessarily mean  that the accident was his fault, and AXA had to treat his 
account of events as potentially  provable  in court. As there  were  no independent witnesses 
to the accident,  nor any CCTV footage,  it came  down to one persons word  against another.  
So taking into account both drivers  views  of events,  split liability  was the most likely 
outcome if it went to court and AXA would be unlikely to win the case  outright. 
Ref: DRN87296782So they decided  to settle on a split lability basis. I can see that Miss C has found this very 
frustrating, as she feels that she was in the right. But, as Ive explained above, insurers  are 
entitled to make commercial decisions about  whether they go to court or not. And before  
settling the claim AXA gave Miss C their reasons  for doing  so and allowed her to fully explain 
her account  of events.  I think  that AXA had thoroughly reviewed the evidence. And so it 
wasnt unreasonable for them to decide  that it wasnt economical for them to try to defend 
the matter in court. 
Miss C also had a number of complaints about AXAs customer  service.  I wont itemise them 
all here, but they included  the following. They didnt record her first report of the incident,  and 
didnt reply to her questions. They didnt keep her informed about what was happening  with 
the claim and she had to keep chasing  them. They didnt  tell her that her claim was still open 
and she only found that out when she was changing insurer. I can see from their file that 
AXA did explain some  of the above liability issues to her, and that the service issues  
wouldnt have affected their liability decision.  But AXA accepted that their service hadnt  
been very good and that theyd left the claim open  for too long. They apologised for that and 
paid her some compensation for it. When the investigator recommended that AXA pay an 
additional £200, AXA agreed.
I think that there will always be some  level of inconvenience when an accident happens and 
a claim is made under  a policy. But AXAs service was poor as regards how they handled 
both the claim against Miss Cs policy and her complaint, and its clear  that she was very 
stressed by that. But given that AXA have apologised, and they have already paid her some  
compensation, I think that the additional  £200 that the investigator  recommended  is 
reasonable and so I dont ask them to pay any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I intend  to partly  uphold  Miss Cs complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to pay Miss C £200 in compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Miss C 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN8729678