K820x#14Complaint
Mr W has complained that NewDay Ltd wont refund cash withdrawals, which he says he 
didnt make.
Background
Mr W has an Aqua credit  card account  with NewDay.
On 22 January 2018, he complained to NewDay about three ATM cash withdrawals which 
he didnt recognise.  The transactions  were made on:-
17/01/2018 10:57 £300.00
18/01/2018 07:53 £300.00
20/01/2018 07:41 £200.00
The ATMs were in his hometown. There was one genuine transaction  on 17 January 2018 at 
11.31 for £6.14.  This was a card payment at a petrol  station, located  within  half an hours 
drive from the ATM used  earlier that morning.
Mr W said he didnt  make these transactions. He said he only used his card for work 
expenses, mainly petrol, but not for cash withdrawals. He hadnt lost his card and still had it 
with him when he reported the disputed transactions to NewDay. And he said he hadnt 
shared his card or PIN with anyone else.
He said he keeps his card in his wallet and, when at work, he keeps his wallet in an 
unlocked drawer. He works in a close-knit team and he doesnt believe that any of his 
colleagues would have taken his card.
He said he was travelling, for work, on 17 January, hence the payment at the petrol station. 
He said he was alone that day. He said he was in a different county when one of the later 
transactions was made and he had a parking  receipt to prove this.
Mr W said he doesnt know how someone else got hold of his card.  He thinks  his card must 
have been cloned.
He asked NewDay for a refund.
NewDay investigated his complaint and decided not to refund him. It is treating him as 
having authorised the cash withdrawals because they were made with his genuine card and 
PIN. In addition, it said he hadnt lost his card and hed made genuine transactions between 
and after the disputed ones. It advised  him to report the fraud  to the police and offered to 
look again at his complaint if he provided  it with a crime reference number and the parking 
receipt.
Mr W wasnt happy with NewDays decision and so he brought  his complaint to this service.  
He also complained about its poor customer service. He said he wanted to clear  the balance  
on his account,  but it told him he should  wait until it had resolved his complaint. By waiting, 
hes incurred interest and charges on the outstanding  balance.
Ref: DRN81498502An investigator looked into his complaint and decided not to uphold  it. He said a cloned card 
wasnt used because its not possible to clone the chip in a card.  He also felt unable to 
conclude that the transactions were  fraudulent  because:
Mr Ws genuine card was used with his PIN
he hadnt shared  his card or PIN with anyone  else
he still had his card with him
hed made a genuine transaction in between the disputed ones.
The investigator also concluded that NewDay hadnt  advised him against paying  off the 
balance. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as those  reached  by the investigator 
and for much the same reasons. 
As both Mr W and NewDay  have seen the investigators detailed  view, I wont  repeat all the 
arguments here in my decision.
Generally, NewDay can hold Mr W liable  for the disputed  cash withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ws genuine card and PIN were  
used to make the disputed transactions and not a cloned card. But the regulations relevant 
to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable  NewDay  to hold him liable. So, I 
also need to think  about whether the evidence suggests its more  likely than not that Mr W 
made the cash withdrawals.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NewDay to conclude that Mr W 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
his genuine  card and PIN were used to make the cash withdrawals.
Mr W hadnt lost his card; he still had it with him when he reported the disputed  
transactions. 
He said the card was always in his possession.
He hadnt  shared  his card and PIN with anyone else.
There was a genuine payment at a petrol station, which was made within 35 minutes 
of the first disputed  cash withdrawal.
Mr W didnt  provide  the parking receipt showing he was elsewhere when one of the 
other cash withdrawals was made, despite  saying he had it.
Ive considered whether Mr Ws card was stolen and used by someone he didnt know  but I 
dont think this is what happened. This is because the person knew the PIN. Yet, Mr W said 
he hadnt shared  it with anyone else or written  it down.  Also,  the evidence indicates  that if it 
wasnt Mr W, then it had to be someone  close enough to him who could take his card and 
return it without him noticing. I think this rules out an unknown  third party.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr W authorised the disputed cash  
withdrawals. It follows  that NewDay is entitled to hold him liable for them.
Ref: DRN81498503Poor service
Ive read NewDays contact notes. These notes record its conversations  with customers. 
Theres no mention of him being told to cease  payments until the complaint is resolved but I 
accept there  might have  been a misunderstanding.
As it is, the notes record that NewDay told him on 3 February 2018 that it was holding  him 
liable for the cash  withdrawals and so its arguable he knew at that stage that he needed to 
pay the balance.  NewDay said hed set up a direct  debit for the full account  balance which 
was due on 8 February  2018. He made a payment of £150.00 on 7 of February 2018. The 
full balance of £990.82 was attempted  but the payment was returned due to insufficient 
funds. 
Given these circumstances, Im afraid  I dont  consider that NewDay  has given  bad advice.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr W, but I hope  the reasons  for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8149850