K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains as an executor of the estate of the late Mrs S about Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limiteds proposal to settle  Mrs S subsidence claim under her home insurance 
policy.
All references to Lloyds  include their agents.
Background
In 2003 Mrs S submitted a claim to Lloyds for subsidence to the rear of her home. Lloyds 
accepted the claim and its contractor proposed to demolish and reconstruct the affected  
area. Mrs S agreed to the work, which was completed in 2006.
Mrs S raised a further  claim for subsidence  in 2009, as there  was significant movement 
between the original front of the property and the extension. Lloyds monitored this 
movement between 2009 and 2011.  In 2011,  it concluded the property was stable enough to 
be repaired  and completed  the recommended works.
In 2016 Lloyds was told there was further cracking in the property, so it arranged  a visit to 
inspect the damage. It said that further movement had taken place and suspected the cause 
to be linked to a tree in a neighbouring  garden. It said that the tree had been removed in the 
previous year so it would monitor the movement for a period to see if it continued.
Lloyds continued  to monitor the property  and noticed slight  downward movement, so it 
extended the monitoring period to April 2017.  In June 2017 a separate  claim was made in 
relation to damaged drains which Lloyds  accepted.  The repairs  were done, and the 
monitoring continued.
In December 2017 Lloyds looked  at possible solutions to resolve  Mrs S claim. It said that 
the property is a semi-detached build,  and the neighbouring property was under-insured with 
a different insurer, but it needed to apply  the same solution to both properties  to ensure an 
effective repair.
Lloyds considered putting jacks on Mrs S property to prevent further movement,  but the 
expert reports said this wouldnt guarantee an effective  and lasting repair. Lloyds also looked 
at demolishing and rebuilding Mrs S property,  but its experts said this wasnt a viable 
solution for the neighbour or their insurers. The expert  explained that due to the cost of 
obtaining quotes it hadnt considered this option  further as it was clear the neighbouring  
property would also need to be demolished, and this would cause its insured to incur a large 
shortfall.
Lloyds concluded  the only viable solution would be to settle the claim using a Diminution  
Market Value (DMV) proposal,  or in other words, paying Mrs S the difference  between  the 
value of her home before and after the damage caused by subsidence. Lloyds also said that 
if Mrs S could  provide  an engineer report with recommendations suitable to both properties,  
or one that could  provide  an effective  and lasting repair  without causing  problems to the 
adjoining property,  it would consider it. But, Lloyds hasnt been provided with anything to this 
effect. 
Lloyds completed  three valuations of Mrs S home and made a proposed offer of settlement. 
Mrs S rejected Lloyds  offer and complained.  Lloyds  looked at Mrs S concerns about  the 
Ref: DRN84681932settlement offered. It agreed  there had been some avoidable delays during the claim and 
offered a payment of £475 for the inconvenience.  But it maintained its position  that the DMV 
proposal was the only viable  option to resolve the claim. And it said it had offered this 
settlement in line with the terms and conditions of Mrs S policy.
Mrs S didnt accept Lloyds response  and referred  the complaint to our service. She was 
represented by her son-in-law Mr D. She said she was unhappy with the settlement offered 
by Lloyds and how long it had taken to reach  its conclusion. She said there had been a lack 
of information,  and contradictory findings in regard to possible solutions. Mrs S also said that 
demolishing and rebuilding the property was her preferred option and didnt agree with 
Lloyds position  that the solution had to be the same  for both properties. In addition,  Mrs S 
said Lloyds had failed  to complete the drainage works raised in 2017,  and said that if Lloyds 
had underpinned the property, it would have stopped  the continued movement to the 
property.
Our investigator looked at everything  and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  She 
thought Lloyds had acted  fairly in following the recommendations  of the expert  reports  and 
made repairs as appropriate.  She found  that no concerns had been raised over the repairs  in 
2011 so couldnt say Lloyds had done  anything  wrong. 
Our investigator also reviewed Lloyds  offer of settlement and found it was fair based  on the 
valuations provided.  She concluded it wouldnt be fair to ask Lloyds  to rebuild both properties 
and therefore  the DMV settlement was a reasonable approach  for Lloyds to take in line with 
the policy terms.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigator. She said Lloyds hadnt completed some of the 
remedial works to the drainage of the house and she had paid a separate excess  for this 
claim. She said that although the drains  may not have caused the subsidence, the repairs  
may have  reduced  the speed  at which the property subsided. Mrs S added that she didnt 
think Lloyds had taken  the decision to underpin the property  seriously  and wanted to know  if 
Lloyds had any discussion  with the neighbours insurer about the claim.
Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so it has been passed  to me to 
make a decision. Whilst the complaint  awaited a final decision, Mrs S sadly passed away.  So 
the complaint  is now being brought by Mr D as an executor of Mrs S estate.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be asking Lloyds 
to do anything more  than it has already offered. Ill explain my reasons below.
offer of settlement
Mr D wants Lloyds to demolish and rebuild the property.  Lloyds says it cant do this because  
the neighbouring property  is under-insured, the solution involves demolishing both 
properties, and it couldnt demolish and rebuild without negatively affecting  the neighbouring,  
attached property.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs S policy set out how Lloyds can choose to settle the claim. 
The term states, We have the option of giving  you a money  payment instead  of repairing or 
rebuilding your home. We will either: - pay the cost of repairing the damage less an 
Ref: DRN84681933allowance for wear and tear or; - pay the difference between the open market  sale value of 
your home prior to the damage and its open market sale value after the damage.
I think the policy terms in this instance are clear that Lloyds can rely on this form of 
settlement for buildings claims. Mr D hasnt accepted Lloyds proposal as it would leave the 
estate with an unrepaired property. And I can understand  his concerns surrounding this. So 
Ive needed to consider whether Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in relying on these 
terms to settle the claim.
Ive looked at the other two options considered by Lloyds to settle the claim, and Lloyds 
reasons for not using them. This includes reviewing the reports completed by experts on the 
problems, and proposed solutions.  And Ive looked to see what  is most  persuasive in the 
circumstances. 
The first option considered was to jack up the property. Ive seen the comments  from Lloyds 
technical engineer about this solution. He says that jacking has been considered but would 
be impractical, as it is unlikely that it will be possible to remove sufficient distortion in the 
property. So this means the technical  engineer doesnt think jacking will lead to an effective 
and lasting repair of the property. Ive not seen anything else to dispute the engineers  
findings that this wouldnt  be an adequate solution, so I am satisfied this option has been  
considered and rejected fairly  by Lloyds. It wouldnt be fair for Lloyds to complete a repair  
that doesnt remedy the damage properly.
The next option would be to demolish  and rebuild the property. Lloyds  has said it cant do 
this without demolishing both Mrs S and the neighbouring semi-detached property. It says 
this would cause  the neighbouring insured to incur  a large  shortfall. 
I can see Lloyds has taken on and completed a number of different repairs in previous years,  
and none have led to an effective and lasting repair. Lloyds  technical engineer  has also 
commented on the prospect of demolishing and rebuilding the property. 
The engineer has said, given the degree of distortion and the fact the foundations are not 
stable, both properties can only realistically be repaired by demolishing  and rebuilding and 
this will need a deep, piled foundation. The engineer goes on to say the cost of re-building  
the properties will be extremely high in consideration of the market  value  of the properties.
Lloyds contractor said to Mr D in its response that the walls  to the neighbouring property 
could be supported whilst work to Mrs S property is done. But Ive seen  no expert evidence 
this is the case,  or a viable solution  here.
I dont think it would  be reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible for the actions of the other 
insured party  or ask it to take on additional  repair costs for a property which  it hasnt taken 
on as a risk. So on balance, I think Lloyds position to decline demolishing  and rebuilding the 
property is fair based on the evidence Ive seen.
Overall, I am persuaded by the evidence that has been  given by Lloyds for not proceeding 
with either  of these  options. So the only other option  available  to settle the claim under the 
policy terms would be to make a DMV payment.
I understand that Mr D is concerned as he has been  told by the contractor that Lloyds is 
using the most economical solution  to settle  the claim. But Ive reviewed Lloyds contact 
notes for the claim and I am persuaded that it has given sufficient consideration both to 
Ref: DRN84681934underpinning the property  and demolishing and rebuilding it. And Im persuaded the 
evidence suggests  these options arent viable. So whilst the DMV proposal may well be the 
most economical option for Lloyds, I am satisfied it carried  out enough investigations to see 
if either of the other options were  achievable first, before offering the DMV settlement.
Therefore I think Lloyds proposal  to settle the claim using a DMV proposal is fair in the 
circumstances.
damage to drains
I can see Mr D feels strongly about this point. He says that whilst the drains  may not have 
caused the subsidence, the repairs may have reduced the speed at which  the property 
subsided. 
Lloyds has said it accepted the claim for accidental damage to the drains in 
July 2017. Ive seen it was registered  as separate to the ongoing subsidence claim. Lloyds 
says there  is nothing to show  the consumer was unhappy with the repairs or that any work 
was outstanding. 
Ive looked at Lloyds report for the work carried out on the drains. The report recommended 
excavating and replacing an existing gully along with some pipework.  In addition, it 
recommended excavating and removing the mass roots around  a potentially redundant drain 
and capping this drain if necessary. The recommended works were shown as completed  in 
August 2017.  
So based  on what Ive seen I cant fairly  say Lloyds didnt complete the repairs  to the drains 
in line with the recommended scope of works. Or that this schedule of works was an 
unreasonable method of repair at this stage. Lloyds now considers  this claim settled and 
closed, so Mr D would  need to approach Lloyds separately if he has further concerns over 
the drain repairs. I dont  think  it would be reasonable for me to ask Lloyds to reopen and deal 
with this claim as part of this complaint.
compensation for delays
Lloyds has highlighted  a number of areas in its final response, which it says were avoidable 
delays. It said there  was a delay  in the initial change in engineers, a delay in arranging  repair  
to the drains,  and a delay in receiving  the property valuations. It has offered £475 
compensation for this. 
Having reviewed the claim, I accept there  were  delays here, and Lloyds could likely have 
managed these aspects  of the claim more pro-actively. But Ive also considered that Mr D is 
an executor and representative  of the estate.  As he isnt a complainant  in his own right I 
have no power to award him further compensation. But having looked at everything, I do 
think Lloyds offer of compensation  is reasonable here. I say this because I think  it accurately 
reflects the trouble and upset the late Mrs S was caused because of the delays. 
Ref: DRN84681935conclusion
Having considered all of the evidence,  I think Lloyds option to use a DMV proposal is fair.      
I think it has made a reasonable offer to settle  the claim  based  on expert advice and in line 
with the terms and conditions of Mrs S policy. I do think Lloyds is responsible for some of 
the delays during the claim, but I think its offer of £475 compensation is reasonable. So I 
wont be requiring Lloyds to do anything further in relation  to this claim.
Ive considered the original DMV proposal and think that Lloyds made a fair offer based on 
the advice given at the time (April 2018). I acknowledge some time has passed since  Lloyds  
carried out the valuations to Mrs S property. As a result its possible that further damage has 
occurred to the property from subsidence.  And it is also possible that the market  value for 
the area has changed too. Both of these factors mean that were  the property to be revalued 
now, it could either  increase or decrease  the amount offered as a DMV proposal. 
I asked Mr D whether he would prefer to accept Lloyds  original offer on behalf of the estate 
of the late Mrs S, or accept their proposal to revalue the property. Mr D responded and said 
the estate would accept the valuation already given by Lloyds. So I will require Lloyds to 
make this payment  as originally offered in April 2018. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limiteds offer to settle the claim 
using a DMV proposal is reasonable. So if Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited hasnt 
already done so it must settle  the claim with the estate of the late Mrs S and:
Pay the £90,000;
Pay the £475 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf  of 
the estate of the late Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8468193