K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that the increased charges James Hay WRAP Managers Limited took as a 
lump sum from his Investment Wrap Portfolio account at the end of 2018 were unreasonable 
because he wasnt notified  of the increases and the quarterly statements he received after 
the changes didnt show these.
background
In 2017 James Hay decided  to change its charges, meaning the cost of its Wrap accounts  
increased. It wrote to customers in June  2017 to notify them of these changes.  The letter it 
sent gave customers  two options. The first was to accept the changes   in which  case they 
needed to do nothing.  The second was to transfer  the Wrap  account  to another provider  
without having  to pay the standard transfer fee  if the customer notified  it this is what  they 
wanted to do within 120 days.
James Hay also wrote to the financial advisers  acting on behalf of customers warning that 
outstanding charges would be taken from products in the Wrap account if funds were not 
made available.
As it didnt  receive  any response to the letter it says it sent Mr P, or the letters it says it sent 
to his financial adviser, James Hay sold units in one of Mr Ps holdings to pay the charges in 
November 2018.  Mr P became aware of these as they were shown in his December 2018 
quarterly statement and complained.
James Hay didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it had written to him in June 2017 and 
had also written to his financial adviser eight times  before  selling units in his ISA to pay the 
charges. It referred to its terms and conditions which it said allowed  it to do what  it had done. 
It noted what Mr P said about  no longer being in contact with his financial adviser but pointed 
out it was mandatory to have a financial adviser for a Wrap account.  It warned that further  
monthly fees had become payable and it had written to Mr Ps financial adviser about these. 
It said there was no money in his cash account  so it would  again take the outstanding 
amount from his ISA if these werent  paid. It said that as a gesture of goodwill it would waive  
the transfer fee if Mr P wanted  to transfer  to another provider within 120 days   which Mr P 
did. 
Mr P referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators considered it. He didnt think  
James Hay had done anything  wrong. In short he said he was satisfied it had written to Mr P 
about the new charges although  said it was possible it had been lost in the post as Mr P said 
he hadnt received  this. He noted what Mr P had said about the charges not showing in the 
statements he was sent but said it had contacted his nominated  financial adviser about the 
charges. He said he was satisfied  that James Hay had acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the Wrap account when  it had sold units  in one of Mr Ps funds to pay the 
charges.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. In short  his reasons for disagreeing with the 
investigator centre on the fact that the quarterly statements he received  for the three 
quarters after the changes to charges made no reference  to these. He argues that this made 
the statements  inaccurate and kept him ignorant of the change  to charges. The investigator 
responded and said that the statements were  accurate. He said that James Hay had tried to 
get the charges paid through the financial adviser  and it was only when the charges 
Ref: DRN82807002remained unpaid that it then sold units to pay these. Mr P didnt agree so the matter has 
been referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is worth pointing  out that my findings are made on a balance of probabilities  what  
is more likely than not  so I am not saying  what definitely did or didnt happen. With that in 
mind I think it is more  likely than not that James Hay did write to Mr P in a letter dated 17 
June 2017 notifying him of the changes to charges. I have  seen a copy of the letter James 
Hay has said was sent and it is correctly addressed. It is possible the letter was generated 
and not sent out for some reason but I dont think it is more likely than not this is what  
happened.
Given I think James  Hay sent Mr P the letter about changes to its charges I think  it did what 
it needed to do to inform him of these. I acknowledge that Mr P says he didnt get the letter.  
But James  Hay has said it has no record of the letter being  returned to it  and I can see no 
reason this wouldve happened given  the letter was correctly addressed   so it had no 
reason to think Mr P had not received its letter.
In addition, and perhaps more importantly,  the terms and conditions state clearly that the 
client must at all times have a financial adviser  that is authorised to give instructions in 
relation to the portfolio.  James Hay contacted the financial  adviser that was appointed to 
deal with Mr Ps account on several  occasions between February 2018 and October 2018 
warning that, for outstanding transaction charges, if sufficient funds havent been  made  
available it would settle these and future transaction charges and/or adviser charges from 
other products in the Wrap account.
I note what Mr P has said about the correspondence  sent by James Hay to the financial 
adviser not being specifically in relation to him but in relation to other clients of the financial 
adviser as well. But I dont  think there  was any need for James  Hay to send individual letters  
rather than one letter identifying  the various  clients the financial adviser represented.  There  
is no reason to think this wouldve made it any more difficult for the financial adviser to deal 
with the information provided.
I also note that Mr P has said he was no longer in contact with his financial adviser. But the 
terms and conditions of his Wrap account  made clear  that he had to have a financial adviser 
for the account,  and it was for him to make sure one was appointed. James  Hay had no 
reason to think the financial  adviser  that was shown as acting for Mr P wasnt his financial 
adviser in the absence  of Mr P notifying  it of a change to financial adviser. So it had no 
reason to think the financial  adviser  wouldnt take instructions from Mr P with regard to the 
letters it sent to the adviser.
Mr P has suggested that the quarterly statements he was sent after the changes  were 
implemented in August  2017 were wrong and didnt indicate to him that there  was any 
change to the charges. I understand why he has suggested this and I acknowledge that if 
the statements  had shown the new charges being deducted from his account  he may well 
have queried this much sooner.
Ref: DRN82807003But I think each statement shows the current  positon of the account over the previous  
quarter identifying any charges actually paid in that quarter. Although  the changes to 
charges were as from August 2017 these were not paid until November 2018.  So I dont 
think the statements  are wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8280700