K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly increased his motor 
insurance premium.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mr S complained to UKI that his premium had increased by around 20%. UKI didn't think  it 
had done anything wrong. Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator  didn't  think  UKI 
had treated Mr S unfairly. Mr S didn't agree so his complaint's been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Ive seen that Mr Ss premium increased  from roughly  £302  a year in 2017 to around  £355 in 
2018. I make  the increase to be about  17.5%. And given that increase is higher than other 
cost-of-living increases I can understand why Mr S might find that concerning. But that 
doesn't mean UKI has done anything unfair.
Were not the industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) is. And its not my 
role to say how much  an insurer should charge,  what factors  it should  assess,  or how much 
risk to attach to each  of those factors. Insurance is essentially  an assessment of risk. And 
we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  And each insurer  will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely  it is that their policyholders  will make  a claim and how 
much they might have  to pay out for those. And each  insurer  will go about  that in its own 
way. So, when deciding  if an insurer  has dealt  with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its 
treated them  the same  as it would other consumers with similar circumstances.
UKIs given  us some information concerning the increase  in Mr S premium. Insurance  
pricing information is commercially  sensitive.  And because that information could give a 
commercial edge to their competitors, insurers wont usually set out how theyve worked  out 
a premium to their customer. So we dont expect insurers to make that information publicly 
available. 
But one of the main  factors  thats caused  Mr S premium  to rise is the removal of a 10% 
discount UKI had applied  to Mr S premium in previous years.  Mr S might not think its fair for 
UKI to remove that now. But as I've said above  its up to UKI to decide how it wants  to 
calculate a premium. And whether or not it wants to continue to offer discounts is essentially 
a matter of commercial judgement. Thats something its allowed to do when balancing  its 
need to cover any perceived  risks against its desire  to be competitive and retain a 
customers business. And thats not a decision we think it would be fair to interfere with. And 
having looked at the information UKIs given us Im satisfied that its treated Mr S the same  
Ref: DRN80983502as it would other consumers with similar circumstances. So I don't  think its calculated his 
premium incorrectly or unfairly.
As I've said above, I can understand that the increase in Mr Ss premium was higher  than he 
might have expected  when  compared with other cost-of-living price rises.  But Mr S was 
under no obligation to renew his policy with UKI. And he could have looked to the market  for 
a policy  from another  insurer which better suited his needs and his wallet. And that would 
have meant  that he didn't have to pay the increased  premium UKI asked for. So it was his 
choice as to whether he accepted that premium or not. And I don't think UKIs dealt with him 
unreasonably. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8098350