K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs  handling of his travel insurance claim and 
that it hasnt paid his full claim. 
background
Mr P contacted AXA while he was on holiday because hed injured his back. He wasnt  able 
to take his original  flight home. When he was fit to fly AXA arranged for a new flight  with a 
nurse escort. Mr P made a claim to AXA for his expenses, but AXA paid only part of his 
claim.
Mr P complained both about the amount AXA had paid him and also about  its handling  of the 
claim. AXA responded in detail to his complaint.  It didnt accept it had given him a poor 
service and said it had paid him the expenses he was entitled to under the policy terms. 
Mr P came to us. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary,  he said:
AXA had properly  paid Mr P for his receipted expenses.  It didnt have to pay for taxis 
where Mr P didnt have  receipts.
Although Mr P had claimed for his food and drink  expenses this wasnt  something 
AXA had to pay for. Mr P would have paid for food and drink whether in the UK or 
abroad. There wasnt any cover for those expenses.
Mr P had claimed £13 a day to pay his girlfriend for the additional days hed stayed 
with her; (hed  already  been staying with her before the injury).  Mr P had kept his loss 
to a minimum, but that was what hed be required to do anyway. There  wasnt any 
cover to pay the £13 per day. So AXA didnt have to pay this part of the claim.
AXA had dealt  with Mr Ps claim within a reasonable  time,  and had explained 
throughout that it wouldnt pay his claim for a payment to his girlfriend. As well as the 
receipted expenses  it had paid an amount for the exchange rate difference.  
Mr P didnt accept our adjudicators opinion and asked for a review.  In summary, he said 
hed saved AXA hundreds of pounds  in medical costs because  his girlfriend worked at the 
treating hospital  and by staying with her rather than at a hotel after his injury. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as those  given by our adjudicator. 
Ill focus on Mr Ps response  to our adjudicators opinion letter. 
Mr P has explained why he thinks its unfair AXA wont pay his claim to pay his girlfriend £13 
a day for the extended time he stayed  with her. I see his point but theres  no cover under the 
policy for this part of his claim. AXA doesnt  have to pay Mr P an additional amount because  
it saved hotel expenses  when he didnt actually stay in a hotel. 
I understand Mr P says he also saved AXA medical  costs because his girlfriend worked at 
the hospital where he was treated. But it has still paid a substantial amount for his medical 
Ref: DRN81768122expenses. Again the policy covers the actual expenses rather than the amount  Mr P says he 
would otherwise have been charged.
AXA has paid Mr Ps receipted taxi and phone costs and in the circumstances of his 
complaint I think this was fair.
Mr P has complained about the service he received from AXA.  Ive reviewed his contacts 
with AXA both while he was abroad  and when  he returned to the UK, together with its 
handling of the claim.  I think the claim was handled  reasonably promptly  and I dont think  
AXAs standard of service  merits any payment  of compensation  to Mr P. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8176812