K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  refused  his claim against his motor  insurance
policy following the theft of his car.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 14 May 2019,  an 
extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I wont repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said that as the keys  in car exclusion wasnt drawn to Mr Ms 
attention at the time the policy  was sold, I didnt think  it was reasonable for Ageas to seek  to 
rely on it. I was satisfied that if the exclusion had been brought to Mr Ms attention,  he would 
have behaved  differently  in that he wouldnt have left his spare key in his locked car. 
I said that Ageas should; deal with Mr Ms claim under the remaining terms of the policy,  
including considering Mr Ms claim for reimbursement  of payments hes made  in relation to 
recovery charges; reimburse  Mr M for the payment he made to insure a colleagues car, on 
proof of payment  and pay him £200 in relation to his distress  and inconvenience.
Neither Mr M nor Ageas provided a substantive  response to my provisional decision.  
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr M nor Ageas have provided  me with anything substantive about the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, I dont  think its reasonable for Ageas to seek  to reply on the keys in car 
exclusion, as it wasnt drawn to Mr Ms attention  at the time the policy was sold. I think if had 
been drawn to his attention, he would have behaved  differently in that he wouldnt have left 
his spare  key in his locked car. 
To put matters right, Ageas should deal with Mr Ms claim under the remaining terms of the 
policy, including considering his claim for reimbursement of payments  hes made in relation 
to recovery charges. On production of proof of payment,  it should  also pay Mr M £21 he paid 
for cover on a colleagues  car. In addition, Ageas should pay Mr M compensation of £200 in 
relation to his distress  and inconvenience.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
I now require Ageas Insurance Limited  to:
1.Deal with Mr Ms claim  under the remaining terms of the policy, including 
Mr Ms claims for reimbursement of recovery costs.
2.On production  of proof of payment, reimburse insurance costs  of £21.
3.Pay Mr M compensation of £200  in relation to his distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN86605122Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.  
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86605123extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas  Insurance Limited refused his claim against his motor  insurance policy 
following the theft of his car.
background
In March  2019, Mr Ms car was stolen from his driveway. The police  recovered  Mr Ms car, which was 
badly damaged: there were  dents in the door around the lock and the window  on the drivers  side was 
missing. The police  caught and charged the thief.
Ageas refused Mr Ms claim because hed left a key in his car. It referred  to an exclusion in the 
policy relating to keys in car.
Mr M says that he accidentally  left his spare key in his car but it wasnt in view  it was under the 
radio in a tray. He says that he locked  the door of his car, so the thief found the key after he had 
broken into the car. Mr M says he didnt receive the policy  and that the exclusion about the car keys 
wasnt drawn to his attention.
Mr M wants Ageas  to deal with his claim. He says that hes repaying finance on the car and that this 
matter is causing  him great distress.
Our investigator didnt think that Ageas  had acted unfairly. Mr M didnt agree. He said that his car 
was locked  and that he didnt know that he couldnt leave a spare  key inside  the car, as Ageas didnt 
highlight the exclusion.  Mr M says if Ageas had done so, this wouldnt have happened. He said that 
it took him significant  effort to find the policy.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite  understandable  that Mr M has very strong feelings about this matter.  Hes 
provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read all this carefully  and considered it 
when making my decision  but Ive focused  on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn.
Mr M has asked  that I phone him. Ill speak to either party if I think  theres  further information I need 
to decide the case which I dont already have. I dont contact either party simply because they want  
me to. To do so here would,  in effect,  give Mr M a one-sided personal hearing without Ageas being 
involved or being able to contribute.  I dont think thats fair. Im satisfied I can deal fairly with this 
complaint based on the evidence on file from both parties.
Ref: DRN86605124The starting  point is Mr Ms policy,  which provides cover for loss or damage to Mr Ms car caused 
by theft. One of the exclusions of the policy  relates to keys left in the car and states as follows:
What is not insured
[]
    Loss of (or damage to) the car
o When no one is in it, unless all its windows, doors, roof openings, hood and 
boot are closed and locked and all keys or devices needed to lock the car are with 
you or the person  authorised  to use the car.
Ageas wishes  to rely on that exclusion, so its for Ageas to show that it applies here.
Our established approach  is that we expect  insurers to highlight clearly a keys in car 
exclusion when the policy is sold. Thats because whilst most  consumers realise its not a 
good idea to leave a key in the car, most do not realise that they lose their theft cover if they 
do. So, this should have been drawn to Mr Ms attention when he took out the policy.
Ageas could  have highlighted the exclusion in a policy  summary or some other document, such as 
the schedule or product  information document. Here, the product information document  set out 
some things that Ageas excludes from the policy  such as theft by a persons known  to the 
policyholder or by deception  - but not the keys in car exclusion. I dont think it was sufficient for 
the exclusion to be in the policy document.
As the keys in car exclusion wasnt drawn to Mr Ms attention at the time the policy  was sold, I 
dont think its reasonable  for Ageas to seek to rely on it. And Im satisfied that if the keys in car 
exclusion had been brought to Mr Ms attention,  he would have behaved differently in that he 
wouldnt have left his spare key in his locked  car.
Having reached that conclusion,  theres no need to deal separately with the points Mr M has made 
about the availability of the policy document, as it wouldnt change  the outcome here.
To put matters right,  Ageas should deal with Mr Ms claim  under  the remaining terms of the policy. 
That includes considering Mr Ms claim  for reimbursement of payments  hes made  in relation to 
recovery charges.  
Mr M says that following  the theft he used a colleagues car and paid £21 in relation to
insurance. On provision  of proof of that payment, Ageas should  also reimburse  that amount.
Not every consequence of the theft is covered  under Mr Ms policy. Mr M says that the thief 
damaged his fence when he stole his car. Thats  not covered  by Mr Ms motor insurance policy. He 
may wish to consider whether the damage is covered by his home insurance policy.
Mr M has found this matter very worrying. Ageas  refusal of his claim caused him distress at an 
already stressful time. I think fair compensation for that is £200. In reaching that view, Ive taken  into 
account the nature, extent  and duration of Mr Ms distress and inconvenience caused by Ageas  
wrongful refusal of his claim.
Ref: DRN86605125my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint and require  Ageas
Insurance Limited to:
1.Deal with Mr Ms claim  under the remaining terms of the policy, including  Mr Ms 
claims for reimbursement of recovery costs.
2.On production of proof of payment, reimburse  insurance costs of £21.
3.Pay Mr M compensation of £200 in relation  to his distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN8660512