K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that she wasnt able to use her Tesco Personal Finance PLC credit card 
while she was abroad, which left her without access to money and spoilt her holiday.  
background
Mrs B holds a credit  card with Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco).  On 15 December 2018  
she contacted  Tesco after her card was declined  while she was attempting  to make a 
purchase abroad. Mrs B was told her cards PIN was locked  and she said she wasnt able to 
recall her PIN and may have entered it incorrectly.  A PIN reminder was sent to Mrs B by 
post. And Tesco explained that it had unlocked her PIN but she would  have to go to an ATM 
to complete the unlock process.
On 2 January  2019 Mrs B contacted Tesco again.  During this conversation she asked  if her 
card was fully active and queried  whether  she would  be able to use it as she was intending 
to go abroad again. Tesco  told her she could  use her card, which  was incorrect as while it 
had unlocked her PIN Mrs B hadnt completed the unlock process  using an ATM.
Later that month  Mrs B said she tried to use her credit card while she was abroad on an all-
inclusive cruise holiday. But she said it was declined each time she tried to use it. Mrs B 
telephoned Tesco twice  to query  why her card was being declined. And she was told her that 
her PIN was still locked  and had been since December 2018.  When  Mrs B explained that 
she had been  sent a new PIN she was asked  if she had unlocked it at an ATM. She stated 
that she didnt  know she had to. Tesco told her that it had unlocked  her PIN but she still 
needed to complete the unlock process  at an ATM.  So, it said it couldnt  do anything further 
to assist Mrs B without her unlocking her PIN at an ATM, which Mrs B wasnt able to do 
while abroad. 
When Mrs B returned home  she complained to Tesco  about  what had happened.  It accepted 
that it had incorrectly  told her she could use her card and paid £250  in compensation, which  
it felt was fair to recognise the impact this mistake had on her. It also agreed to refund an 
over limit, which was applied to Mrs Bs account as a result of her exceeding  her credit limit. 
But Mrs B didnt believe the compensation offered was sufficient to recognise her loss of 
enjoyment of her holiday. So she referred her complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator investigated Mrs Bs complaint and felt Tescos offer to put things right didnt 
go far enough to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she was caused by its 
mistake. Instead they thought an additional  award of £250 would more appropriately 
compensate Mrs B for her experience. But Tesco disagreed with the adjudicators 
recommendation. It thought the £250  it had already paid Mrs B was fair and reasonable 
here. So, it asked  for this complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.  I appreciate that Tesco  will be 
disappointed with this decision but I hope it can understand the reasons behind  it.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mrs B experienced while  abroad. I can appreciate that 
this caused her distress  and inconvenience  and mustve been incredibly frustrating. Tesco  
Ref: DRN85625702has already accepted it made a mistake  when it told Mrs B her card was functional and fully 
active during a call with it in early  January.  So, the issue here is whether its acted fairly and 
reasonably in offering to put things right. In thinking about this, Ive considered things from 
both sides. 
Tesco has already refunded the over limit fee it charged Mrs B. So, I wont spend  any time in 
this decision on that. Ill deal solely with the problems Ms B experienced when she was 
unable to use her card abroad. 
In January 2019 Mrs B made Tesco  aware  that she was due to travel  abroad again and that 
she intended to use her card while there. I say this because she mentioned  her pending  
holiday during  her telephone conversation with Tesco before she travelled overseas. And I 
think that the information Tesco gave  her during this call created a legitimate and reasonable 
belief in Mrs Bs mind that her card would  work  on her next holiday  abroad.
I appreciate that the previous month  Tesco had instructed  Mrs B to unlock  her PIN at an 
ATM before her card could be used. But I think the information it gave her a month later 
superseded the previous  guidance she was given about unlocking her PIN. I say this 
because when Mrs B specifically asked if her card was fully active Tesco  replied that it was. I 
think Tesco  shouldve reminded her during this call that she would need to unlock her PIN at 
an ATM  machine before being able to use it. And I think that if it had done  its most likely that 
Mrs B wouldve  either unlocked her card using an ATM or taken alternative methods of 
payment with her so she could access funds while abroad. 
Tesco stated that Mrs B ought to have taken more  than one card abroad as it feels  its not 
advisable to travel with only one method of payment.  And it doesnt think  it should be held 
accountable for Mrs Bs decision to embark on an overseas trip with only her credit card.  But 
Mrs B told our service that in addition to travelling  with her credit  card she also took £140 
cash and her debit card.  
I understand that Mrs B wasnt able to use her debit card because  she had used all the 
funds from this account to make  payments  to her Tesco credit  card before travelling abroad.  
I can see these payments on her January credit  card statement. Mrs B said she made large 
payments from her debit  card to her credit  card because she intended to use her credit card 
to pay for expenses that she anticipated  she would incur on her holiday. She also said she 
had another debit card with a different bank but had left it at home  due to there  being  no 
funds in that account. 
Having thought about what  both Tesco and Mrs B have said, Im not persuaded her decision 
to travel abroad with a debit card, some cash and her credit card was unreasonable here.  I 
acknowledge that Mrs Bs decision was influenced  by the fact that she was travelling on an 
all-inclusive basis. So, her flights, accommodation, food and drink were already paid for. In 
view of this, I think  it was reasonable  for Mrs B to anticipate that she wouldnt require much 
money while on board the cruise. The only funds she would need  access to would be to 
cover excursion and bar expenses, which Mrs B intended to use her Tesco  credit card to pay 
for. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.  And I also think  that when Mrs B 
decided to use her credit  card to cover these expenses she made  an informed choice that 
was based on the information Tesco had given her that her card would work. While this 
information wasnt correct  Mrs B had no reason to doubt what  she was told. It follows  that I 
think it was reasonable  for her to rely on it.
Ref: DRN85625703Tesco has already paid Mrs B £250 to compensate her for the impact  its mistake had. Its 
clear she doesnt think  this adequately reflects the inconvenience and distress she says she 
experienced while abroad. Having assessed whether this level of compensation 
appropriately recognises the impact  of Tescos mistake on Mrs B, Im not persuaded £250 is 
a fair and reasonable offer. Ill explain why.
Ive already commented on the fact that while abroad, other than a relatively small amount of 
cash, Mrs Bs credit  card was her only source of funds for sundry  expenses  she may have 
incurred. So, when  she wasnt  able to use her credit card abroad this effectively left her 
stranded abroad without access to money. Mrs B was a vulnerable  passenger who was 
travelling alone.  And this problem occurred at the outset of her holiday. 
The effect of what happened meant that Mrs B had no means of making payment for 
excursions or extras which werent covered under her all-inclusive  arrangement with her 
holiday provider. So, she wasnt able to take part in organised excursions from the cruise to 
sightsee places  of interest she had intended  to visit. And due to her health needs  she was 
unable to explore  on her own, which  left her confined to the ship.  So, Mrs B said she felt like 
a prisoner on the ship for the duration of her holiday. Mrs B also said her inability to access 
funds impacted on the way in which she was able to interact  with others  on board the ship as 
she didnt feel she could  join in socially  with other  passengers.  
Ive no doubt that not being able to take part in sightseeing excursions and social  events with 
other passengers would be a stressful and embarrassing situation for Mrs B. and I recognise 
that it mustve been very distressing to Mrs B to be left without access to money.  I can also 
understand how Mrs Bs experience wouldve been very isolating  especially for someone 
travelling alone.  I also think that the additional  health  needs she had, such  as mobility  
issues, compounded  the impact this all had on her. This all severely  impacted on Mrs Bs 
enjoyment of her holiday and caused her unnecessary worry and anxiety  so much so that 
she wanted to return home early  as a result of these problems. But she wasnt  able to do so 
as she had no access to funds to pay for an earlier flight.
I understand that when Mrs B telephoned  Tesco while abroad she was only able to do so 
with the assistance of staff on board the ship due to roaming restrictions  on her mobile 
telephone. And I can appreciate her frustration  when Tesco told her that it couldnt assist  as 
she would  need  to visit an ATM to unblock the card.  Mrs B said she travelled by taxi to an 
ATM machine twice  but still wasnt able to unlock  her credit card. And I think  she used  her 
best endeavours to attempt to resolve this problem while abroad. 
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Tesco acted fairly and I uphold this complaint. I 
dont think it did enough to resolve Mrs Bs complaint and, like our adjudicator, I dont think 
the £250 compensation it has already paid Mrs B adequately  recognised the inconvenience 
and distress she was caused  here. Im satisfied that that the additional £250 compensation 
award suggested by our adjudicator takes  into account the overall circumstances of what  
happened and is more appropriate  here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should pay 
Mrs B an additional £250  in compensation  to resolve this complaint (taking the total amount  
to £500).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.  
Ref: DRN85625704Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8562570