K821x#15complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with the damage charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) asked him to pay when  he returned a car at the 
end of his hire agreement.
background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 July 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to provide any more comments or evidence  before I reconsidered the 
complaint and issued a final decision.
Mr T replied saying  he had nothing further  to add.
MBFS replied  saying  they disagreed with my finding  regarding the tyre on the left hand  rear 
(LHR) wheel. They provided  an email from their relevant team who confirmed they had 
replaced the tyre, along with a job sheet confirming the same   so they felt applying  this 
charge was fair.
I let Mr T know about the new evidence  MBFS had provided, and that based on this, I 
intended to say MBFS could fairly charge for replacing the tyre. Mr T said he disagreed with 
this, saying he felt it was unfair for the following reasons:
MBFS shouldve provided  the evidence earlier 
he questioned  whether  the evidence provided by MBFS is genuine
he feels the nail should be considered fair wear  and tear considering  the length of 
time he had the car, and
that the tyre didnt need replacing following his repair
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed MBFS response along  with the job sheet theyve provided and the email from 
the relevant team who completed the work on the car. And Ive carefully  considered the 
points that Mr T has raised.
I agree  that it wouldve  been better  customer service  for MBFS to provide this evidence 
when the damage  charge was initially challenged by Mr T before the complaint came  to our 
service. But having  reviewed the job card Im persuaded that it is genuine. I say this because 
it has the correct vehicle registration details  and description on it, and the date matches with 
when the work was completed in 2018. It also looks like other job cards  that Ive seen. 
I explained in my provisional decision  that BVRLA  guidance says there must be no damage 
to the sidewalls  or tread on the tyre. And that I considered a nail in the tyre tread to be 
outside what Id consider  to be fair wear  and tear, even taking into account  how long Mr T 
had the car. I havent seen anything that persuades me I should reach a different finding  on 
this point. And while I appreciate that Mr T feels his repair should be enough to address the 
Ref: DRN82524982issue, I think its unlikely that MBFS wouldve replaced the tyre if it wasnt  necessary. Having 
reviewed everything Im satisfied that it is an actual cost that MBFS has had to account for.
So, having  considered everything, I think its fair for MBFS  to charge Mr T for the cost to 
replace the tyre on the LHR wheel.
Therefore, MBFS should remove the cost of refurbishment and polishing  of one of the alloy 
wheels at £85, as its already agreed to do. But I think it can fairly  charge for the 
refurbishment of the remaining two alloys  on the LHF and RHF wheels, and for the 
replacement of the tyre on the LHR wheel.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To put things right Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz 
Finance should:
reduce the total damages charges it is seeking from Mr T by the cost related to the 
refurbishment and polishing of the alloy on the left hand rear (LHR) wheel  stated as 
£85 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82524983provisional decision
complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the damage charges Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited trading as 
Mercedes-Benz Finance  (MBFS) asked him to pay when he returned a car at the end of his hire 
agreement.
Background
Mr T hired  a new car from Mercedes-Benz Finance on a 36 month hire agreement. On returning the 
car at the expiry of the agreement,  MBFS invoiced  Mr T for £426.50 in damage charges.  This invoice  
included refurbishing and polishing alloys on three of the four wheels at £85 each  left hand front 
(LHF), right hand front (RHF) and left hand rear (LHR). There was also a charge to replace the tyre on 
the left hand rear (LHR)  wheel, at £171.50.
MBFS said the alloys on three of the wheels (LHF, LHR, RHF) had gouges  up to 2mm  over
20% of the rim and that the tyre on the LHR wheel had damage to the wall of the tyre  meaning  it 
had to be replaced.  It said that under its vehicle  returns  standards, which  were part of Mr Ts hire 
agreement, its entitled to charge for these damages.
Mr T felt these charges were  unfair and not proportional, and that an allowance should be made for 
the enhanced value of the car due to the low mileage hed completed.  Mr T also said that he had 
replaced the damaged tyre and asked  that MBFS remove the cost for that tyre from the invoice.
MBFS said that the inspector who checked the car on its return noted that both LH alloys  and the 
RHF alloy wheel had collective  damage totalling  20% of the alloy wheel circumference  which 
matched the pictures  taken  at the time.
MBFS agreed to remove the charge for the replaced tyre if Mr T provided them  with an invoice, 
confirming hed had the tyre replaced.
Mr T provided an invoice to MBFS, but MBFS said that as the invoice only denoted a repair  to the 
LHR tyre and not a replacement, they wouldnt  remove  the cost from the invoice.
Mr T wasnt happy with this, so he brought a complaint to our service.
Ultimately the investigator agreed that damage on the alloys  of two of the wheels, and the damage to 
the tyre fell outside MBFSs vehicle returns standards and BVRLA guidelines  and she thought  it fair 
that MBFS could charge for this. But based  on the photo,  she didnt think  that damage on the alloy for 
the LHR wheel  fell outside the guidelines  so she didnt think it fair that MBFS were  seeking  to 
charge Mr T for this. MBFS agreed to remove the £85 charge for damage to the LHR alloy  reducing  
the total charges  to £341.50.
Mr T disagreed with our investigator, he says the photos dont  definitively show the gouges were 
outside the BVRLA guidelines  so all the charges should be removed. And that if hed replaced  the 
tyre before  inspection there wouldnt have been a charge. But, because hed done it between  
inspection and collection MBFS had charged him. So Mr T asked for an ombudsman to review  his 
case.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. At this stage Im minded to uphold the complaint but with different 
redress to that recommended by the investigator,  and Ill explain why below.
Ref: DRN82524984The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) has produced  industry guidance to help 
determine what  is fair wear  and tear, versus chargeable damage.  And Ive taken  this into 
consideration, along with the terms and conditions, what both parties  have told us and any evidence 
theyve provided  when deciding whether MBFS has acted  fairly here.
the damage to the alloys
The BVRLA  guidance  indicates  that minor scuffs and scratches to alloy wheels are acceptable, but 
that dents,  holes or scuffs  to the trim totalling  over 50mm are not. MBFSs vehicle returns  standards 
(VRS) says minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face 
is acceptable.
Having looked at the photos there is clear  scuffing  on the LHF and RHF alloys. And, Im satisfied that 
they exceed the guidelines set in both the vehicle returns standards that Mr T agreed to and the 
BVRLA guidelines   so totalling over 50mm.  Im not persuaded that the number,  size and overall 
amount of scuffing shown  in the photos is what Id consider  reasonable wear and tear based on the 
age of the car and the mileage Mr T completed.
MBFS have  already agreed to remove the charge for the refurbishment and polishing  of the LHR alloy 
 which is reasonable in the circumstances,  as the scuffs or gouges  in this photo  are less clear  than 
on the other alloys.
the damage to the tyre
The BVRLA  guidance  says any damage to the wheel spokes  or alloy hub is unacceptable and that 
there must  be no damage to the sidewalls or tread on the tyre. MBFSs vehicle returns standards  
(VRS) says any gouge,  crack,  cut, torn or plugged  tyre side wall isnt acceptable, and neither is any 
scuff chips  and scratches exceeding 25mm.
I note that MBFS  VRS differs to what is set out in the BVRLA  guidelines as to what  constitutes 
acceptable or fair wear in tyres, as MBFS VRS further defines what it considers to be not acceptable 
and this includes  plugged  tyres.
MBFS told Mr T that if hed replaced the tyre on the LHR wheel, they wouldnt have charged him. But 
that the invoice Mr T provided showed the tyre as being repaired, and not replaced.
Having looked at the photos  provided by MBFS I cant see what Id consider to be damage to the 
sidewall of the LHR tyre, or a cut as its described in their vehicle inspection report.  There is some 
scuffing, but this falls within the level of wear and tear Id expect on this car considering its age and 
the mileage its done. But I can see a nail in the tyre tread  which  is outside what  Id consider to be 
fair wear and tear.
But Mr T says that following the inspection, he took the car to a garage and had the tyre repaired. He 
has provided  an invoice to show that the garage  carried out puncture repair.
And although this shows that there was a repair  rather than a tyre being replaced, this was done after 
the inspection. I acknowledge that this might still not meet MBFS own return standards, but I did 
wonder if it had been sufficient so as to resolve  the issue. So I asked  MBFS  whether it could show 
that it had in fact replaced the tyre on the cars return, but they were unable to do so in this particular 
case.
So based on what Ive seen I think its possible that Mr Ts repair  to the tyre remedied the issue with 
the nail. And in this particular  case, given the fact that the repair might have  resolved the issue and 
MBFS cant demonstrate that it replaced  the tyre, on balance,  I dont think it is fair for MBFS to charge  
Mr T to replace  the tyre  so I intend to ask MBFS to remove  this charge of £171.50.
Mr T has raised a point about not having used his mileage allowance under the hire agreement - 
saying he feels this increases the value of the car, so hes asked that this be offset  against the 
Ref: DRN82524985damage charges.  I can understand Mr Ts frustration here as he hasnt driven  the car nearly as much 
as he expected.  And I appreciate the car is likely to now be worth more  than it would have been had 
Mr T travelled the maximum amount of miles  permitted  under the agreement. Mr T accepted the terms 
of the hire agreement when he entered into it, i.e. he would pay £345.26 each month in return for 
using the car up to 10,000 miles each year, pro-rated  for part years. There is nothing  in Mr Ts 
agreement that suggests  any rebate or refund will be given  if he doesnt exceed his mileage  
allowance.
While MBFS may now achieve a higher resale value because of the lower mileage Im not persuaded  
it would be fair or reasonable to require MBFS to offset the damage charges  because  of this.
So having considered everything, I think MBFS should remove the cost of refurbishment and polishing 
of one of the alloy wheels at £85, as its already agreed to do, as well as removing the cost of 
replacing a tyre at £171.50.  But I think it can fairly  charge for the refurbishment of the remaining two 
alloy wheels.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I intend to uphold this complaint.  Subject to any further 
submissions I receive, I intend to ask Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited trading  as 
Mercedes-Benz Finance  to do the following:
reduce the total damages charges  it is seeking from Mr T by the cost related  to the 
refurbishment and polishing of the alloy on the left hand rear (LHR) wheel  stated as £85 and 
for the replacement of the tyre on the left hand rear (LHR) wheel stated as £171.50.
I invite both parties to provide me with any further representations that they may wish to make by 8 
August 2019,  after which time I will reconsider  the complaint.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8252498