K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly refused to extend the term of their 
mortgage and switch it to a repayment  basis.
background
Mr and Mrs W had an interest only mortgage  with Santander. The term was due to expire in 
2022.  
Mr and Mrs W contacted Santander in 2016 about extending the term of their mortgage  and 
switching to a repayment basis. They say because  Santander  didnt  agree to this their son 
took out a mortgage to repay their mortgage balance. Mr W says this new mortgage is more 
expensive. Mr W said Santanders errors meant  theyd lost out financially and should be 
compensated for this. He offered to appoint  an independent financial adviser to calculate 
their loss.
I sent a provisional  decision  to the parties setting out what I thought about this complaint, 
based on the available evidence. In summary, I said I didnt think  Santander had treated  Mr 
and Mrs W unfairly  or that this had caused  them any loss. 
Both parties  replied to me. Santander  agreed. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. 
In summary,  Mr W said the mortgage  taken  out by their son is a repayment  mortgage with a 
20-year term and the monthly payments  are £300 more than the monthly payments for their 
previous interest-only  mortgage. Mr W said this impacts them and their son.
Mr W said they couldnt sell their house  as they didnt  have  enough equity to buy a new 
home. He says he visited branches  and called Santander many  times. Mr W said Santander  
didnt help them find a solution. He said the fact that Santander cant explain  why it didnt 
help means they are entitled to substantial  compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
What happened?
Mr and Mrs W took out an interest  only mortgage with Santander  in 2007. The mortgage was 
recommended to them by a broker, who also dealt  with the application to Santander. The 
mortgage application said Mr and Mrs W would  repay the mortgage by selling the property.
In late 2016 Mr and Mrs W contacted Santander  and asked about switching to a capital 
repayment basis and extending the term. 
Mr and Mrs W repaid  the mortgage in March 2017. They  say their son raised  the money with 
a mortgage, and theyre out of pocket  as a result. 
Ref: DRN86858642Did Santander treat Mr and Mrs W fairly?
Mr W says due to government  pressure  Santander and other lenders have been  extending 
the term of interest  only mortgages for older  customers. He says Santander should have 
offered them  an extension of 10 to 15 years. 
There were significant  changes to the rules on mortgage lending in 2014, following the 
mortgage market  review. I think it would be helpful here if I set out the rules on mortgage 
regulation that Santander had to apply when  Mr W contacted it in 2016.
The regulator (the Financial  Conduct  Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments  of affordability  and, for interest  only mortgages, repayment  strategy  
before lenders agree to enter  into or vary mortgages.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014.  First,  where an 
existing mortgage  is to be varied and theres  no change to its terms likely to be material  to 
affordability. And, if the first exception doesnt  apply,  the lender doesnt have to carry out an 
assessment of affordability  or repayment strategy provided the loan balance hasnt 
increased since 2014 and the proposed change is in the borrowers  best interests. 
The first exception wouldnt have  applied here,  as Mr and Mrs W wanted to change the 
repayment basis and the mortgage  term. Both of these  would  be changes likely  to be 
material to affordability.
However, Santander might have  been able to agree  to vary Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage under 
the second exception.  This allows lenders to extend the term of a mortgage, despite any 
concerns about  affordability or the repayment strategy,  if it would be in the borrowers best 
interests. 
I should say that this doesnt mean Santander  cant consider affordability, and ask for 
information about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  to do so. Santander can fairly take this into 
account when  considering  whats in Mr and Mrs Ws best interests. I should also say that 
while the exception  allows Santander to agree to vary the mortgage despite concerns about  
affordability it isnt required to do so. It could still fairly decline to extend  the term for another 
reason. 
It could be that Mr W is referring to lenders using this exception,  when he says lenders have 
been extending the term of interest only mortgages  for older customers.  And some lenders 
now offer retirement  interest-only mortgages  aimed at older borrowers.
I cant now require Santander  to review Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances, to see if a switch  to 
a capital repayment basis over an extended  term would  be affordable, or if not would  still be 
in their best interests. This isnt possible as Mr and Mrs W have repaid their mortgage. 
What I can look at is what happened  before they repaid  their mortgage.
Mr W says he contacted  Santander many times, visiting  branches and by telephone. He 
hasnt provided  evidence to support this. I can see from Santanders notes that it was 
contacted in March 2013 about a conversion  (to capital  repayment terms, presumably) and 
an extension.  Mr W sent a budget planner.  Santander says it sent a final response letter in 
April 2013, responding to a complaint from Mr and Mrs W about the term ending.
Ref: DRN86858643Santanders records show it spoke  with Mr W in late 2016. Santanders notes say there was 
a discussion about  application  to convert  to repayment & also application  and £75 fee to 
extend the term. 
Mr W says Santander refused his application  without  giving  a reason. Santander says Mr W 
just asked for information and Mr and Mrs W didnt  make  an application to extend  their 
mortgage. 
Its unfortunate there isnt more evidence about what happened when Mr W contacted 
Santander in late 2016. I have to make a decision based on the evidence  that is available. 
On balance, I dont  think I can fairly  find that Santander didnt treat Mr and Mrs W fairly in 
late 2016, in helping them  find a way to repay  their mortgage. It seems Mr and Mrs Ws 
preferred solution  was to extend  the mortgage  term on a repayment basis: Santander gave 
them information about making an application to do this.
Theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs W then made an application. Of course,  Mr and Mrs W 
might have decided  not to proceed because, based on the information Santander gave 
them, they thought their application would be declined. Its also possible Mr and Mrs W did 
make an application  and I simply havent seen evidence of it.
I think its more likely Santander gave  Mr W information about the application process, and 
Mr and Mrs W decided  not to proceed.  At that time,  there  was about six years before  the 
mortgage term was due to expire.  Id expect Santander to remain in contact with Mr and 
Mrs W about their plans  to repay  the mortgage and how it could support them. But Mr and 
Mrs W were also entitled to look into other options  for repaying the mortgage  which is what 
they did.
If Mr and Mrs W had made  an application,  Id expect Santander to consider it fairly, taking 
into account rules on mortgage regulation, to assess whether the changes  they wanted  to 
make to their mortgage would be affordable,  or otherwise in their best interests. Theres no 
evidence that Santander received the information it needed to do this. In the circumstances, 
I dont think I can fairly  find that Santander ought  to have  agreed these changes to Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage. 
Mr W replied to my provisional decision saying theyd lost out because  the new mortgage 
taken out by their son is more expensive than the mortgage  they repaid. He didnt provide 
evidence to support  this.
Mr and Mrs W borrowed the money and they did have to repay  it at the end of the term, in 
2022. I havent seen evidence that they lost out by repaying it early. While Mr W says their 
sons mortgage is more  expensive, he hasnt provided evidence  to support this, such  as the 
mortgage offer or statements showing the payments. Mr W hasnt explained the basis  on 
which he and Mrs W are required to contribute to their sons mortgage. 
Mr W said his sons mortgage is on a repayment basis. Id expect the monthly  payments to 
be more than for an interest only mortgage, as they include a capital repayment  as well as 
interest. Mr and Mrs Ws monthly payments would have increased if theyd switched their 
interest only mortgage onto a repayment basis.
Ref: DRN86858644Mr W offered  to appoint an independent  financial adviser to calculate  their loss. If they had 
chosen to do this, Id have  still needed  to see the evidence  on which the calculation  was 
based. 
Mr and Mrs W said they didnt want to sell their house, as they didnt have  enough equity to 
buy a new home. They  havent said what other options they looked into, why they decided to 
repay the mortgage early, or why they didnt  make an application to Santander for a term 
extension on a capital  repayment basis. 
In the circumstances, I cant fairly find that, due to an error by Santander, Mr and Mrs W 
were put into a position where they needed  to repay their mortgage in this way, which they 
say is expensive.
I know Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed, and I appreciate how strongly they feel about this. 
But, based on the available evidence, I dont think Santander treated them unfairly  and I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require  Santander  to pay compensation. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 February  2021.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8685864