K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited turned down her 
claim under her pet insurance  policy.
My references to Red Sands include its agent.
background
On 10 July 2018 Miss R took her cat to the vet for vaccinations. The vet didnt do the 
vaccinations because the cat had a raised temperature  and Miss R said hed vomited that 
day. He asked her to bring the cat back the following  week. 
On 24 July 2018 Miss R took out a lifetime pet insurance policy with Red Sands to cover  her 
cat. 
Miss R took her cat back to the vet on 25 July 2018. As he still had a raised temperature  
higher than before  the vet took some blood. The results came back  within  normal limits  
and the vet prescribed anti-inflammatory medication  on 26 July 2018.
On 31 July 2018 Miss R took her cat to be checked again by the vet. He still had a raised 
temperature but seemed  content on examination. The vet agreed to vaccinate him. Miss R 
was due to go away on 2 August (with  a friend  and pet sitter  checking in on her cat) and the 
vet advised that they keep an eye on him. 
On 12 August 2018 Miss R returned  from holiday.  Her cat seemed very ill and she took him 
to a veterinary  hospital.  Her cat was diagnosed with septic infectious (bacterial) peritonitis. 
Following surgery and specialist care he was discharged later that month. I understand that 
he fortunately made a good  recovery. The hospital  couldnt find the source of the peritonitis.
Miss R made a claim  to Red Sands  for costs of more than £7,000. But Red Sands turned 
down the claim. It said that Miss Rs cat had shown clinical signs  of illness both before the 
policy started and within  14 days of the start date. This meant that it wasnt covered under 
the policy. 
Miss R says Red Sands hasnt shown the symptoms  her cat had in July were linked to the 
August peritonitis. In support of her position  shes provided evidence  both from her usual vet 
and the specialist vet who treated the cat. In turn Red Sands consulted a vet, who said it 
was likely the symptoms  in July of an infection  were linked to the August peritonitis. Miss R 
came to us. 
Our investigator concluded that Red Sands had made a fair claims decision. Miss R strongly  
disagreed and the complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that Red Sands was entitled to turn down her claim.  
The Red Sands policy says that it wont cover  any claim or costs  for or relating to a pre-
existing condition, which is defined  as:
Ref: DRN83363962Any condition, symptom or sign of a condition  occurring or existing in any form and at 
any time prior to the commencement date; or
Any illness, symptom or sign of an illness occurring or existing in any form during  the 
first 14 days  of the commencement date. 
I need to decide whether Red Sands made  a fair decision to turn down the claim on the 
grounds that the cats illness was pre-existing. It is for Red Sands to show that it can rely on 
the pre-existing condition  exclusion. This doesnt have to be beyond reasonable doubt. 
Rather Red Sands must show, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely than not that 
the clinical signs in July were linked to the septic peritonitis.
To decide this issue Ive considered all the veterinary evidence  including Miss Rs usual vets 
clinical history; his answers to Miss Rs questions about her cats illness;  the hospital report  
and clinical  notes; the hospital  vets statement; and the statement provided  by the vet 
consulted by Red Sands.  Ive also considered  all the comments  made both by Miss R and 
Red Sands. I dont need additional information from Miss R to decide this complaint. 
I think Red Sands has done enough  to show, on balance, its likely  the clinical signs  the cat 
showed in July were  linked  to the septic peritonitis. Ill explain my findings, focusing on what  
I see to be the central issues.  
Miss R was aware that her cat had some symptoms including  vomiting (10 July)  and a high 
temperature in the period  before  she took out the policy, together  with a continued high 
temperature, weight  loss, being picky about  his food and lethargy within  the first 14 days  of 
the policy starting. 
The hospital  case  report says that when the cat was admitted to hospital on 12 August he 
had signs of weight  loss, lethargy, muscle wastage,  swollen  abdomen  and inappetence. So 
the cat had many of the same  symptoms as hed shown in July. 
Miss R argues that her cats peritonitis was a separate  illness  and isnt linked to the 
symptoms shown by her cat in July. In particular, she points out there were no concerns 
about her cats abdomen on examination and that the blood test results were within normal  
limits. 
Ive considered her comments, together with those  made by Miss Rs vet and the specialist 
vet in response to questions put to them by Miss R. 
The hospital  specialist vet who saw and treated the cat gave an answer to a specific point 
about whether  an episode of hyperthermia  and vomiting on the 10th of July is definitely 
related to the presentation in August. In response to this the specialist vet said it wasnt 
related because the 10 July episode responded to an anti-inflammatory injection;  it was 
extremely unlikely for the 10 July episode to be related to the septic  peritonitis diagnosed a 
month later, as the cat would have died if suffering from that or a related condition a month  
before; and the cat didnt have an underlying gastro-intestinal cause for the septic  peritonitis 
so the July episode of raised temperature and vomiting are extremely unlikely to be related 
to the August diagnosis. 
The specialist vet hasnt  given an opinion about the later symptoms including continued  high 
temperature until the end of July, the weight loss, picky eating and lethargy. 
Ref: DRN83363963The hospital  report  sets out the history including that hed vomited  and had a high 
temperature on 10 July, the continued  high temperature on 17 July, that the cats 
temperature had normalised at the point of vaccination and that when they returned from 
holiday on 12 August  the cat wasnt  himself  with significant weight loss, a swollen abdomen 
and was very lethargic. 
But the clinical records show that the cats temperature had not normalised at the point of 
vaccination. Miss Rs usual vet had said it was still high at 103.3, but he agreed to vaccinate 
because the cat appeared well and comfortable, including the abdomen, at examination. 
The evidence is that the cats temperature had not been normal  at any of the July 2018 
appointments. The vet consulted  by Red Sands said that the continued pyrexia (fever  or 
high temperature)  across the July appointments is important, taken together with his vets 
concerns about  a grumbling problem  because  the cats temperature  was consistently 
abnormal and his significant weight loss. Red Sands  vet thought  the evidence  was 
consistent with the cat having had an infection,  which progressed  to septic peritonitis.  The 
cause wasnt found but this is often  the case, with peritonitis developing weeks after the 
initial infection (by which time the original lesion  has healed). But this doesnt mean the 
symptoms consistent  with an infection, regardless of cause, werent already present. 
Ive read Miss Rs usual  vets comments made  in response to the questions she put to him. I 
appreciate that he saw and treated her cat, as did the specialist vet. He commented on the 
weight loss being relative compared to the size of the patient. In this case  the cat had lost 
around 500g or 10% of his body weight within a few weeks. 
Miss Rs vet discussed the difference between viral and bacterial septic  peritonitis, and why 
he thought it was reasonably improbable that a condition could last 32 days (from 10 July 
to 12 August). He said the normal white blood  cell count on 25 July would suggest that 
whatever was present  in his body was coping  with it at this point.  He said that the source  of 
the peritonitis  wasnt identified  during surgery so any comment  on the cause would be 
speculative. And he hadnt experienced a case  lasting  so long and developing such a severe  
outcome, so he couldnt rule out there being  two separate incidents. He said Peritonitis 
usually develops within a few days of a sufficiently  aggressive infection developing so clearly 
this degree of infection was not present until shortly before the cat presented at the hospital.
In response to Miss Rs question about  the likelihood of two illnesses being  connected  he 
said hes not seen  a case like this but as we dont have a period where  we have recorded a 
normal temperature I guess it would be possible to argue either  the same  condition was 
present throughout or the first condition  permitted the second condition to develop because  
the body was preoccupied or had reduced  resistance  due to dealing with the initial issue.
But as Miss Rs cats temperature hadnt returned to normal  by 31 July 2018 and he had 
developed peritonitis on 12 August 2018  I think the comments  both by Red Sands vet and 
by Miss Rs vets suggest that the cat had an underlying condition. Its possible that there 
were two separate conditions. But taking into account the comments of the treating vets Im 
persuaded by the argument  made by Red Sands vet, that is, that the combination  of high 
temperature and weight  loss in the period  to 31 July 2018 suggests  its more likely than not 
that the cat had been fighting an infection  with the ill heath preceding  the full blown 
peritonitis. 
Ive read Miss Rs comments about  the timing  of the vets visits and taking out the policy.  
Theres no suggestion she could  have known the cat might suffer such a serious illness.  But 
Ref: DRN83363964she did know her cat had vomited and had a temperature before  she took out the policy, 
which delayed his vaccinations. The cat continued  to have symptoms within the 14 days 
after she took out the policy, which might  lead to a claim.  I think  Red Sands  has done 
enough to show,  on balance, its more likely than not that the cats peritonitis followed on 
from the signs and symptoms of illness hed shown  within 14 days  of the policy  being  taken 
out. That being so, I think it made a fair decision not to pay her claim.  
I know this will come as a further disappointment. Miss R can choose to reject my final 
decision. If she does  so then it is not binding on her or Red Sands. She is then able to 
pursue any legal remedies open  to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2020.
Amanda Maycock 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8336396