K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Chubb European Group SEs decision to decline  his claim. 
background
Mr S had an accident policy with Chubb.  In August 2017, he injured himself at home causing 
damage to his left knee.  He claimed  on his policy because he was unable to work, but 
Chubb declined  his claim.
Chubb said it did so because it was not satisfied that the injury Mr S sustained was solely 
and independently caused by the accident. 
I agreed with Chubb and set out my findings in my provisional decision (copy  attached  
below). In summary,  I found that Mr S had suffered with osteoarthritis  for a number of years  
and that this caused significant deterioration  in both knees over a progressive period. It was 
because of this I felt his complaint should not be upheld  because  he did not meet the 
policy terms.
I gave Mr S and Chubb the opportunity to supply further evidence  prior to reaching my final 
decision. Chubb did not add anything but Mr S did. In summary, he said;
He did not have a knee replacement  surgery following the accident. Instead it was a 
hip replacement. He also mentioned that he may need further surgery  later down the 
line and;
He felt it was unfair for Chubb  to assume  the injury he sustained to his knee should 
have healed after six weeks.  
And so its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional points raised by Mr S but Im not persuaded that Chubb  needs 
to do anything more  here.  Ill explain why.
The injury  Mr S sustained was to his left knee. The medical evidence Ive seen  suggested he 
needed to undergo knee  replacement surgery some ten months  prior to the accident, but 
owing to other health concerns, this was not possible at the time. 
I take on board Mr S said he ended up needing a total hip replacement,  but Ive seen no 
evidence from him that connects that with the accident in August where his left knee  was 
damaged. And so I do not think this makes  a difference to my provisional findings  because 
its a different area altogether.  
Mr S policy is designed  to pay out should he be injured in an accident during the period of 
insurance. To be clear, this happened and Chubb paid him six weeks worth of benefit.  But 
the other part of the policy provided cover  for total disablement  should that injury have 
caused Mr S to be totally disabled afterwards. Ive not seen any evidence  that this happened 
Ref: DRN89851152and the latest  submission  from Mr S further persuades  me that incident  did not cause him to 
become totally disabled.
Mr S also suffers  with osteoarthritis which would have impacted his recovery period. This 
was an on-going medical condition which is not covered by this type of policy. And so I still 
think Chubb acted  fairly  by paying  him six weeks worth  of benefit for the reasons I outlined  
in my provisional findings. Ive not seen  any other  medical opinion that successfully 
challenges its position here and so I do not think it needs to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89851153[copy of provision  decision]
complaint
Mr S is unhappy Chubb  European  Group SE has declined his claim.
background
Mr S injured  himself at home in August 2017. He said that since then, hes been unable to work due 
to the injury  he sustained to his left knee. Mr S was a lorry driver and said that he can no longer 
work because  hes unable to climb  in and out of the cab. Mr S submitted a claim  under  his accident 
and disability  policy but it was not fully accepted.  Mr S was paid six weeks worth of benefit as 
Chubb said this is how long he was temporarily incapacitated  for.
Mr S would like his claim for total disability to be reconsidered and ultimately for Chubb to pay 
him benefit for total disablement.
Chubb said it paid Mr S six weeks worth of benefit because it believed this was a fair offer. It said 
that Mr S suffered  with osteoarthritis in both knees prior to the accident and therefore  could not be 
satisfied that the injuries he sustained were independent of any other cause. Chubbs offer was 
based on the assessment that it would  typically  take an able-bodied person around six weeks to 
recover. That is to say someone who doesnt suffer with osteoarthritis should, ordinarily, recover 
within that timeframe.
Our investigator upheld Mr S complaint. She agreed that Mr S had suffered from a pre-existing 
medical condition, but noted he was still able to work  despite  this up until the accident in August. 
And so because  Mr S was unable to work after that, she believed Chubb should accept  his claim 
total disablement.
Chubb did not agree  and highlighted Mr S medical  records  which suggested Mr S was due to have 
knee replacement surgery prior to the accident. It further  suggested Mr S suffered from knee pain 
and found it difficult to walk because  of the worsening  of his osteoarthritis. Chubb once again  drew  
attention to its terms and suggested that Mr S does not satisfy the term mentioned above.
And so its for to make  a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all arguments, I disagree with the view reached by our investigator. I 
say that mainly because Im not satisfied that Mr S has met the terms of the policy and so I do not 
think Chubb has unreasonably rejected the claim for total disability. Ill explain why.
Chubb said;
the Accident Disability Plus Plan provides cover  if you sustain a Bodily Injury
solely and independently  of any other cause , and within 30 days from the date of the accident 
causing the Bodily  Injury continuously, necessarily and wholly disable the insured and prevent the 
Insured from performing each and every duty of the Insureds usual business  or occupation
In the particular circumstances of this case, its accepted Mr S sustained  an injury  to his knee in 
August 2017  following a fall at home. But Chubb is not persuaded this was solely
and independent of any other  cause. Having carefully considered the information Chubb has relied  
on to reach its position  on this claim,  I do not think its being unreasonable.
Ref: DRN89851154Mr S medical records show  he suffers  from osteoarthritis and that in October  2016  some
10 months before  the accident   Mr S was suffering  with this condition in both knees.  I
noticed a referral from Mr S GP to specialist  quickly followed.  Part of the referral  said;
 [Mr S] is having increasing discomfort in his left knee. This has been a problem  for several years 
now He is walking with a limp There is clinically  definitely  significant  osteoarthritis which  is more 
pronounced on the left hand  side. I note an x-ray from 2013 showed wear in both knees
I wanted to draw attention to this because it successfully demonstrates that Mr S had suffered 
with knee  problems  as early  as 2013  but perhaps more  importantly, in October  2016,  things 
were getting  worse. So much so that Mr S GP believed the best way forward at this point was for 
Mr S to receive a complete knee replacement  to alleviate his symptoms.
Unfortunately for Mr S, this was not possible at the time owing to other health concerns  and so it was 
put on hold for six months,  until March 2017  five months  before the accident. But the medical  
records suggest Mr S was still not ready for the surgery. It was not until after the accident  that he 
was deemed medically operable as the other health concerns had been resolved.
The medical  history shows Mr S is a gentleman that has had an on-going  history of knee problems 
before the accident at home and so I think its fair that Chubb  recognise this when considering his 
claim for total disablement. And because of this, Chubb is able to rely on this information  to fairly 
decline his claim because it suggests  the total disablement claimed  for is not independent  of any 
other cause.
Id like to make  clear that Im not disputing  whether Mr S is recognised as disabled for the purposes 
of this complaint. Mr S has explained hes in receipt of regular disability payments,
but that alone does not satisfactorily demonstrate that the accident he had was independent
from any other cause. And for the purposes on my decision, that is the test Im applying here 
because that is what Chubbs terms say.
The other  part of Mr S complaint is about the payment he received from Chubb  for the immediate  
disablement that followed  the accident. The policy he has is designed to pay a benefit  amount for 
the time hes unable to work  due to the recovery  period from his injury.  Chubb  accepted Mr S injured 
himself at home in August.  And although  its declined the total disablement  claim   for the reasons  
Ive already explained  it accepted  his claim for the injury and the immediate  disablement  that 
followed. Chubb paid Mr S for what it considered to be a fair period of recovery  which was a 
period six weeks.
I thought carefully about  Chubbs position here. Chubb is effectively saying that had Mr S not suffered 
from existing knee problems, its likely he would have been disabled for the first six weeks that 
followed the accident in August  which  is why it paid that benefit  to Mr S. Ive seen the evidence  
from Chubbs chief medical  officer to support that this would likely be the case and so Im satisfied  
this is fair. I take on board Mr S argument that hes still unable to work  due to disablement. But Im 
persuaded the accident  in August alone is not solely responsible for that.
my provisional  decision
Given my provisional findings, Im thinking of rejecting Mr S complaint  because  I do not think Chubb 
has declined his claim for total disablement unfairly.
Ref: DRN8985115