K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the poor service from the appointed agents  of Mortgage 
Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) when they applied  for a new mortgage  product on their 
property that had originally been  bought  with the assistance of the Help to Buy scheme
background
Mr and Mrs L used MAB  when they bought  their property in 2015  and went back  to them in 
late 2017 about taking out a new mortgage product when their existing one came to an end 
on 30 April 2018. The MAB mortgage  adviser recommended  a mortgage offer with a new 
lender and an offer was issued dated  the 25 April 2018 which Mr and Mrs L accepted. But 
the mortgage didnt complete until 7 September 2018.
Mr and Mrs L found themselves paying interest on the Standard Variable Rate (SVR) from 
1 May 2018  until 7 September 2018  and feel that either MAB or the Help to Buy 
administrator should be responsible for the extra interest that they paid during this period.  Mr 
and Mrs L brought  a complaint against the Help to Buy administrator and after our 
investigator issued  a view, agreed a settlement whereby they recovered  part of the extra 
interest they paid during this period.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as he felt that MAB 
had dealt with the mortgage application within a reasonable period and wasnt responsible 
for the subsequent delay. Mr and Mrs L disagreed and asked for a review
My provisional findings
I reviewed the evidence in this complaint  and issued my Provisional Decision. I summarise  
my findings  as follows:
I noted that when  Mr and Mrs L approached MAB in December 2017 they wanted to secure  
a new mortgage  product  by the time their present one terminated on 30 April 2018.  MAB  
said that on 5 March 2018 it provided Mr and Mrs L with two KFIs, one for the existing 
lender and one for the new lender. MAB said that the fixed  interest rates  and monthly 
payments were identical for both products although  my understanding was that the existing  
lender then amended its offer making the new lender more  competitive. 
I noted that to switch  lender required the involvement of a solicitor to secure the mortgage 
for the new lender and the complication  of the involvement of the Help to Buy scheme which  
had to process and approve an application  for a deed of postponement. My view was that 
this meant  that by choosing a product with a new lender,  given when the application began,  
that Mr and Mrs L would be unlikely to get the new mortgage drawn down before 1 May 
2018 to avoid their interest rate going  on the SVR.
But I said that there was no evidence that MAB raised the likelihood  or possibility that there 
would be unable to do this until very late in the process. I noted that a mortgage  offer issued 
on 27 April 2018 and that the application  and offer seemed to have been  processed in a 
reasonable time period.  But I said that the issuing  of the mortgage offer wasnt the end of the 
Ref: DRN84820272matter as the mortgage couldnt be drawn down until the solicitors  issued a certificate of title. 
In fact it wasnt drawn down until 7 September.
I noted that the first time that timescale was mentioned by MAB  was in an email of 27 April 
following issue of the mortgage offer when the adviser told Mrs L  can  I recommend that you 
contact the solicitors to see how long it will take them  to be able to process the re-mortgage. 
Mrs L did so and the solicitor told her it would take 5-7 weeks.  I noted that there was no 
evidence that MAB  suggested any alternative rather than continuing with the offer that was 
issued that day. So I noted that Mr and Mrs L went ahead with the offer that the new lender 
had issued.
I noted  20 April Mr and Mrs L also became aware  from the solicitor  that they needed to pay 
£240 for a second charge  which  was an expense that they hadnt  been aware of and then 
later £115  administration fee to the Help to Buy scheme. 
I said that the timescales of completion  would  be different if Mr and Mrs L completed with 
their existing lender  or if they transferred  to another lender. There  were complications 
involved with going to a new lender rather than staying with their existing lender. Firstly, it 
would have involved a solicitor satisfying the new lender that the title was good security.  
Secondly that any requirements  of the Help to Buy scheme were complied with which  meant 
liaising and satisfying the requirements of the scheme which would take time.
My view was that MAB in preparing their recommendation  between  the products  of different 
lenders should  have  considered the likely  completion dates which  could have a potential 
cost to Mr and Mrs L. I said that I believed that MAB  should have advised Mr and Mrs L that 
they may not be able to complete on 1 May, and should have suggested  to them  that they 
take advice at an early  stage on when it was likely to complete - rather  than leave it to 27 
April - so they could decide on their choice between competing lenders based on that 
information. 
I noted that although there was a substantial delay in the completion of this re-mortgage and 
that MAB  was in no way responsible for that. But I said that it should have alerted Mr and 
Mrs L well in advance when they had choices that one of their choices was likely to result  in 
completion not happening  by 1 May. So, on that basis I said that I believed that MAB was at 
fault.
I pointed out how MAB  had the time to have dealt with this differently which  wouldnt have 
caused Mr and Mrs L financial loss. So, I said that it was fair that MAB compensate Mr and 
Mrs L for the extra interest that they paid for six weeks - which is a compromise between 5-7 
weeks - that they were  on the SVR.  I noted that Mr and Mrs L received some  compensation 
for delay  from a separate complaint but the compensation  awarded  didnt cover this initial 
period. I also said that given their financial situation  and given the efforts  that they made to 
avoid being on the SVR that this would have  been a distressful time for them and I believed 
that an award of £500 would fairly compensate  them for that. My view was that MAB 
shouldnt be responsible for the extra costs associated with the Help to Buy scheme as the 
adviser made clear  in the suitability  letter that he wasnt giving any advice in respect  of the 
Help to Buy loan.
So, I indicated that my intention was to uphold the complaint and to require MAB to pay Mr 
and Mrs L the difference between the amount  that Mr and Mrs L paid in interest  for six 
weeks from 1 May 2018 on the existing lenders SVR and the interest they would have paid 
Ref: DRN84820273had they transferred lenders on 1 May 2018 together  with interest on that and a further sum 
of £500 for their trouble  and upset
I issued my Provisional  Decision and invited further submissions from Mr and Mrs L and 
MAB. Both parties replied to my invitation and Ive considered these in my decision below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L asked that I consider lengthening the period of compensation as MAB should 
have been aware  of difficulties with the Help to Buy scheme as it was well advertised  in the 
press at the time. MAB says that I didnt take into account delays caused by Mr and Mrs L in 
failing to provide  documentation to the Help to Buy scheme provider. MAB says that the 
provider chased  Mr and Mrs L for documentation on 18 May but this wasnt received until 20 
June so I need to consider Mr and Mrs Ls failure to act which  would have shortened the 
delay.
Although Mr and Mrs L tell me that the problems with the Help to Buy provider  were  well 
known at the time, they havent provided  me with any such  evidence. On the other hand 
MAB say that some of the delay after the 1 May was Mr and Mrs Ls fault. But I havent 
investigated the causes of delay  after the 1 May. My point is that this wasnt going to 
complete on 1 May and according  to Mr and Mrs Ls solicitor it was in the normal course of 
events going to take five to seven weeks after that in any case.  It was MABs failure to alert 
Mr and Mrs L to this and advise them in good time when they had other options that I find 
MAB at fault. As Ive said above I dont hold MAB at fault for any delay after 1 May and so I 
havent had to consider or investigate  any contribution to that delay (if any) that was caused 
by Mr and Mrs L.
Ive reviewed my Provisional Decision in the light of these further submissions  but Im of the 
view that it represents  a fair outcome  to this complaint and so I uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Mortgage  Advice Bureau Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs L the difference between the amount  that they paid in interest for six weeks 
from 1 May 2018 on their existing lenders SVR and the interest they would have paid had 
they transferred  lenders on 1 May 2018 together with interest at 8% per annum on that. It 
should also pay Mr and Mrs L a further sum of £500  for their trouble and upset. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8482027