K820x#14complaint
Mr H is bringing  a complaint on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs H. He says that 
National Westminster Bank Plc is responsible for the losses incurred on Mrs Hs account  
when her son (Mr Hs brother) stole thousands of pounds from her. 
There are several parties involved  in the complaint. Mrs H has now sadly passed away and 
the complaint  being brought involves the activity on her account  between 2012 and 2016. 
Mr H is the representative  and is also Mrs Hs son. Mr H accuses  D (also  Mrs Hs son) of 
taking money from Mrs Hs account.  J is Mrs Hs daughter, she acted as Mrs Hs Power  of 
Attorney (POA)  from 2003 but this wasnt registered with NatWest  until August 2012.  D also 
held POA between  2012 and 2016, this wasnt ever registered with NatWest.
background
Mrs H originally held a joint account  with her husband. Mrs Hs husband  passed  away  and 
the account became a sole account in Mrs Hs name  in July 2007. 
In August  2012  J (Mrs Hs daughter) was added as a POA to Mrs Hs bank account  with 
NatWest and she remained the POA on the account  until Mrs Hs passed away  in January 
2017.
However, In October  2012 one of Mrs Hs sons (D) was appointed  as a POA.  NatWest 
wasnt informed of this so this and the POA wasnt ever registered with the bank. Mr H isnt 
sure why this wasnt registered with NatWest. He says D was registered as POA  with other 
bank accounts  that Mrs H held.
Mr H says he and D went into branch with Mrs H in 2012 and changed the address for 
correspondence and statements.  NatWests records show that on in September 2012 Mrs H 
requested for statements  to be sent to her and not to her POA.  The address change  was to 
Mrs Hs home address although its not clear if the address on the account  was ever Js 
address. But they say as a result J didnt  receive  any correspondence on Mrs Hs account.
Mr H says he and J didnt  have the opportunity to intervene with Mrs Hs finances before 
2016, when she went into a home.  Mr H and J say they were  not aware of any financial 
abuse until after 2016. There are no longer any outstanding debts or bills on Mrs Hs estate 
as these were settled on the repossession  of Mrs Hs home. 
Sadly Mrs H passed away in January 2017 and Mr H raised issues with NatWest in August 
2017. Mr H believes D was taking  advantage  of Mrs H and spending her money for his own 
gain between 2012 and 2016.  Although  Mr H believes the transactions  during this time were 
all made by D he is particularly concerned  with the account activity between 20 November 
and 29 December 2014, following a credit from the sale of Mrs Hs home.  Mr H says 
£114,500 was withdrawn or spent by D. He thinks this is when NatWest ought  to have 
noticed something wasnt right and he thinks  NatWest  should refund this amount to Mrs Hs 
estate as it ought to have  stopped these transactions. 
Mr H believes  that some payments were  made  to accounts held outside  the UK. Mr H says 
this, in combination  with the high value of the transactions, ought to have put the bank on 
notice.
Ref: DRN84976702NatWest has said that information  and documentation surrounding  these payments is limited  
given the time that has passed  since they were made. It didnt  have any POA for D despite  
him having been granted this by the Office of Public Guardian in 2012 It also cant evidence 
when online banking  was set up on the account. It says it never had any contact  from J 
despite her being  the registered POA  on the account during the period of the disputed 
activity. In summary NatWest said the following:
-NatWest believes all online transfers  were  made  to UK based accounts.
-NatWest, in its final response,  said the transfers  from Mrs Hs account  were not 
considered suspicious  activity  and online banking had been  accessed correctly to 
carry out the transactions.
-NatWest did not think  it had acted incorrectly in any way. 
Ive listed transactions  below that Mr Hs specifically says NatWest ought  to refund. There  
are other transactions on the account in between those listed  below, but Mr H hasnt 
disputed these. 
Date Type of transaction amount
20/11/14 CHAPS credit (£118,645)
20/11/14 Online Ref: EON £3,500
20/11/14 Online ref: D H £15,000
21/11/14 Online Ref: D H 10,000
24/11/14 Online Ref: EON £10,000
26/11/14 Online Ref: DH £10,000
28/11/14 Online Ref: D H £15,000
02/12/14 Online Ref: D H £20,000
03/12/14 Card transaction IG.com £1,500
05/12/14 Online Ref: EON £2,500
05/12/14 Card transaction FCM currency £2,000
08/12/14 Online Ref: D H £10,000
09/12/14 Online Ref: D H £4,500
23/12/14 Online Ref: D H £10,000
29/12/14 Card transaction IG.com £500
Total spent £114,500
One of our adjudicators looked  into things.  She concluded that NatWest hadnt  been on 
notice that Mrs Hs health was deteriorating.  A POA  had been put in place but this named  
Mrs Hs daughter  J and there was no evidence to show  J ever contacted  NatWest  about 
the account during the time she was the POA. The adjudicator also concluded  that various 
pieces of security information would have  been needed for the online transactions to take 
place. The POA  would have had access to these  as well as Mrs H. The payee  for the online  
payments (D) had existed on the account since January 2013 so this didnt  raise  any 
suspicions when some of the disputed payments were made to him in November and 
December 2014.
Mr H responded to say D took complete control of Mrs Hs finances. He then stole her 
money. He said it was clear from statements that he took the money from her account for his 
own gain and all the transfers were made by him. Mrs H was manipulated by him.
Ref: DRN84976703my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken 
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
Ive started by considering whether or I not I think Mrs H authorised the payments.
Sadly, were  not able to speak to Mrs H to help us determine what happened  and Mr H has 
admitted he wasnt privy to any arrangements  between Mrs H and D during the time of these 
transactions. Without this I have to determine on balance what I think  is more likely  than not 
to have happened, which, in these circumstances, is particularly challenging. 
Looking at Mrs Hs statements between 2012 and 2016 there are a mixture of card 
payments, cash withdrawals, transfers and credits in to the account. I can see that there are 
transfers to what appears to be an account  in Ds name but there are also credits from D, as 
well as general spending at supermarkets and other retailers. This suggests  Mrs H was 
benefitting from at least some of the transactions and payments on the account and this may 
have been something Mrs H and D agreed to, well never know. But Ive not seen evidence  
to suggest Mrs Hs day to day living costs were being met elsewhere.
NatWest accepts its possible, as do I, that Mrs H may not have physically  made all the 
transactions herself, including  the online payments in 2014 that Mr H disputes  as being 
genuine. But that doesnt mean that NatWest  is liable to refund them. 
If Mrs H gave D authority to use her account, or handed over her payment instruments (her 
card and PIN or online  banking information), and D used these as an extension of her 
authority, then the bank is entitled to treat the account activity as being  authorised  and 
therefore entitled to debit  Mrs Hs account.   
Mr H feels strongly  that D was taking advantage of Mrs H and that she wouldnt have agreed 
to many of the things  that he did, including the sale of her house and the spending  of many 
thousands of pounds on debts D had accrued. I have no doubt  that Mr H wishes  to pursue D 
for his wrongdoing, but here Im looking at whether  its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to hold NatWest responsible for this. 
NatWest have been able to provide statements dating back to 2002, showing payments to D. 
This is when  it was a joint account  so at a time when Mrs H and her husband were jointly 
active on the account. Whilst I cant know what arrangements were in place with Mrs H, her 
husband and D at the time, I do think this evidences  that they likely authorised payments to 
their son, willingly sending  money  to him on several  occasions.
Ref: DRN84976704Without speaking  to Mrs H its extremely difficult to know if the disputed transactions  took 
place with or without  her consent, or knowledge, or if she willingly gave D all the information 
he would  need  to make  transactions on her account. But looking  at the circumstances  as a 
whole I think its fair and reasonable that NatWest debited Mrs Hs account and treated the 
activity on her account as authorised. 
I can understand why Mr H has concerns with the large spending on Mrs Hs account 
following the credit  in November 2014.  But without Mrs Hs testimony  we are never going to 
know the full extent of the relationship and agreement  between D and Mrs H. It appears  on 
the face of it that some  sort of agreement was in place between  them.  Given  this uncertainty,  
I dont think it would  be fair to ask NatWest to refund the disputed  spending.  And D had been 
granted a POA and appears  to have been acting  on Mrs Hs behalf during this time. So even 
if the bank had spoken to Mrs H, or D, then I think the POA would have, at this point, been 
registered and the payments all confirmed as genuine because  of this arrangement.
NatWests actions
There are circumstances  however, irrespective  of the payment channel used, where a bank 
should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, 
before processing  a payment,  or in some  cases decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility  of financial harm.   
In this case, I need to decide  whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mrs H when these  payments debited her account or whether it should have done  more 
than it did. 
I havent seen  any evidence that the transactions in dispute were made to accounts outside  
the UK. So Im not persuaded the disputed transactions in 2014 are unusual for these 
particular reasons.
Mr H believes  the transactions in 2014  are unusual  and so much  so that NatWest ought  to 
have prevented them. Ive looked  at these transactions  and I agree they do look unusual 
compared to the previous account  activity, in terms of value. But as the account  holder 
Mrs H was of course authorised to act on the account and Office of Public Guardian had 
appointed D to act on her behalf as well. Although I appreciate Ds POA hadnt been  
registered with NatWest, if Mrs Hs actions had been  questioned or concern raised I think the 
most likely outcome would have  been  that D would have registered his POA (as he had with 
other banks)  and so I cant see that this would  have resulted in a different outcome.
The Office  of Public Guardian granted a POA to D. And this arrangement  appears  to have 
been in place for four years. I havent seen any evidence that Mrs H raised any concerns  
with NatWest during  this time and neither did any other party, including  J who was registered 
as the POA with NatWest.  So Im not persuaded NatWest were on notice that anything was 
wrong with the operation of Mrs Hs account  or the payments leaving it during this time.
I appreciate that Mr H feels strongly that D took advantage of Mrs H and spent money  that 
he shouldnt have. And Im not saying that this did or didnt happen.  I know  that Mr H has 
spoken with Police  and engaged solicitors in attempts to address Ds actions. But my role is 
to decide if its fair to hold NatWest responsible here and I dont think  it is.
Ref: DRN84976705my final decision
As Ive set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8497670