K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs unhappy about the way MBNA Limited  has dealt with him.
background
Mr R says hes a signatory on a third partys account with another bank  in which  he can 
deposit and withdraw money. He says he regularly  pays money into it and uses  this other 
account to pay off his MBNA monthly credit card bills. Hes unhappy  that after the other bank 
recalled the last years  payments from MBNA hes been left with a large debt on his MBNA 
account. He says MBNA has caused him undue pressure and stress.
MBNA said in its final response that on 4 January 2018 itd received an indemnity claim from 
another bank  recalling  payments made to Mr Rs account totalling  £13,416.28.  Its unable to 
stop this request as its part of the terms and of the Direct Debit  Guarantee. Because  the 
direct debit was set for the full amount  of the card balance the instruction was looking to 
collect a total of just over £13,797 or so on 5 March 2018. Itd also credited Mr Rs account 
with £50 because  of some poor service he received. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said any complaint about  the 
reclaiming of these payments needs  to be made  by the other banks account holder to the 
other bank.  MBNA was obliged under the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme  to repay  the 
money to the other bank and also to apply these amounts onto his MBNA card account.
Mr R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says he didnt
agree the payments into his account from a third party could be voided. And he shouldnt
have to pay MBNA twice.  It shouldve  told him what was going  on so he could resolve 
matters. He thinks the other bank has acted unlawfully.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
The terms and conditions  of the Direct Debit Guarantee say that MBNA  is obliged to 
immediately return payments made to a bank that paid them if that bank thinks
something has gone wrong  and asks for them back.
Thats what  happened here. The other  bank  asked MBNA to repay  the payments itd made  
into Mr Rs card account. And I dont think MBNA has done  anything wrong by responding to 
that indemnity  request by repaying some £13,797  to the other  bank.
When the payments  received from the other  bank  were recalled Mr Rs MBNA account was 
debited those amounts  and he became liable for the outstanding balance. And its entitled to 
seek payment of this outstanding balance from him and was entitled  to send him a default  
letter as this reflected  the state of his account at that time.
Mr Rs clearly unhappy that the other  bank recalled  these  payments. But thats not
something I can consider  in this complaint. It will be up to Mr R to get the account  holder  to
take up his concerns with the other bank.
Ref: DRN82731382MBNA has credited  Mr Rs account  with £50 compensation after it mixed  up the identity of 
the other bank in correspondence. Thats fair.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Rs frustration, I dont think MBNA has done anything  wrong  
and I cant fairly or reasonably ask it to do anything differently. And I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN8273138