K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Cyprus UK Limited  made unlawful deductions from his account 
from 2007 which amount  to just over £3,784.
background
Mr F says he opened the Bank of Cyprus  account  in 2007 and set up a standing  order of 
£700 to be paid into it. He says a mortgage payment of about  £571 was deducted every 
month and he often withdrew  about a £100  which shouldve  left about £28 a month in the 
account. Mr F says that money is unaccounted for and amounts to about  £3,784  which he 
wants refunded.
Bank of Cyprus doesnt accept making  a mistake and says the mortgage payment is variable 
and says Mr F has been charged  interest  and charges.  It says before any deductions are 
made its provided details  of them to Mr F as well as regular statements.
Mr F brought  his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt  uphold it. She thought  the 
mortgage amount  was variable and Mr Fs account was overdrawn from the start and so 
charges and interest were deducted. She also thought Mr F had been notified of the 
deductions and had been given regular account statements.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and says there  is no evidence to support the adjudicators 
conclusions. He maintains that Bank  of Cyprus has taken his money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator for the same reasons.  I realise Mr F will be disappointed by 
my decision.  I also make  it clear  to him that Im not looking at the other complaints he raised  
as I can see that hes accepted  the adjudicators view on those.
Ive looked at the first account statement from 2007 and can see that there  was an 
arrangement fee which meant the account  was overdrawn from the start. I accept that Mr F 
has made regular  payments into the account  but Im satisfied the outgoings on the account 
have exceeded  the money he paid in. So I dont think there is a monthly surplus  as Mr F 
believes.
Im satisfied that Bank of Cyprus has told Mr F about  deductions  being  made  from the 
account  in advance of them being taken. Im also satisfied that hes been given regular 
account statements. I wouldve expected Mr F to monitor the account and check if enough  
money was being  deposited into it to cover the outgoings. I appreciate  Mr F says there isnt 
any evidence to support  the adjudicators view. But whilst Im sorry to disagree I think  the 
statements and notice  of charges do provide evidence and explain why there  isnt a monthly 
surplus. 
Overall I dont think Bank of Cyprus  has made  a mistake here or acted unfairly. I dont think 
its unlawfully  deducted money from Mr Fs account. But has acted in line with the account 
terms and conditions which Im satisfied Mr F wouldve agreed to when  the account was 
opened.
Ref: DRN81899912my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8189991