K822xcomplaint
Mrs S, who is represented by her husband,  Mr S, complains that Black Horse  Limited  
refused to let her reject a car.
background 
In January 2018 Mrs S bought a second hand car funded by a hire purchase agreement  with 
Black Horse.  It was some eight months old and had done 4,501  miles. She encountered 
some problems and contacted  Black Horse in late October 2018. It contacted the dealer 
which supplied job cards showing various  repairs had been carried out under warranty.  It 
also said that for some issues it could  find no fault.  However Black Horse  awarded her £450  
for the inconvenience  she had suffered.
Later in January 2019 Mrs S raised a further complaint with Black  Horse about several new 
issues. It asked the dealer  about  these and it said that the stop start was working as it 
should and the tracking  and seals were not issues which had been present at the point of 
sale.
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators recommended the business pay Mrs S compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience suffered during the first few months of the agreement. She thought the £450 
offered by Black Horse was sufficient. Mr S didnt agree and said the dealer had kept the car 
for long periods of time and he had to take it back for the repairs  to be completed properly. 
In April 2019 he agreed to part exchange the car for another one. 
Mr S felt that the payment  of £450  was only sufficient to cover  the first months of his wifes 
ownership of the car. He suggested  six months  payments  be returned to recognise the 
problems they had with the car. He added that often  the courtesy car supplied was too small 
for their needs and he had had to hire taxis. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Black Horse  is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
Ref: DRN84226552involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have reviewed the list of issues  reported  by Mr H to the dealer. I have also seen the job 
sheets which  dealt  with those issues. Black Horse  is only responsible for the any faults that 
were present  at the point of sale. This means that later issues  such  as the tracking which are 
unlikely to have  been present at the point of sale fall outside the business responsibility. Nor 
is it responsible for any damage Mr S says was caused by the dealer  when  repairing his car.
Looking at the list of issues  I am satisfied that these have been addressed by the dealer 
either by repair  or by explaining that there  is no fault. However,  I recognise  that for a nearly 
new car the list of issues was unreasonably long and also that Mrs S was without her car for 
periods of time. I also take note that the courtesy car supplied  by the garage on some  
occasions wasnt suitable.
I dont consider this is a case where rejection is merited and in any event the car has been 
sold. However, for those  few issues, as set out by the bank in its letter of 1 May, for which  it 
is responsible I believe  that Mrs S is entitled  to compensation. I appreciate  Mr S is looking at 
all the issues he and his wife have had to deal with, but the bank isnt responsible  for all of 
these. Therefore I consider the sum of £450  is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
Black Horse  Limited has already made an offer to pay £450 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Black Horse  Limited  
should pay £450 if it has not already done  so. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept  or reject  my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8422655