K820x#14Complaint
The estate  of the late Mrs W has complained that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (trading as 
the Post Office)  wont investigate unauthorised  transactions on Mrs Ws account.
Mrs T, the daughter of Mrs W, acts as the personal representative for the estate.
Background
Mrs T asked  the Post Office for information  about  cash withdrawals from her late mothers  
account. She believes her sister had been  using the account without  her mums consent and 
she wanted to prove  this. The withdrawals  were made between January 2014 and March  
2015 when the late Mrs W was in hospital  or too ill to make them herself. 
The Post Office wouldnt investigate her complaint  because shed raised  her concerns too 
late. It said under the Payment Services Regulations  2009  (PSRs 2009) it wasnt  obliged  to 
investigate a claim if the disputed transaction took place more than 13 months  earlier.
As Mrs T didnt agree with the Post Offices decision, she asked this service to investigate. 
She said she only found out about  the cash  withdrawals  when she started going through  her 
mums papers in 2018. 
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold  it. She said the Post 
Offices decision was fair and reasonable because Mrs T raised  a complaint 13 months after 
the cash withdrawals  were made.
However, Mrs T feels strongly that her sister defrauded her mum and that the Post Office 
should investigate  this. Shes  asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons.
Originally, Mrs T said shed never  asked  the Post Office for refund. She said she just wanted 
answers and information  about the cash withdrawals. In particular, she asked for the location 
of the ATMs.  I see that the investigator has now provided this information to Mrs T. But as 
she clearly feels very strongly  this is fraud,  I can only assume she now wants a refund.
So, my primary  concern is to decide if its fair and reasonable for the Post Office to refuse a 
refund.
The relevant  regulations,  (the PSRs  2009) say that a payment service user is entitled  to 
redress if they notify the payment service  provider without undue delay and no later than 13 
months after the debit  date, on becoming  aware of an unauthorised transaction. 
Ref: DRN84192402For these purposes,  the late Mrs W is the payment service user and the Post Office  is the 
payment service provider.
Also, the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws Post Office account also say:
 Notification and rectification of unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment 
transactions
74.-(1) A payment service user is entitled  to redress under  regulation 76, 91, 92, 93
and 94 (liability for unauthorised transactions, non-execution or defective or late 
execution of transactions, or charges and interest), only if it notifies  the payment 
service provider without  undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after 
the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed  
payment transaction. 
In short,  when a consumer becomes aware of an unauthorised transaction they must notify 
the business without delay and no later than 13 months from the date the transaction  leaves 
the account. If they dont, then the business  is not obliged  to refund the unauthorised 
transaction.
In this case, the disputed cash withdrawals were made between January  2014 and March 
2015. Mrs W wouldnt have been  aware  of those  transactions because  she was seriously ill 
and in hospital most of that time.
However, her post had been redirected to Mrs Ts address while she was in hospital. Mrs T 
said she didnt check her mums bank  statements or open any correspondence from the 
Post Office  because she had no reason  to be suspicious. And she said when her mum died, 
she put everything into a box. She only started going through  the papers  in 2018. She raised 
her complaint with the Post Office in August 2018, which was more than 13 months  after the 
cash withdrawals were  made.
Im afraid the relevant  regulations provide a lawful basis for the Post Office to refuse  a refund 
of any unauthorised transaction where the complaint is raised after 13 months.  I may decide 
that its fair and reasonable to depart from the 13 months rule. But I can only do that where 
there is an exceptional reason for the delay.
Im afraid I dont consider there was an exceptional reason for the delay in this case. The 
unauthorised transactions wouldve been detected earlier had Mrs T checked  her mums 
bank statements, which were in her possession. I appreciate she said she had no suspicions 
but I dont think  shes  provided an exceptional reason for the delay.
For this reason, I think its fair and reasonable for the Post Office  to refuse a refund.
I am very sorry  to send such disappointing  news, especially at this distressing time. I 
understand Mrs T has also lost her dad while weve been looking into her complaint. I would 
like to offer my condolences to her and her family at this very sad time. I sincerely  hope  she 
can resolve matters with her sister.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN84192403Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8419240