K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a portfolio of buy-to-let  (BTL) mortgages that Mrs E holds with 
Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Birmingham Midshires  (BM).  Mrs E believes BM has applied 
unfair charges for arrears  management, late payment interest,  legal costs,  and ground  rent 
charges. She says BM hasnt provided  all of the statements for the various accounts. To 
resolve matters, Mrs E says BM should  return to her more than £78,000 that she paid it to 
restore control of the accounts; a sum which she now believes was wrongly calculated.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
around 1,500 pages of documents, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are 
less relevant to the underlying case than others.  There  are also a lot of duplicated 
documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows,  I have,  by necessity, summarised  
events in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using my own words. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.  
Through much of the events described, Mrs E was known as Miss G; for simplicitys sake, Ill 
refer to her throughout as Mrs E. Ill begin  with an overview.
Mrs E has mortgages on four BTL properties:  Ill refer to them here as 9A, 5A, 7T and 99S. 
The accounts have  been in arrears  from time to time, and BM applied  arrears fees. At one 
stage BM also, as is commonplace with BTL mortgages that are in arrears, appointed Law of 
Property Act (LPA) Receivers to manage  the properties and the mortgages on them,  and the 
LPA Receivers added  their own costs to the mortgage accounts.  
In October  2016, Mrs E was told that management  of the properties could be returned  to her 
if she paid the arrears and all of the additional  sums that had been added  to the accounts. 
Across the four mortgages, that added up to just over £78,250,  and Mrs E paid that in 
November 2016.  Since  then, she says shes kept the accounts up to date.
In January 2018, BM wrote to say it was refunding some of the arrears management fees on 
the mortgages since 2009. Curious  to know more, Mrs E requested  duplicate  mortgage 
statements. After receiving some  but not all of the back statements, Mrs E began the 
complaint that shed  been overcharged and treated unfairly. Her complaint was grouped into 
the following  broad  areas:
penalty interest of more than £13,300  over the four accounts;
solicitors  costs  of nearly £81,000; 
ground rent payments  of over £3,200; and 
overcharged arrears  fees adding up to more than £3,200.
BM issued a final response in August 2018,  dealing with part of the complaint. It didnt 
address the £81,000 attributed to solicitors costs, but agreed refunds of ground  rent 
Ref: DRN87195902payments (with interest) and further  refunds of arrears charges (again with interest)  applied  
earlier than 2009  (the first round of refunds had only gone back  to 2009). It also offered 
Mrs E £150  compensation. 
Mrs E referred her complaint to us. The main thrust of her complaint was that so many  of the 
charges shed identified were  excessive and/or unjustly  applied that it called completely into 
question the large  payments she made to regain control of the mortgages  in 2016. Mrs E 
wanted that money returned, along with a refund of the remaining parts of her claim that BM 
hasnt already met, and £1,000 compensation for her time, trouble and upset.
We looked into it further and our adjudicator  was able to establish that the disputed additions  
labelled as solicitors costs  which formed the main bulk of Mrs Es claim  were actually 
the charges levied by the LPA Receivers  whilst the BTL properties and mortgages had been 
in their control. The adjudicator explained  that we couldnt deal with those as the Receivers 
werent BMs agent. Meanwhile, he looked into the other fees and charges, and concluded  
that the refunds already  made  were  sufficient.
Mrs E doesnt agree  and wants her complaint reviewed by an ombudsman. She did at one 
point ask for a personal hearing  but withdrew  the request after the adjudicator  explained how 
we conduct hearings  on the rare occasions we decide one is necessary.
my findings
Ill begin with some general comments about the Financial  Ombudsman Service.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - 
albeit not in the case of BTL mortgages; Ill return  to that point shortly. We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate 
the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. Its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a complaint, 
where we should  get it from, and what weight we should attach to it once we have  it. 
Its also our judgement to make on when we have everything we need  to reach a fair 
conclusion. Im satisfied I have everything I need  in the evidence from both parties to decide 
the complaint,  without  hearing directly from either party.
Mrs E has been in touch  with us about things  BM has done since the complaint started. For 
example, its told her shes in modest  amounts of new arrears  on some  of the accounts. 
More recently, its made credits to some of the mortgages to remedy  underfunding; thats 
where a consumer pays too little off their mortgage  balance because a lender understates  
how much  they should pay each month. Its a completely  different issue  from those matters 
raised by this complaint. To be clear, these new events dont part of my review  but could  
form part of a new complaint if Mrs E wanted to make one.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN87195903A useful  starting  point  here is that these were BTL mortgages rather  than residential  ones.  
Theyre not regulated  mortgages, but ones  where  all parties  (not just the bank) are deemed 
to be acting commercially. Thats not to say BTL lenders dont  have to treat their borrowers  
fairly; but it does mean the test of fairness  is less stringent, bearing in mind the borrowers 
own home isnt at risk, at least  not directly.  It also means that FCA rules and guidance dont 
apply to them formally.  That said, some lenders will use FCA rules and guidance as an 
informal yardstick  when  looking at remediation exercises on non-regulated accounts; the 
main difference is that they arent  required to.
The next observation Id make is that Mrs Es compensation claim might have a 
double-counting  dimension to it. On the one hand  shes seeking recovery  of all of the extra 
charges applied by BM that shes said were unfair and/or penalties. On the other hand shes  
also expecting a refund  of the lump sum she paid to BM so that it would de-instruct the LPA 
Receivers and return  control of the BTLs to her. 
But as BMs letter to her dated 10 October  2016 confirms, the lump sum she paid was to 
clear the extra charges,  along with the mortgage  arrears. In other words, by asking for the 
charges to be removed  from the account and the lump sum returned to her (at least  without 
the accounts being re-debited with the corresponding amounts at the same time) Mrs E is to 
all intents and purposes claiming the same amounts twice.
penalty interest
Mrs E has said that charging late payment interest is unlawful and a penalty  because its 
interest on interest. I dont  agree. Interest is charged on the outstanding balance  of an 
account from time to time; the account balance falls when a payment is made. If a payment 
is made late, that extends the period  for which interest is charged on a higher rather  than a 
lower balance. Also, if arrears develop, then the arrears (some of which  will be made  up of 
interest) will form part of the balance attracting future interest. Its neither unfair nor a 
penalty. Its just how lending works.
Mrs E has also said, in a letter to the bank in August 2018, that, to be enforceable, late 
payment interest  must be a genuine  and commercially-justifiable pre-estimate of the loss 
suffered due to the mortgage  payment not being  made on time. The test Mrs Es referring to 
 the pre-estimate of loss - is one that is used  when considering the fairness or otherwise of 
early repayment charges  on mortgages.  Ive not seen it used in the context shes  referred to 
here. In any event, the question of enforceability is one for a court to decide. 
The LPA receivers costs
We cant consider the actions of the LPA Receivers; and that includes the costs  they incur  
and charge back to the mortgage accounts. Mrs E might think  otherwise, but Im afraid were 
bound by our rules.  They allow us to consider  complaints  about  the activities  of financial 
businesses that are covered by our scheme and, where appropriate,  other businesses acting 
as agent for the financial businesses we cover. That doesnt  include firms  of LPA Receivers.
BM might  have made the appointment,  but once  appointed the LPA Receivers acted  as 
agents for Mrs E not for BM. The starting  position  here is that under the mortgage 
agreements with Mrs E, BM has the power  to appoint Receivers, and to debit the costs the 
Receivers incur to the accounts. How and in what circumstances  it exercises that power  is a 
matter for BMs commercial judgement, and generally speaking we wont  interfere with how 
a business has exercised  its discretion.  
Ref: DRN87195904Wed only do so in circumstances where we thought  that judgement had resulted in the 
business treating  its customer unfairly.  Ive looked long and hard at Mrs Es case, and Ive 
seen nothing that would make me think that test had been met here. BM had been made 
aware of bankruptcy proceedings against Mrs E. I dont know  if that was a contributory  factor  
in its decision to appoint  Receivers, or whether the decision was reached  for broader 
reasons to do with how the mortgages were  performing generally.  Either  way, theres no 
reason for me to second guess BMs commercial judgement in the appointment of the 
Receivers.
Describing the LPA Receivers charges as solicitors costs when debiting them to the 
accounts wasnt helpful, but thats  not a reason to say BM should  refund them.  Ive no doubt 
Mrs E is very unhappy with the way the Receivers  have  dealt  with her BTL properties, and 
the costs theyve raised in doing  so, but whatever they did (or didnt do) was in their capacity 
as agents for Mrs E. If Mrs E wants to recover  the LPA Receivers costs (and they do form 
the main bulk of her claim)  shell need to take her own action directly against  the Receivers. 
Mrs E may want to get her own specialist legal advice on that.
freeholders charges  ground rent etc.
The starting point  here is that the terms and conditions  of Mrs Es mortgages allow BM to 
pay outstanding  amounts  demanded  by a freeholder. But this doesnt necessarily mean it 
would automatically  be fair for it to do so; it will always depend  on the circumstances.  I would 
normally expect BM to have paid amounts asked for by a freeholders  solicitors where 
forfeiture of a lease was a serious possibility. 
But that shouldnt  happen when there is just the threat of forfeiture; the likelihood of forfeiture 
needs to be more substantive. The issue has to have been to court  or a relevant tribunal 
where its been found there has been  a breach of the lease. Id expect  BM to know  that, 
whether or not Mrs E did. The relevant tribunal presently is the First-tier Tribunal (Property  
Chamber  Residential Property). Theres nothing in the available evidence to show  a 
breach of a lease  has found by either a court or a tribunal in any of Mrs Es mortgages.
 
Indeed, in her response to the adjudicators  view of her complaint, Mrs E has told us that 
three out of the four BTLs  9A, 5A and 7T  are freehold and therefore attract no ground 
rent or other charges. BM has provided us with evidence of demands from a freeholder  for 
charges relating to 7T. Its also showed  us evidence of a solicitors demand  for outstanding 
service charges from time to time on 9A, which it initially rebutted  by pointing out the 
propertys freehold  status. Eventually, BM did make  payments to cover ground rents and/or 
service charges for all three during 2013 and 2014. 
In all three cases, BM has shown us the letters it sent to Mrs E at the time, telling her it had 
made the payments and added the amounts to the respective mortgage accounts. I cant be 
sure if Mrs E received  those letters (they were addressed to a property with a postcode 
beginning CW9), but if she did, that invites  the question of why Mrs E (or her bankruptcy  
trustee if appropriate) wouldnt  have  questioned  at the time why BM was making these 
payments if she believed they werent  due. But it does certainly  introduce  plenty of 
uncertainty into the validity of the demands, and BMs decisions to pay them.  But BM has 
refunded those payments  with interest  so theres  no award for me to make  here.
The exception is a charge of £911.99  from August 2015 in respect of 99S, which has not 
been refunded.  Our adjudicator concluded  on balance that it was a fair charge but invited 
Ref: DRN87195905Mrs E to provide evidence  to prove otherwise.  BM meanwhile, wasnt able to clarify whether 
this was ground rent or a service charge (its recorded on the account statement as ground 
rent). 
But that doesnt mean it has to refund the £911.99  to Mrs Es mortgage account on 99S in 
the way it has done  on the other  three accounts. It could  be that rather than paying  
something it shouldnt,  BM paid the charge  sooner that it should have. If BM hadnt  paid the 
money, its possible the matter would have gone to a court  or tribunal. So its possible it 
would have been found that Mrs E had to pay the sum  including  any additional court  or 
tribunal costs. 
If Mrs E wants the payment of £911.99 refunded  to her mortgage account, she needs to 
show BM the money wasnt due. To do this, Mrs E could take the matter to a tribunal or 
other relevant authority.  Itll be for her to choose  the most appropriate forum;  its not our 
place to advise  her.
If it is then found that some, or all of the money  already paid to the freeholder wasnt  due, 
but the freeholder isnt ordered to return it, then BM would need to refund the required 
amounts back to Mrs Es mortgage account  as at the date the money was paid. It would also 
need to refund any mortgage interest on any amounts that have been found to have been 
incorrectly paid. 
Its possible that the process to prove  the charges on 99S shouldnt  have been paid could 
cost Mrs E more than it would have  done  for her to defend any action brought  by the 
freeholder at the time. If this is the case,  I dont think it would be fair for her to pay any 
additional amount.  So if Mrs E provided  BM with proof she ended up paying additional costs 
to prove  her case,  it would need  to refund these to her, minus those costs that would have 
been incurred  if the original court or tribunal action had continued.
arrears management  fees
Mrs E says the FCA had issued guidance  to the effect that charges for arrears  
correspondence should reasonably reflect  the costs of work done  and not exceed  £10. Im 
not persuaded thats the case. Its important to keep in mind  that BTL mortgages arent 
subject to any form of regulation, and so dont come  under the auspices of the FCA in any 
way. 
Its always possible Mrs E is thinking  of guidance that the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT)  issued 
in 2006 on charges applied to credit cards; albeit my recollection is that the figure the OFT 
regarded as appropriate was £12 rather than £10. In any event, if thats what  Mrs E had in 
mind, its not relevant  here. 
The starting point  here is that lenders are allowed by the terms of the mortgage  contract to 
apply charges to cover  the additional costs that arise from managing  accounts that are in 
arrears. But they still have to treat their customers  fairly, and in the case of regulated 
mortgages, lenders  have  been required by the regulator to look back at how they have 
handled customers accounts in the past.  Where  theyve  applied charges that, whilst 
allowed, were in circumstances  that the regulator  would deem unfair, refunds have been 
made.
As I mentioned earlier, Mrs Es mortgages  arent regulated, because theyre BTLs. 
Nonetheless, a number of lenders that conduct  regulated and unregulated business have 
Ref: DRN87195906taken a commercial decision to look at the arrears fees on their unregulated book, applying 
the same  approach. Thats  what BM has done  in Mrs Es case.  
Im not sure the initial  refund  letters  made it easy for Mrs E to understand how the figures  for 
the post 2009 refunds  had been arrived at, but Ive seen the breakdown  letters BM provided 
in February 2018,  and I think  they provide sufficient clarity. The adjudicator has provided  
more information  about the refunds applied before 2009 (after  BM consented to us looking at 
them  something  it didnt need  to do). 
Ive not reproduced that detail here; I dont have to. But Ive looked  at all of the charges that 
were applied during  the period our rules allow us to address; Im satisfied, keeping  in mind 
what we generally  consider  fair and unfair, BM doesnt have to refund  any further amounts to 
Mrs E.
other matters
When a lender conducts an exercise  of reviewing  fees charged  to an account, it is normal 
practice for any refunds to be credited to the account to which they were  originally debited,  
along with a corresponding interest  adjustment. We dont expect lenders to pay refunds to 
consumers directly, and I see no basis to order BM to do so here.
Mrs E says that the only way to resolve  this dispute is for BM to prepare a forensic 
accountancy report with supporting evidence  to justify its charges. Im not sure how that 
would help; by definition, it would be BMs work, and if Mrs E disagreed  with any part of its 
content, I dont imagine for one moment that shed  agree to its overall  findings.  
Thats not to say an independent audit from a suitably-qualified third party  might  not help,  but 
it would  be up to Mrs E to commission, and pay for it. The resulting report  could, if it revealed 
errors to Mrs Es detriment, form the basis of a new complaint to BM, and Mrs E could then 
reasonably expect BM to reimburse her the cost of the audit as well as remedying any 
errors. But its not something  wed do or require a business itself to do.
BMs paid Mrs E £150 compensation for shortcomings in dealing with her complaint fully. It 
neednt do more.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from her submissions the determination  with which  Mrs E has 
brought the complaint. She sees error or wrong-doing in almost everything  the bank has 
done (or not done). Thats  a natural, subjective  reaction,  and entirely understandable. 
But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or anomalies in what both 
sides have said and done from time to time.  Be that as it may,  I have  to take a different 
approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively, sometimes  taking a step back 
and focussing  on the broader  picture.  Thats what Ive done. 
Mrs E doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor BM 
will be bound by my final decision.  Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions  a court 
might impose, Mrs Es right to take legal  action against BM over the subject matter  of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of the complaint.
Ref: DRN87195907my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8719590