K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Western Circle Ltd, trading  as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Cashfloat provided to Mr C between  August 
2015 and May 2016. Mr Cs borrowing  history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
repayment*
1 28/08/2015 15/10/2015 2 £200.00 £126
2 15/10/2015 15/12/2015 2 £250.00 £169
3 30/12/2015 15/02/2016 2 £250.00 £156
4 23/03/2016 13/05/2016 3 £250.00 £119
5 17/05/2016 Outstanding 2 £200.00 £135
  *these  figures have  been rounded up/down
Mr C has said Cashfloat didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks.  If it had it 
would have realised  Mr C was reliant  on short-term loans and couldnt repay them in a 
suitable manner.  Cashfloat has said it had a robust  system and procedures  in place for 
assessing creditworthiness  and the ability for customers  to repay. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan 2 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Cashfloat  disagreed  so the complaint  has been passed  to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN86529552the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C hasnt disagreed  with our adjudicators opinion on loan 1 so I wont be looking at this 
any further as there is no ongoing disagreement  about them.  But I will bear it in mind when 
Im looking  at Mr Cs other lending. 
Cashfloat asked  for Mr Cs monthly  income,  which he said was between  £1,150  and £1,300 
in the loan applications. It asked for his monthly expenditure, which  he said was between 
£450 and £650 in the loan applications. Cashfloat  also says it carried  out credit checks  
before each loan and didnt think there  was any evidence of financial difficulties.  I have 
looked through the information  provided in a credit file provided  by Mr C and I think  the 
checks should have  raised concerns and prompted  further checks.
When loan 2 was taken out, the credit file showed  that Mr C had opened three new accounts 
in the last six months and had three outstanding  short-term loans with other providers in 
addition to other credit commitments.  When looking at all of this, I think Cashfloat should 
have questioned what it had been  told by Mr C.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 2 would most likely  have
shown that Mr C was having trouble in managing his money. And it was clear that Mr C 
wasnt using these high-cost loans to deal with a short-term cashflow problem.  So, in these 
circumstances, Cashfloat ought to have  realised it was unlikely Mr C wouldve been  able to 
sustainably repay  loan 2  and any subsequent  loans.
So, I think it was wrong for Cashfloat  to provide loans 2 to 4 and I think  it should  put
things right.
Ref: DRN86529553Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats  lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because by loan 5, Mr Cs overall  pattern of borrowing suggested that he had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans.  Mr C had borrowed on four occasions  in 
seven months and whilst the amounts fluctuated, they didnt significantly decrease over this 
period. And as said above, it was clear  from the credit file provided that Mr C had taken  
several other  short-term  loans with other  providers at the same time. 
So Cashfloat  ought to have realised  it was more likely than not Mr C was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying  his previous  loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr 
Cs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
In my view, the pattern  of lending itself shows that loan 5 was unsustainable.  So, I dont think  
that Cashfloat should have given Mr C loan 5. Mr C wasnt making any real inroads to the 
amount he owed Cashfloat.  Loan 5 was taken out nine months after Mr C first borrowed from 
Cashfloat. Mr C had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Cashfloat 
over an extended period.  The number of loans and the length of time over which Mr C 
borrowed was likely  to have had negative implications on Mr Cs ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 5, as well as loans 2 to 4, and Cashfloat 
should put things right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 2 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about 2 to 4 from Mr Cs credit file;
loan 5 being taken means any information recorded about it is adverse.  So all entries 
about loan 5 should be removed from Mr Cs credit file.
If Mr C still owes  Cashfloat any of the principal balance he borrowed on his final loan
Cashfloat should remove all the interest  and charges applied to the outstanding balance.
Cashfloat should then re-work the account  as if all payments made by Mr C went to towards
the principal. But importantly, Cashfloat  needs  to make sure that Mr C doesnt repay more
than the principal amount borrowed.
If after doing this Mr C hasnt repaid  the principal she borrowed Cashfloat can deduct this
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr C has already paid enough to repay the
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple interest from the
date of payment  to the date of settlement.
And if Cashfloat no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any
Ref: DRN86529554deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Western  Circle Ltd 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8652955