K820x#14Complaint
Mr G says Provident Personal Credit Limited  (Provident) provided him with a number of 
unaffordable loans.
Background
This complaint is about home collected  credit loans  Provident provided to Mr G. Our 
adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint as she didnt think Provident had treated Mr G 
unfairly. Mr G disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Provident says that it only provided Mr G with two loans after 1 April 2007.  One for £750 in 
June 2007 and one for £1000 in September 2007.  Mr G says Provident provided him with 
more loans than this. Ive seen the letter provided  from the agent. But it isnt in dispute that 
Mr Gs wife also had loans from Provident.  And its my understanding that a complaint about 
these loans was also made. 
So I dont  think the agents letter saying that Mr G and his wife together were provided with 
more loans in itself shows that Provident  issued more than two loans in Mr Gs sole name 
after 1 April 2007.  In these circumstances, Im satisfied that Im only able to consider  the 
loans provided  to Mr G in June 2007  and September 2007 as these  are the only ones Ive 
been provided with evidence  of. Ive therefore  considered whether Provident acted fairly and 
reasonably towards  Mr G in respect of these  loans.  
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it act unfairly  to Mr G. In practice  this 
means that it had to have a reasonable understanding of whether Mr G could afford to pay 
back what he was being lent plus any interest  due. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. But the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater 
the risk of the borrower experiencing  financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender  to be able to 
show that it hasnt  continued to provide these  loans to a customer unfairly. 
Provident says it agreed to Mr Gs applications  after he confirmed that hed be able to make 
his payments. And in these circumstances it wasnt unfair to lend to him. I dont know  exactly  
what Mr G told Provident about his financial position was and I accept that its entirely  
possible that his position was worse  than hed let on. Im also sorry to hear that Mr G was 
struggling financially  and that repaying these loans has been  difficult.  I also accept Mr Gs 
actual financial position might well have been apparent  if further information  such  as credit 
checks or bank statements  had been obtained. But I cant see that Provident did carry out 
any credit  searches. 
Equally Provident  could  only make  its decision based on the information it had available at 
the time.  Provident  being in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr G, the 
Ref: DRN82505092regulatory regime in place at the time of these loans and the period of borrowing, all lead me 
to think that it hadnt reached the stage  where  it would have been fair to expect Provident to 
take further steps to verify Mr Gs actual financial position. 
I think that it might also help for me to explain that Im only able to uphold a complaint where 
I can safely say that a lender has done  something  wrong. And, in this case,  I think that 
Provident didnt  act unreasonably  even though its look like the information obtained didnt 
accurately reflect Mr Gs actual financial position.  
Provident relied on what it was told and given  all the circumstances,  I dont think that this 
unreasonable. As this is the case,  Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate  this will 
be very disappointing for Mr G. But I hope  that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8250509