K820x#14complaint
Mr W claims that Union  Income Benefit Holdings Limited (UIBH) wrongly sold him a term 
assurance policy to run for just nine years, meaning  he was not entitled  to the refund of 
premiums benefit which  only applied plans lasting at least  10 years.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not believe Mr Ws complaint should be upheld as the 
evidence indicated that UIBH  had not offer advice about taking out policy  but merely 
processed Mr Ws application.
He said that Mr W was 61 when  he started the policy and it could only run till his 70th 
birthday; so he could  not have held it for the 10 years needed to benefit  from the proportional 
rebate clause in the terms and conditions.
Mr W said that UIBH knew from the start that his policy wouldnt run for 10 years so why did 
it send out information about something  he couldnt benefit from?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
The main  purpose of this plan was to provide life insurance protection  until policyholders 
reached 70, and was available  to any union member  between  the age of 18 and 65. There  
was also the added  bonus of a potential refund on some or all of the premiums depending 
on the persons  age at the start of the policy. They would  also need to hold the policy for at 
least 10 years to benefit from this clause.  This is all clearly outlined in the terms and 
conditions.
UIBH was right to send  Mr W a copy  of these overall terms and conditions  even  though he 
could not benefit from the premium rebate clause; and it is clear from this clause (Section 
B.5) that he would not be eligible for any rebate due to his policy only lasting a maximum  of 
nine years.
Ive seen no evidence  that UIBH recommended/advised Mr W to take out this policy but 
even if it did I can see no reason why it would have  been an unsuitable recommendation. It 
offered life insurance cover till his 70th birthday and clearly spelt out he would not be entitled 
to receive any refund  at the end of the cover period. So I think  he was given sufficient 
information in order to be able to take an informed decision as to whether this policy  was for 
him.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Ref: DRN84767312Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8476731