K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent money  to him he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr J entered into four loans with Lending Stream  between January and October 2016.
Loan Date Amount Instalments Repaid
1 23/01/2016 £70.00 6 01/07/2016
2 28/02/2016 £210.00 6 22/04/2016
3 08/07/2016 £300.00 6 30/08/2016
4 30/10/2016 £200.00 6 outstanding
Mr J says that at the time of the loans he was struggling to pay his priority  bills. He says he 
had a low credit score due to a default on his account which meant  he couldnt access  other  
credit and had to use short term loans. He says the loans were not affordable.
Lending Stream says that before the loans were provided it carried out proportionate 
affordability checks. It says it asked  for confirmation  on Mr Js income  and gathered 
information about his expenses. The expenses information was then compared to national 
database information. It says based  on the information it received the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that based on the information provided 
he didnt think Lending Stream  was required to carry out further checks.  He didnt think the 
number of loans,  loan amounts and Mr Js loan history alone meant that Lending  Stream  
should have known he was experiencing underlying financial  difficulties.
Mr J didnt accept out adjudicators view. He said he had lots of loans outstanding at the time 
and couldnt afford the repayments. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr J could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr J could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
Ref: DRN82632372the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Mr Js first loan was for £70 repayable over six months. Before this loan was provided 
information was gathered  about his income  and expenses and based on this the loan 
appeared affordable. While I note Mr Js comments, given the size of the loan repayment 
compared to Mr Js income I think the checks were proportionate and as these didnt raise  
concerns I dont think Lending  Stream did anything  wrong by providing this loan.
The second  loan was for a larger amount and was taken out before the first loan was repaid. 
However, given the required  repayments  and the other information provided I dont find I 
have enough to say that this loan shouldnt have  been given.
Mr J repaid his first two loans before taking out the third and although this was for a larger  
amount I still dont find that I can say that Mr Js pattern  of borrowing at this stage should  
have meant  further  checks were  required.  Based on the checks  undertaken the loan 
appeared affordable.
Mr Js fourth  loan was taken out after the third had been repaid early. And while I can see 
this was the fourth loan in around  ten months I still find, at this stage,  I dont have enough to 
say that further  checks were required or that Lending Stream  should have realised the loan 
wasnt sustainably affordable.
I know this will be a disappointment  to Mr J but given the amount of loans Mr J took out and 
that he repaid  all but the final loan I dont  think  I have  enough  to say that further checks  
should have taken place. Because, based  on the checks that were undertaken the loans 
appeared affordable I do not uphold  this complaint.
The fourth loan wasnt repaid on time and I can see that Lending Stream set up a payment 
plan for Mr J which I find reasonable.  If the loan is still outstanding I would expect Lending 
Stream to continue to treat Mr J positively and sympathetically and establish an affordable  
repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8263237