K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that after he agreed  a payment plan with it NewDay  Ltd, trading as Aqua,
still closed his credit card account, issued a default  and sent him letters  asking it to get in 
touch.
background 
In December 2017 Mr T fell into arrears  with the payments  on his Aqua credit  card.  In 
Mid-April he spoke with an agent  for Aqua and agreed a repayment  plan to clear the arrears.
On 23 February 2018, before the date agreed for the first payment  under the repayment
plan, Aqua wrote to Mr T saying his credit  card agreement had been  terminated. Aqua also
said that his account had been passed  to a debt collection agency and the full balance  was
due.
Mr T complained to Aqua. It said that he was unhappy as hed been told that the payment
plan would prevent the account being closed and passed to a third party. In its response
Aqua confirmed the account was closed.  It said the account hadnt been passed  to a debt
collection agency but it reserved the right to do this when the contract was in breach, as Mr
Ts was. It apologised that its agent hadnt  explained that he needed to make a payment
before the account was ninety days in arrears to prevent this. It credited the account with
£10 for the inconvenience  caused  to him.
Mr T brought  his complaint to us. Aqua had told our investigator that Mr T should  have
ignored the letters sent after the payment plan had been agreed. But our investigator 
thought that Aqua shouldve explained  this to him. Aqua had confused  Mr T.
She didnt  think it was appropriate  that Mr Ts credit was withdrawn one day before the first
payment under the payment plan was due. And he wasnt informed this would happen during
the 16 February call, even  though  the Aqua agent referred to the 90-day timeframe. But she
didnt think it was wrong of Aqua to withdraw the payment arrangement  in June when hed
paid off the arrears  as payment arrangements are only meant for arrears. But it shouldve
made this clear to him.
She thought  Aqua should pay him £200  compensation for the trouble and upset caused  by
the letters and by the withdrawal of the credit agreement just days after the payment
arrangement had been made. She also said no default should be reported to the credit
reference agencies  between 16 February  and 22 June  2018.
Mr T agreed  with our investigators view. But Aqua didnt. it  said  that it was coincidental that 
his credit facility was withdrawn shortly  after the payment plan was agreed  but that his card 
had already been suspended when he hadnt made  the monthly  repayments some  months
earlier. 
It said it couldnt allow a borrower to continue to use a card when they were
experiencing long-term financial difficulties.  It had said it hadnt recorded  a default and it
didnt see how it had caused £200  of distress from its actions.
Our investigator didnt  agree. While she thought suspending his account whilst  in arrears
was reasonable,  withdrawing the credit  facility entirely wasnt  appropriate. This was because
it knew he wasnt in long-term  financial difficulties. If it had believed  he was in serious long
term difficulties it wouldnt have agreed a payment plan with him. It seemed to her that the
Ref: DRN89228372credit facility was withdrawn simply because the system hadnt  recognised the payment
arrangement before  the 90-day thresh-hold had been reached.  But regardless of whether  it
should or shouldnt have  been, the process  wasnt made clear to Mr T.
Aqua continued to say that it was right to withdraw the credit facility,  as Mr T was still on a
repayment plan to the present day, and no business  allows  a customer to make purchases
whilst on a repayment plan.
The case  then came to me for a decision.  I asked our investigator to obtain  further
information from Aqua, including information that supports its claim that Mr T is still on a
repayment plan,  but despite numerous  requests it has not provided all the information
sought, or readable copies of all information  provided.
On 7 June 2019 I issued  a provisional  decision.  My findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold the
complaint and tell Aqua  to pay Mr T £300. But Im not going to tell Aqua to remove a default
on Mr Ts credit file as Im satisfied  no default  has been recorded.
Aqua itself acknowledges that it couldve provided  better customer  service to Mr T. It paid
him £10 for this. But it doesnt accept that it caused  £200 worth of distress   the amount our
investigator recommended it pay. I disagree. And Ive increased the compensation amount
because in my view its handling of the complaint since it came  to our service  has caused
further delay and thus inconvenience to Mr T. Ill explain why.
Aqua focussed its response to our investigators  view on her comment  that it wasnt
appropriate for it to withdraw the credit  facility in the way it did. I can see why our investigator
said that in the context  of the payment plan and the 90-day thresh-hold. But as she said in
her exchanges with Aqua, if it was going to do this, it shouldve  been explained to Mr T, and
it wasnt. So in her view it was a further  customer service issue.  I agree.
Only a week after the payment plan had been  agreed Mr T was sent a letter  asking for full
repayment of the amount outstanding on the credit  card, and not just the arrears.  And he
was told it would be passed to a collection agency.  In my view this was likely to cause
considerable distress  and confusion for Mr T. Ive no doubt it did.
Since receiving our investigators view, Aqua have insisted that there is a repayment plan in
place on the account that continues up until now. It says this shows it was right to withdraw
Mr Ts credit entirely. The statements provided  to us are almost  completely unreadable so
Im not able to tell what is happening on the account.  but it looks  to me like interest is being
paid, contrary to what Aqua has said. I also note that Mr Ts credit file shows the status of
the account as being  OK each month  since June 2018, which is inconsistent with a payment
plan being in place.
I gave Aqua repeated opportunities to provide information to support its allegations,  and this
delayed the progress of the complaint. Because of this, combined  with the fact that I think its
poor customer service caused Mr T considerable inconvenience  and distress, I propose to
tell it to pay Mr T £300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience caused by its poor
service.
Our investigator also said that Aqua should  remove any default recorded on Mr Ts account
between mid February and June 2018.  Ive seen Mr Ts credit file account, and no default  is
Ref: DRN89228373recorded, so Im not going to ask it to do this. His credit file for the account shows that Aqua
has reported it has having the status AA for November and December 2017  and BB for the
months January  to April 2018. AA refers to an account being  in early arrears  of one to two
months, and BB means sustained arrears of three months or more.  I think this is an
accurate record, so I wont be asking Aqua to remove them.
My provisional decision was that NewDay  Ltd, trading as Aqua, must pay Mr T £300
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he has experienced because  of customer
service failings. To be clear, this is in addition to the £10 already paid.
Mr T accepted my provisional decision and Aqua noted it. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr T accepted my decision, and Aqua 
had no comments on it, I see no reason to change it. I think  still my provisional decision is 
the right one, for the reasons given above. 
my final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, must pay Mr T £300
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he has experienced because  of customer
service failings. To be clear, this is in addition to the £10 already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8922837