K821x#15Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Citibank Europe  plc (Citibank) didnt do more  to help him when he 
was a victim  of a scam.
Background
On 24 September  2018, Mr B made an international payment of just over 10,000  euros for 
holiday accommodation. Hed found  the accommodation when searching online.  However,  
when he saw the same accommodation available on a different website, he contacted the 
owner directly who told him they were unaware  of his booking.
Mr B has several accounts  with Citibank. The account from which this payment was made  is 
set up to make and receive payments in euros.  On 3rd October 2018, Mr B contacted  
Citibank to inform  it that hed been  the victim  of a scam. Mr B is unhappy that he wasnt  
warned that, in the event  of a scam, hed be unprotected when making a bank transfer. He 
also thinks Citibank couldve done  more to recover his payment from the bank account 
controlled by the fraudster
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who upheld it. The investigator, having 
considered statements on Mr Bs euro account, thought this payment was unusual  and out of 
character. Citibank therefore ought  to have queried it. If it had done so, the investigator 
concluded, Mr B wouldnt  have gone ahead  with the payment.  
Citibank disagreed with the investigators opinion. It didnt agree that the payment was out of 
character. In particular,  it pointed out that Mr B had made many  international payments 
before. It also thought  that, even if it had questioned  Mr B about the payment, it wouldnt 
have made  a difference because hed have been able to explain that it was for holiday 
accommodation. 
Because Citibank  disagreed with the investigators  opinion, the case  was passed  to me to 
come to a final decision. I emailed Citibank to explain that, based on the evidence  Id seen, I 
was inclined to agree  with the investigators conclusion  but was willing  to consider any 
additional evidence  it wanted to submit.
Citibank responded to my email and argued  that:
The investigator hadnt explained which set of rules or code of practice hed relied on 
when deciding to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
This payment cannot be considered out of character  when Mr Bs other accounts are 
considered alongside  this one. The payment  represented only a small proportion of 
his total holdings with Citibank.
It wasnt persuaded that, even if it had spoken to Mr B about  the payment, it wouldve 
made a difference to his decision  to authorise it because hed have been able to offer 
a seemingly legitimate  explanation  for the payment.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN80806002In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story.  Regulated  firms  like Citibank are also required to conduct 
their business  with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) February 
2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve fraud  or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes  October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm  as a result of fraud  or financial  abuse  
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of).
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so considering the environment  created by the increase  in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more  familiar with than the
average customer.
Should Citibank  have intervened in this case?
I need to decide whether Citibank acted fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr B when 
he made payments  to a scammer, or whether it should have done more than it did. Having 
considered the evidence  and arguments in this case, Im not persuaded Citibank did enough 
here.
Good industry practice required  Citibank  to be on the lookout  for unusual or out of character 
transactions. Im satisfied  that this payment  was one of them.  The statement information 
provided by Citibank shows that the scam payment  was one of only two transactions from 
that account in a period  of over six months. It also represented nearly half of the balance on 
the account. These factors ought  to have  alerted  Citibank to the possibility that Mr B had 
been targeted by a scammer  and that he was at enhanced risk of financial harm. 
Ref: DRN80806003I accept that Mr B has made international payments in the past. This payment was made 
from a euro account,  so thats unsurprising. I think its more  significant that this was a 
sizeable payment  and made to a new payee. It was also made from an account  on which 
there was very little activity.
Citibank has argued  that this payment  looks considerably less out of character if one 
considers Mr Bs activity  on his other  Citibank accounts. Its said that this payment 
represented a little over 7% of Mr Bs total funds at the time. I understand the point its 
making here,  but I think Citibanks systems needed  to operate  on the level of the individual  
account from which Mr B was making  the payment, rather than his customer  profile  as a 
whole. 
Its common for a customer to hold more  than one account with the same  business, but to 
only use one of those  accounts for day to day use. It would be a fragility  of a fraud  detection 
system to not pay careful attention to activity on one account  on the basis that theres 
abundant activity on another. In addition,  there  cant be an arbitrary  threshold based on the 
payment as a proportion  of the customers total holdings. Such an approach would risk 
offering less protection to a customer with a high balance. 
Overall, Im satisfied that, when considered  at the level of the individual account,  this 
payment was out of character and unusual  and ought fairly and reasonably to have alerted 
Citibank to the possibility that Mr B might be at risk of fraud. 
In view of that, I think Citibank ought  to have questioned the payment directly  with Mr B. It 
has argued that, even  if it had done  so, it wouldnt have made  a difference  because  Mr B 
wouldve been able to confirm the purpose of the payment. 
But theres a significant  asymmetry of knowledge between  the parties here. Citibank has a 
considerably greater knowledge  of the fraud landscape than the average customer  and 
should be familiar with the most commonly  occurring  types  of scam and the methods 
employed by scammers. For that reason, I think the onus was on Citibank  to do more  than 
merely confirm the purpose of the payment. It couldve mentioned  that there have been 
known instances  of fraudsters setting up fake websites designed to look entirely plausible. If 
Citibank had told him this and asked  what steps hed taken to ensure that wasnt  the case  
here, I think  its likely  Mr B wouldve carried out further enquiries before  agreeing  to make  
the payment and hed have been able to uncover that this was a scam.
As soon  as he did suspect hed been  the victim of a scam, he searched  online for the name  
of the business to whom hed made the payment and quickly  found that companys entry on 
Companies House.  This shows that the director of the company was not the same as the 
intended recipient of the payment. Hes also told us that he was able to find identical listings 
for the same property  online. These two things taken together wouldve given him a sound 
basis for believing that he was at risk of fraud. I think if Mr B had been put on notice of the 
possibility of a scam,  he wouldve been  able to quickly  find more information  on line to 
support those suspicions. Having done  so, I think  he wouldve opted against making the 
transfer.
In its response to my earlier email,  Citibank pointed to two decisions Id issued on other 
cases. The underlying facts on the two cases its referred to are distinguishable from Mr Bs 
case and each case thats referred to this service is considered on the basis  of its individual 
merits. 
Ref: DRN80806004Overall, and for the reasons  Ive explained  above,  Im satisfied that Citibank ought to have  
looked at this payment more closely and, if it had alerted Mr B to the possibility of a scam,  
its more likely than not that hed have  chosen to not make the payment. 
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Citibank Europe plc should  refund 
the payment to Mr Bs account.
It should also add 8% simple interest per annum on this payment from the date it left Mr Bs 
account until the date the settlement  is paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8080600