K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  on behalf of the late Mr B that Mr B was overcharged for his 
buildings and contents insurance policies  by Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited.
background
In 2009 Mr B bought two policies from Lloyds,  one for buildings  and the other for contents 
insurance. The policies  were set up to renew automatically. Before the policies were due to 
renew in January 2016 Miss B noticed  that Mr B was paying over £550 for his cover. She 
contacted Lloyds on his behalf  because she thought this was very expensive.  Lloyds  agreed  
to reduce the premium slightly in the last few weeks of the policies.  Miss B says she 
cancelled the policies because shed found  much cheaper cover  for Mr B elsewhere.
Miss B complained to Lloyds. Lloyds said Mr Bs premiums had been  calculated correctly. It 
said on average his premiums had increased annually  by 11% for buildings and 7% for 
contents cover. It pointed  out that Mr B had made one claim. It also said new policies include 
an introductory discount. It said it sends out documents about three weeks  before the 
renewal date so that customers  have  time to shop  around if they wish to do so.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Sadly in the meantime  he has passed away. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt the fact that Mr B was able to obtain a 
discount from Lloyds  and also cover at a cheaper price from another  insurer  doesnt make  
the price offered by Lloyds unfair. She also thought the increase in premiums was in line with 
what shed expect to see.
Miss B felt the premiums had been  too high from the start and that the fact that the policy 
had automatically  renewed  made it difficult for Mr B to cancel it.
As Miss B didnt agree,  the matter  has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss B might  think Lloyds was overcharging Mr B for the policies he 
took out from 2009 to 2016   it must  have been very disappointing  to find that that he could 
get similar cover for between a third and a quarter of the premiums  quoted  by Lloyds for his 
2016 renewal.  Just because a policy premium is higher  compared  with what may be 
available elsewhere  in the market  doesnt,  in my view, mean that something  has gone 
wrong. The insurance market is very competitive. And different insurers  may well take varied 
views on risk and the price that they need to charge to cover that. New policies also 
generally include new customer  discounts.
Its for Lloyds to decide how much it wants to charge Mr B for his home insurance, based in 
part on the risk it thinks  there  is of him needing to make a claim and its wider commercial  
requirements. Its not under any obligation  to offer loyalty  discounts or match prices offered 
by other  insurers.
Ref: DRN84783802Looking at what Mr B paid in premiums  to Lloyds, I can see that the policy did go up in price 
quite a lot  from a total of £336.42 in 2011 to £566.28 in 2015.  But Mr B had made a theft 
claim in 2013. When a consumer makes  a claim,  it typically affects the premium at the next 
renewal. Thats because the fact a claim has been made alters the insurers  view of the risk 
it is being asked  to take on. And the greater the risk, the more  the insurer will usually charge 
for it. Of course insurance is there  to provide cover for unforeseen events but when claims 
are made, insurers are entitled to take them into account when deciding  what  price  to charge 
for cover at the next renewal. Thats not something this service  would normally  interfere with.
Another factor which would have contributed to the increase is that when Mr B first took the 
Lloyds policies out, they had an introductory discount. They may well have been initially 
priced below  cost price.  Generally I dont think its unfair for an insurer to seek to move  the 
policy to a more profitable price over the first few years.  I think  thats what happened in this 
case. 
If I thought Lloyds had increased the price  just because Mr B hadnt  engaged at each 
renewal, its possible  I might have said that wasnt fair. But here I think there were reasons 
why the price increased, so I dont think Lloyds needs to pay any compensation.
Lloyds has confirmed that the policies  Mr B had were the only ones available via online and 
direct channels (such as telephony) for the period in question, and so no cheaper 
alternative would have been  available  to Mr B. It had another  policy which  would have been 
available to buy in a branch. But this offered a greater level of cover  and would typically  cost 
more than its online products for various  reasons, including the associated  costs of sale and 
increased level of cover  provided.
Ive looked at whether Mr B lost out by having  separate policies for buildings and contents  
insurance. It appears that Mr B bought the original  policy from Lloyds by phone. I think its 
reasonable to assume that he was happy to have  two separate policies. Lloyds has 
explained that in 2009 and until 2015 Mr Bs policy was underwritten by a panel of various 
underwriters. As different  underwriters have different views of each risk, by operating  a 
panel, customers can benefit from these different assessments. So it may well have been  in 
Mr Bs interests during that period to have  separate policies for his buildings  and contents 
insurance.
Lloyds sent the renewal  documents  to Mr B about three weeks in advance of the renewal 
date. It told him he didnt need to do anything for his policy to renew since  he paid by direct 
debit. Miss B thinks  this was unfair  as it put the onus on Mr B to cancel the policy  if he didnt 
want it to continue. But auto-renewal is common place and provides consumers with a 
degree of protection against  becoming  uninsured. And it was clearly  drawn  to his attention 
by Lloyds. So I dont  think this was unfair.
In summary  whilst I can understand Miss Bs concern at the difference in cost between what  
Mr B was quoted to renew his policies  by Lloyds in January 2016 and the alternative policy 
he took out with another insurer,  I think in this case Lloyds has been able to explain 
satisfactorily why that is. This isnt a case where  I think  that Mr B lost out because Lloyds 
didnt tell him about an alternative policy it could have offered him at an earlier  stage. His 
claims history  would also have been relevant to the pricing of that policy. Overall Im not 
persuaded that Lloyds treated him unfairly in the pricing of his policies.
Finally Id like to apologise for the fact that this service has taken longer than usual to 
conclude this complaint.  Weve been  looking carefully into pricing practices in the insurance  
Ref: DRN84783803industry and Mr Bs complaint was one of a number that weve been thinking very carefully 
about.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8478380