K821x#15complaint
Miss B has complained  about  how her claim under  her home  insurance  policy  was handled 
by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited following  a burglary.
background
Miss B had a home insurance policy covering  buildings and contents with Lloyds and she
called them to make  a claim after her home was burgled.
Miss B got through to Lloyds out of hours service and, was told that she would  have to pay
for somebody to come out and secure  her property because she didnt  have home
emergency cover. As she didnt want to incur  more costs, Miss B asked her neighbour to
secure her home. When she spoke  to Lloyds the next working day, Lloyds agreed to pay for
some of the costs to secure her property, but they didnt agree  to pay for her patio doors  until
their assessor had seen  them. And as far as I can see, Lloyds eventually  arranged for
Miss Bs window to be repaired, but didnt  pay anything  for the doors,  as they didnt think
these were damaged  in the burglary.
Miss B complained to Lloyds about the service  she received from their out of hours service.
They apologised and paid her £50 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Miss B also claimed for some  stolen possessions, including  her childrens laptops, electronic
games, her laptop, jewellery, cash and other items.
Lloyds offered to replace her stolen jewellery  through their authorised jewellers,  but Lloyds
eventually paid her £10,000 based  on the policy limit for high risk items. This included
£6,273.11 for her jewellery and £3,726.89 for computer, video and audio  equipment,  making
the total of £10,000. Lloyds had already paid the £3,726.89 and Miss B has said they then
paid the £6,273.11 without her agreement.
Lloyds also paid for the other stolen items in accordance with the terms of the policy. But
Miss B was unhappy  Lloyds had included her laptop as part of the high-risk  items. She said
her policy included business cover and I think she was referring to the clerical office
equipment cover the policy  provides.  And Miss B has said she used  her laptop for work, so
this should have been settled separately. She was also unhappy about  the ongoing delay
and errors.
In their final response letter Lloyds acknowledged the delay and errors and paid Miss B a
further £160 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience shed experienced as a result
of this. They said the amount allowed for the high risk items was correct, but they agreed
that the laptop was covered, and said theyd arrange for somebody to contact  her to arrange
a replacement.
Miss B wasnt happy with Lloyds response  and brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator said that he thought  Lloyds  had acted fairly  and in line with the terms of the
policy. And she felt Lloyds had already compensated Miss B adequately for the poor service
shed received from the out of hours service and in respect of her claim for stolen
possessions.
Miss B didnt agree, she said if she didnt have home emergency cover  she couldnt
Ref: DRN86400302understand why Lloyds  had agreed  to pay for the glass in her window to be replaced and her
locks to be changed. She also said her policy included contents cover  up to £75,000, so she
couldnt understand why Lloyds had limited its payment for her stolen possessions.  And
Miss B asked for an ombudsmans decision.
We established Miss B still hasnt  been contacted by Lloyds to settle her claim for the laptop.
She told our investigator that she used some  of the settlement  money to buy her childrens
laptops, as their education  was a priority, so she only has limited access to a laptop.  She
said this has impacted her ability to work,  which has then affected her earnings.
So, our investigator contacted Lloyds for their comments  on why Miss Bs laptop hadnt been
replaced. Lloyds  have now said they told Miss B in March 2019 that they werent  going  to
pay for this as it fell within the limit of £10,000 for high risk items.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 June 2020  in which I set out the following  provisional  
findings and provisional decision
my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss B suffered the burglary,  I can tell from the calls that Ive listened to that
this must have been a distressing time for her.
My starting point is to look at the terms of Miss Bs policy and I can see that the policy  says
the maximum cover for high risk items is £10,000.
High risk items are defined  in the policy booklet as follows:
Computers, televisions,  video and audio equipment,  photographic equipment,
jewellery, articles of precious metal, precious stones, watches, clocks, furs,
pictures, works of art, telescopes, microscopes, musical instruments and sets or
collectables/ collections including, but not limited  to, stamp,  medal  and coin
collections.
Ive also listened  to a call between Miss B and Lloyds, and they explained the limit for her
high value items in her policy  is £10,000. Ive checked the policy and- as Ive already
mentioned - I can see that there  is a limit of £10,000 for high risk items. So, I think  Lloyds
were entitled  to apply  this limit and Im satisfied that the items they included do fall within this
definition, including  Miss Bs laptop.
I know Miss B was upset  that Lloyds didnt wait for her agreement  to the settlement, when
they paid the money into her account. But insurance companies are required  to settle claims
promptly, and as far as Lloyds were concerned, nothing  else was outstanding.  So I dont
think they did anything  wrong when making  the payment to her account, particularly as
receiving the money in her account  didnt  prevent Miss B from making her complaint.
Although, I do appreciate  they could have  done  a better job of explaining this to her.
Miss B said her policy  offered contents  cover of up to £75,000, so she couldnt understand
why Lloyds only paid £10,000 when the value of her jewellery was much more. I should
explain that insurance companies usually offer cover for general contents  in the home  and
Ref: DRN86400303then apply a set limit for high risk items.  If cover  for high risk items is increased, then the
premium would usually  increase  too. I think the high-risk item limit is clear enough from the
policy documents Miss B was sent. And I think it is clear that it applies to all high-risk items
irrespective of whether  they are clerical office  equipment. And if Miss B wasnt  happy  with
this limit, she had the opportunity to query it and see whether it could be increased. This
means, I think  its fair and reasonable  for Lloyds to rely on the limit when settling Miss Bs
claim.
Ive noted that Lloyds  recently said that they arent going to pay any more  for Miss Bs laptop
and theyve said they informed her of this in March  2019. But their final response  letter  said
that theyd reviewed her policy and the laptop should  have been  covered. I appreciate  that
even though it is clerical  office equipment, it still counts as a high-risk item.  But I think Lloyds
should do what they said in their final response letter and settle the claim for the laptop in
line with the claim settlement terms of the policy, irrespective of the £10,000 limit for high risk
items. I understand  saying they would  do this was probably a mistake by Lloyds, which
theyve said they corrected soon after, but I think having made an offer Miss B was clearly
happy to accept in an official final response  letter, they should honour it.
Miss B has said that being without a laptop  has been inconvenient and had an impact on her
income. So, Ive considered whether  she should be paid some  compensation for this, but Im
satisfied that a laptop falls within the high-risk items definition. And as Lloyds have paid out
the maximum they can for high risk items under the policy, strictly speaking,  Miss B isnt
entitled to any more for her laptop.  Ive told Lloyds to replace  the laptop  in this case purely
because theyve said they would in their final response letter,  so I think this more than
compensates Miss B for the inconvenience she says shes suffered.
Turning to Miss Bs complaint about  the service  she received from the out of hours service,
she was upset that she was told she didnt have  home emergency repair service cover. She
said that she did have  this cover. And, if, as our investigator said,  she didnt have  the cover,
then she asked, why did Lloyds pay to secure  her property?
Im satisfied that Miss B didnt have  home  emergency repair service cover. I say this
because Ive looked at the policy and I cant see that there is anything to say that she has
this cover,  so there was no obligation  on Lloyds to arrange for somebody to come  out and
carry out emergency repairs. I think Lloyds replaced Miss Bs locks  because her keys were
stolen, and the policy provides for replacement  locks in these circumstances.
For the reasons  set out above, Ive provisionally decided Lloyds General Insurance Limited
should either replace Miss Bs laptop  or pay the replacement cost in line with the claims
settlement terms of the policy,  irrespective of the high-risk items limit in the policy.
If either  party has anything further to add, they should ensure it reaches me by 19 July 2020.
Miss B hasnt responded  to my provisional  decision,  but Lloyds did respond.  They said that 
they had made an error, and, no call had been  made to Miss B in March  2019 to tell her that 
her laptop  wouldnt  be covered.  They  apologised  for giving our investigator incorrect  
information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN86400304Ive considered Lloyds response, but I havent  seen  any new information  which  has 
persuaded me to change my view. So I see no reason to reach a different conclusion  from 
the one set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that Lloyds General 
Insurance Limited should either replace Miss Bs laptop or pay the replacement cost in line 
with the claims settlement  terms of the policy,  irrespective of the high-risk  items limit in the 
policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2020.
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8640030