K820x#14complaint
Mr V feels  that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGIL for short)  has treated him 
unfairly in replacing  his mobile phone under his mobile phone insurance  policy.
background
Mr V claimed on his phone insurance in April 2018 but deferred getting a replacement  phone 
at that time. In December 2018 he paid his £75 excess fee and a replacement phone  was 
ordered.
Later in December 2018 Mr V called AGIL to say he had received his replacement phone  
and it had battery issues. AGIL apologised and offered  to exchange for another phone. Mr V 
acknowledged this and said hed call back if he wanted to proceed. On 24 December he 
called to say the phone was still not working  well enough. After discussion of various options 
including a replacement  of the replacement  phone or a cash settlement, it was agreed that 
Mr V would get the manufacturer  to replace the battery in the phone he had and AGIL would 
reimburse that cost.  Mr V sent AGIL the receipt  for the battery replacement and it paid him 
that cost in January 2019.
In May 2019  Mr V complained. AGIL  looked into matters and paid him £30 for the 
inconvenience hed suffered. Mr V thinks this isnt enough. So he brought  his complaint here.
The Investigator thought AGIL had treated him fairly and reasonably and consequently didnt 
uphold Mr Vs complaint.  As Mr V remains unhappy  his complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Having considered the entirety of the matter Ive decided that this complaint should  be 
upheld. I say this for the following reasons which I see as key to this complaint.
Ive considered what AGIL did in terms of replacing  the first phone and then how it acted with 
regard to the problems arising  with the replacement phone. Ive considered the terms and 
conditions and I can see these say AGIL will either repair or replace the phone. It did this for 
the first phone and then after discussions and agreement  paid for the replacement  battery 
for the replacement phone. So I think it has acted both in line with its obligations  in the terms 
and conditions but also fairly  and reasonably.
AGIL has apologised for the customer service it provided. It has also acknowledged the 
inconvenience that occurred. It paid him £30 to recognise that. So its clear to me that the 
facts of what actually  happened  are largely  agreed. Mr V hasnt argued that there  were  any 
substantial consequences  other  than the £30 paid already regarding the customer  service to 
him. I can see that Mr V suggested  £100 better reflects what  happened here and pointed  to 
the time spent going to the manufacturer. But he had the choice of a replacement phone  
(including replacement  battery) being  delivered to him. And it was he who chose  to go to the 
manufacturer for the battery.  So I dont  think the time spent going to the manufacturer  was 
AGILs fault as it was happy  to deliver  to Mr V. And I dont see any significant inconvenience  
around the replacement phone.
Ref: DRN87992152Mr V argues  about  additional costs hes incurred.  AGIL have said it wont pay them  and this 
isnt unreasonable in my view as the costs  and time spent were due to going to get the new 
battery which was outside of AGILs  usual  policy but had been agreed on the call with Mr V. 
He has also referred to having to pay an excess when  he claimed. But that is part of the 
policy terms and is a standard requirement.  I see no unfairness  here.
Mr V has also argued that AGIL should  replace items with items of sufficient quality. 
However the terms dont  require replacements to be new, they just require them to be of the 
same make and model. Mr V says the battery wasnt good  enough.  But it is clear it worked 
and anyway AGIL was still happy to replace it. Mr V also seems to suggest  that because  the 
battery didnt work as well as he wanted  he was forced to go to the manufacturer. I dont 
think thats reasonable. Just because one battery  wasnt good enough (in Mr Vs view) 
doesnt mean AGIL couldnt supply  one (or indeed many) that did work. And ultimately AGIL 
supported Mr V in his choice to go to the manufacturer.  So I think AGIL has acted  
reasonably here.
So all in all I think the position  AGIL  has taken  is fair and reasonable in these particular 
circumstances (including the £30 paid). So I wont be asking it to do any more.  I appreciate  
this isnt the decision that Mr V wants to hear. But I think  that AGIL has made good for what  
happened here. Consequently I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8799215