K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays  Bank UK Plc delayed setting up an account in an overseas 
currency for her and Barclays converted an overseas currency  receipt into pounds  sterling 
(GBP). Due to conversion charges shes received less money  than she was expecting.
Mrs H is represented in her complaint by her husband, Mr H.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final decision.
Barclays responded to say it had nothing further  to add. I havent  received any further 
submissions from Mrs H or her representative, Mr H.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84762752Copy extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc delayed setting up an account  in an overseas currency 
for her and Barclays  converted an overseas  currency receipt into pounds  sterling (GBP). Due to 
conversion charges shes received less money than she was expecting. Mrs H is represented in her 
complaint by her husband,  Mr H.
background
Mr H explained that his wife asked Barclays to open a new overseas  currency account for her. 
Barclays accepts there was a delay in opening the account. Mrs H arranged a transfer of funds  into 
the overseas currency  account and said Barclays was told not to exchange  the money into GBP  
under any circumstances. She later discovered Barclays received the funds  in the overseas  
currency and converted them to GBP. This resulted in her receiving less than she was expecting.
In its final response letter Barclays accepted there had been a delay in opening the account and it 
agreed to pay £200 compensation.  But in terms of the transfer of funds it said it had received an 
instruction to pay the funds into Mr and Mrs Hs GBP account. And at the time the transfer was sent, 
the new overseas currency account hadnt yet been opened.
Mr H thinks  the £200 offered by Barclays doesnt sufficiently compensate his wife for the amount 
she lost due to the overseas  currency being  converted into GBP. He says his wife didnt give 
Barclays an instruction to transfer the funds to their joint GBP  account. They  only gave details of the 
sort code. So they think Barclays must have provided  the sending bank  with the rest of the 
information.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  The investigator noted that 
Barclays agreed that there had been a delay  in opening the new account  and agreed to pay £200 
compensation for this. The investigator  hadnt seen  any evidence to suggest Barclays had provided  
Mr and Mrs Hs account details to the sending bank. And the investigator couldnt say Barclays was 
at fault because at the time the money was sent it hadnt provided any confirmation  that the overseas 
currency account had been set up.
The investigator was unable to say whether or not Mrs H had given an instruction not to exchange 
the money into GBP. But he didnt think this would have been necessary  if it was intended that the 
funds would transferred in the overseas currency as originally planned.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view.  He says hed previously provided  information to our 
service to show he and his wife hadnt provided  account details to the sending bank. He thinks  that 
at the very least Barclays admitted their error and shouldnt be able to profit from it. He also says that 
under regulations requiring  Barclays to know your customer, it should have rejected  this large  sum 
of money  if it didnt know the source of the funds.
The investigator reviewed  the file again. Although Mr and Mrs H said they hadnt provided details  
of their joint GBP  account  to the sending  bank the investigator hadnt seen any evidence  that 
Barclays had provided these details  to the sending bank  either.
The investigator couldnt  say Barclays had made an error so the investigator didnt agree  that 
Barclays had profited from the situation. The investigator explained that the exchange  rate used 
and any charges associated with the transfer were  detailed in the terms and conditions  of the 
account to which the money was sent.
The investigator also explained that Barclays had only agreed  itd delayed opening the account 
 but Barclays didnt agree  that itd made  an error with the funds.
Ref: DRN84762753The investigator explained that Barclays had approved the incoming transfer with a 
Relationship Manager in accordance  with Barclays  policies he didnt think  this was 
unreasonable.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators second  view. He believes Barclays  solicited the transfer into 
the GBP account and as the funds were  coming from a financial jurisdiction that required additional  
checks he thinks  the funds should have been rejected and sent back. He says they specifically 
instructed Barclays  i) to open an overseas currency account; and ii) not to convert the incoming funds 
from the overseas  currency into GBP. He says Barclays failed on both instructions and admitted this.
In response, the investigator explained theyd been unable to find any guidance regarding funds 
being submitted from that particular  jurisdiction.  The investigator explained that Barclays 
processes required the incoming payment  to be authorised by a relationship  manager and this was 
carried out. The investigator explained that this service couldnt tell Barclays to change their 
processes or how to operate and if he has concerns he might like to raise  these with the Financial  
Conduct Authority (FCA).
He explained that he hadnt seen anything to show an instruction wasnt given to transfer the 
funds. And neither had he seen anything to show Barclays  gave incorrect  account details to the 
sending bank.
On his wifes  behalf Mr H disagrees with the investigators  view and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive reached the same overall conclusion  as 
the investigator but for some  slightly  different reasons.
Ill deal first with Mr Hs concerns that  due to the country from which the funds  were being sent - 
Barclays shouldnt have accepted the incoming  transfer without doing further due diligence and this 
was in breach  of know  your customer regulatory requirements.
Im afraid Im unable  to consider this part of the complaint.  Thats because were set up to resolve 
complaints by customers about financial businesses  by looking at what  we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances taking into account the impact any mistake has had. However, we 
have no regulatory role over those financial businesses. Thats the role of the FCA.  So if Mrs H 
remains concerned about this she will need  to raise her concerns with the FCA.
Where the information provided is incomplete  or inconclusive (as some of it is here) I make my 
decision based on what I think is mostly likely to have happened in light of the available  information  
and the wider circumstances.
The information Ive seen shows that Mrs H asked Barclays to open an overseas currency 
account towards the middle of November 2017.  Barclays confirmed  the new account had 
been opened  in a welcome letter sent to Mrs H and dated 8 December 2017. Barclays  hasnt 
been able to explain the reason for the delay, but it accepts there was a delay and it paid 
£200 compensation.
Mr H says they didnt give the sending  bank instructions to send the funds to their joint GBP 
account - and he believes Barclays must have provided the sending bank with these details.
In support of this he referred  us to email correspondence theyd sent to an overseas  
administrator. Ive reviewed  this but I dont consider its relevant because  this correspondence 
appears to relate to the provision of bank details  in connection with the transfer of a different 
Ref: DRN84762754amount unrelated to this complaint. Also, the email correspondence is dated  January  2018  in 
other words later than date of the transfer into the joint account to which this complaint relates.
Based on the information Ive seen Im unable  to say who provided  Mr and Mrs Hs GBP  
account details to the sending bank. I appreciate Mr and Mrs H say they didnt provide  these 
but equally I havent  seen any evidence that Barclays provided these details to the sending 
bank either.
I cant say Barclays was at fault for the funds being sent to Mr and Mrs Hs joint GBP account  rather 
than Mrs Hs overseas currency account. I say this because the money was received into the joint 
account on 24 November  2017 and at this time Mrs Hs overseas currency account had yet to be 
opened. Barclays  only confirmed that Mrs Hs new account was opened  on 8 December 2017.
International transfers are completed  by the party sending  the money. It follows that if the 
receiving account number is wrong, I cant fairly say Barclays should spot this or be responsible  
for it.
I also cant say with any certainty whether Mrs H gave an instruction not to exchange  the money into 
GBP. But I dont see why it would have been necessary to give this instruction  if the funds were  
going to be transferred in the overseas currency  as originally  intended.
For the reasons  Ive explained above I cant say Barclays made an error. The exchange  rate and any 
associated charges were  applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account the money  was 
sent to.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not intend to uphold  this complaint.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8476275