K821x#15complaint
Mr B has said that Commercial Land and Property Brokers (CL&P), an unregulated 
introducer, advised him to switch his existing  personal pension to an Options SIPP UK LLP 
SIPP and then make  an investment  in an unsuitable high risk, speculative investment  
Store First. 
Mr Bs representative believes that Options SIPP  UK LLP did not act appropriately in 
accepting this business or treat him fairly when doing so. It said it did not carry out adequate 
due diligence  when  accepting Mr Bs business  and carrying out the investment in Store First.
background
Mr B says that CL&P called him in 2011 and told him to move his personal pension to a 
SIPP and then invest in Store  First.  Mr B switched his personal  pension to an Options SIPP  
UK LLP (Carey Pensions UK LLP) SIPP in January 2012. About £32,000 was transferred of 
which about £28,000 was then invested, in March 2012, into Store  First. 
Mr Bs representative made  a complaint  in 2016  to Options SIPP  UK LLP on the above  basis  
and made  reference  to FSA/FCA Principles  which it said Carey had breached.  
Carey Pensions  UK LLP
Carey is a SIPP provider  and administrator, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Carey is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring  about) deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal,  establish, operate  or wind up a pension 
scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions  in investments. It has recently 
changed its name to Options SIPP  UK LLP, but Ill refer to it as Carey throughout this 
decision, as that was its name at the time of the events in question. 
CL&P
CL&P was an unregulated business based in Spain. Mr B says he was called  by CL&P and 
persuaded to transfer his pension to a Carey SIPP and invest in storage pods. One of the 
directors of CL&P was a Mr Terence  Wright.  On 15 October 2010,  the following was 
published on the Financial Services Authority (FSA),  website:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA)  has today published this statement in order  to warn  
investors against dealing with unauthorised firms. 
The purpose of this statement is to advise members  of the public that an individual 
Terence  (Terry)  Wright
is not authorised  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on a 
regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things,  advising  on 
investments. The FSA believes that the individual  may be targeting UK customers via the 
firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service  and the Financial
Ref: DRN88762792Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised
company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of
authorised firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
the relationship  between CL&P and Carey 
Carey was approached  by CL&P in 2011  and entered into discussions about  accepting 
introductions from it. Carey says it carried out some due diligence on CL&P  at this time. It 
says it reviewed CL&P's profile,  conducted  searches,  reviewed CL&Ps  website and 
literature and had conversations  with CL&Ps representatives over the telephone. 
Carey began to accept introductions from CL&P on 15 August 2011.
A non-regulated introducer profile  was completed by CL&P  on 29 September 2011.  It was 
signed by a Terence Wright, and confirmed the following:
CL&P was a Spanish firm, and was trading from a Spanish address.
It used an 0845  telephone number.
It had been  trading  for two years.
It had two directors  Terence Wright and Lesley Wright.
It had eight agents and promoted four investments  Store First, Verdant  Australian 
Farmland, and two other  unregulated investments.
It worked with four other  SIPP operators. 
Its source of business was, referrals  and web enquiries. 
Its sales process involved  a call and follow up emails.
It took 2-5% commission, and this was the source of its earnings. 
Its staff had been given training and it had worked with various  compliance officers. 
Carey had a conference call with representatives  of CL&P  on 9 December 2011. During that 
call the issue of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P  to transfer to a SIPP and 
make investments was raised, and also concerns about final salary scheme transfers. The 
note of the call included the following: 
Concern was raised at a recent AMPS [Association of Member-Directed Pension Schemes] 
conference regarding Final Salary Transfers to SIPPs, the need for clients to take advice, 
the fact that ordinarily you would not expect more than 5% of FSTVs to be execution  only 
and these would only be relevant for suitably qualified individuals such as IFAs, Brokers, 
Investment Professionals. [Carey staff member] explained the matters raised at the 
conference. Discussed with CLP because some 30% of the business received into Careys 
from them is in relation to FS transfers which previously have been  processed with member  
declarations. All agreed that in future  cases of FS Transfers would be referred  to suitably 
qualified IFAs for relevant  advice and copy of that advice would be provided  to Careys for file 
records. 
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member  had asked when they 
would receive their money from their Store  First Investment,  [CL&P representatives] 
confirmed that no clients or connected  parties  referred by CL&P  receive any form of 
inducement for either establishing  the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include  offering  inducements.
Ref: DRN88762793[Carey staff member] emphasised that it is completely  against  all rules that clients  or 
connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular  investments .
An agreement between Carey and CL&P was signed in March  2012. This was backdated to 
August 2011.  Carey  says this was done to cover  all the investments that had been  
introduced to it by CL&P.  
Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P on 25 May 2012. It says the basis  for this was 
Carey again becoming  aware that CL&P was offering consumers cash  incentives for 
transferring to a Carey  SIPP  and making  investments.  It says this came to light when 
consumers contacted it to ask when the money  would be paid.
Store First
The storage  pod  Store First - investment into which Mr B invested took the form of one or 
more self storage  units, which were part of a larger storage facility  in a UK location. Investors 
bought one or more units in the facility, and were offered  a guaranteed level of income for a 
set period of time. After  that, they could  either  take whatever income the unit(s) provided, or 
sell them (assuming there was a market for them). 
Store First was the subject of a winding up petition issued by the Business Secretary in 
2017. Action relating to that is ongoing, and investors have  recently been offered the 
opportunity to transfer their investment to a newly-created  freehold company,  for nil 
consideration. I understand the investment has no realisable value. 
Mr Bs dealings with CL&P  and Carey
Mr B signed  a Carey  SIPP application on 25 October 2011. At the same time Carey  received 
a letter  from Mr B confirming that it should  liaise with CL&P  regarding his pension 
arrangements. Mr B signed  a Carey Storefirst  Member Declaration which instructed Carey 
to invest into storage units, on 23 January  2012.  This document set out:
I, [Mr B] being  the member of the above  Scheme  instruct Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd to 
Purchase a Leasehold Storage Unit(s) in the Store First investment through  Harley-Scott 
Holdings Ltd for a consideration  of £27,500,  on my behalf for the above Scheme.
I am fully aware that this investment is an Alternative Investment and as such is High Risk 
and / or Speculative.  
I confirm that I have read and understand the documentation regarding this investment and 
have taken my own advice, including financial,  investment and tax advice. 
I am fully aware that both Carey Pensions  UK LLP and Carey  Pension Trustees  UK Ltd act 
on an Execution Only Basis and confirm that neither Carey  Pensions UK LLP nor Carey 
Pension Trustees UK Ltd have provided any advice whatsoever in respect of this 
investment.
I confirm that my business /occupation is not renting  out storage  units.  
Should any aspect of this investment be deemed by HMRC to provide Taxable Moveable 
Property and / or any tax charges be deemed  by HMRC to apply in future these will be paid 
directly from the fund or by me as the member  of the Scheme.
Ref: DRN88762794I also understand and agree that, in the event  of my demise, if Carey Pension  Trustees  UK 
Ltd is unable to sell the asset within HMRC timescales that it may be transferred to my 
beneficiaries through my estate  and accordingly may be subject  to any Inheritance Tax.
I instruct Carey Pensions to appoint the following solicitor to act on behalf  of the Scheme:
[details of solicitor]
I confirm that I agree  to [name of solicitor] fee of £400 + VAT for transacting  this investment.
I confirm I am fully aware  that additional costs will be incurred in this transaction  including, 
but not limited  to: 
£48 CHAPs Fee;
£8 Land Registry Search Fee;
Stamp Duty Land Tax - To be advised  by Solicitor at completion;
Any other taxes - To be advised by Solicitor at completion;
I agree  to Carey Pensions Fee of £500 + VAT, amounting for transacting  this investment.
I agree  that any and all fees and costs will be paid by my Scheme, or in the event of default, 
by me personally.
I agree  to provide Carey  Pension Trustees UK Ltd with any further  information  and/or 
documentation they may require prior to completing the purchase of this investment.
I indemnify both Carey  Pensions UK LLP and Carey  Pension Trustees Ltd against  any and 
all liability  arising from this investment.
In this decision I will refer to this document as the indemnity. 
Carey set up Mr Bs SIPP and then in January  2012 Carey administered  the transfer  of his 
personal pension  to the Carey SIPP. As discussed, Carey then invested  about £28,000 into 
storage units.  This took place in March 2012.
Careys position  
Carey considered Mr Bs complaint but did not uphold it. 
In its submissions to us Carey said, in summary:   
It does not (and is not permitted to) provide any advice  to clients  in relation to the 
establishment of a SIPP, transfers  in or the underlying investments, nor does it 
comment in any way on the suitability of a SIPP, the transfers in and investments for 
an individuals circumstances. It did not advise, nor purport  to advise,  Mr B, and Mr B 
confirmed his understanding that Carey could  not advise him and confirmed his 
understanding that the investment was high risk and speculative.
It cannot provide  any advice and acted on an execution only (i.e. non-advised)  basis.   
Sections of the application form Mr B completed and its SIPP  terms and conditions  
highlighted that Carey had no involvement  in his decision to transfer, the choice of 
investment or the suitability of such. 
Ref: DRN88762795It acted on Mr Bs instructions to establish the SIPP, request the transfers in, and 
specifically to make the investments  on his behalf into Store First in the amounts 
instructed by him. It made him aware he should seek  independent  financial advice. 
It is not responsible  for the performance  of Mr Bs investment or his loss. 
Mr B had been offered a cash incentive from CL&P but he did not declare this to 
Carey. If he had, it would not have  accepted  the business. 
It carried out an internal investment review and due diligence  on Store First and 
concluded that these investments were suitable to be held within  a UK pension 
scheme. There was no reason not to accept  this investment in the SIPP.
It undertook due diligence on CL&P and this due diligence did not reveal  any reason 
for which Carey should not accept introductions from CL&P  at the time of Mr Bs 
investment. There was no reason not to receive  customers from unregulated 
introducers. It was not aware at the time of the FSA notice  about  Mr Wright  and so 
there was no reason  not to accept  the introduction from CL&P.
Mr Bs complaint was looked at by an investigator.  It was his view that the complaint should 
be upheld. In summary he said:  
Carey undertook some due diligence on CL&P. However, this was not properly 
carried out at the outset. And if this had been  done, he felt Carey should have 
concluded that it shouldnt accept business from CL&P.
Carey did not carry out proper  background checks  on the directors  of CL&P.  If it had 
it would  have established that the FSA had concerns about one of the directors  
(Terrence Wright).
Despite requests, CL&P didnt provide copies of either its accounts  or identity 
documents for its directors. This should  have given  Carey  cause for concern.
Carey should have been concerned that the non-regulated introducer agreement  had 
not been signed by the CL&P directors. 
Mr B had been given  an incentive payment but given his knowledge and 
background he did not believe he would  have understood there was anything  wrong  
with this payment.  
Mr B signed a Member Declaration which contained warnings about the investment 
to be made and sought to confirm that he would not hold Carey  liable  for any liability. 
But Carey shouldnt  have accepted  the business in the first place and so he should  
never have got to the point of having to sign the declaration. 
By the time of Mr Bs investment Carey  was aware that CL&P  may have been 
offering incentive  payments to clients. Yet it proceeded with the transfer of Mr Bs 
pension and the investment regardless.  
Ref: DRN88762796If Carey had acted as it should  have done it would not have accepted the transfer  of 
Mr Bs pension  or made the investment.  
He also set out how Mr B should be compensated.  
Carey did not agree  with the investigator.   I have considered its submissions in full but, in 
summary, it said:
It was unable to respond fully until the investigator provided more  detailed 
explanations of his conclusions.
The investigator has not made a fair and reasonable decision.
It notes the FSA warning in 2010  but does not believe it is solely  responsible for 
Mr Bs loss. 
Carey acted for Mr B on a strict execution only, non-advised basis.  Carey  does not 
provide advice as to the suitability of investments or any other aspect of a customers  
SIPP. It states all customers should seek advice from a suitably qualified adviser.
The relevant  considerations  quoted  by the investigator include announcements  made 
by the FSA/FCA after Carey received Mr Bs SIPP application and investment 
instructions. It does not agree that the FCAs expectations did not change  over time. 
It is its opinion that they have changed  over time. The complaint should not be 
considered with the benefit of hindsight or in the context of guidance or warnings 
published after the event. In any event  the FCA/FSA  publications  are guidance only 
and do not set out steps that Carey has to take.  There is no specific  regulation or 
legal basis to find Carey  liable.  
Mr B received an inducement payment. The impact of this has not been taken fully 
into account. Neither has Mr Bs motivation, conduct in accepting  the payment or 
financial position at the time. If Mr B had told it about the payment then it would not 
have proceeded  with the investment. His actions have contributed  to his losses.
The investigator is wrong to say that Carey knew that CL&P might have been  offering 
incentive payments  at the time it carried out the pension switch. Raising concerns is 
not the same as knowledge. When it received the pension  funds and made the 
investment it did not have knowledge that CL&P  was making  incentive  payments. It 
raised concerns  with CL&P  in December 2011 and CL&P informed it that it wasnt 
offering such incentives. It did not have any reason to question this at the time and so 
the investigators findings are not reasonable. 
Has the ombudsman service considered holding an oral hearing and if not, why?
By the time of SIPP application, Mr B had already decided he wished to invest in 
Store First. If Carey  had refused his application then Mr B would have made the 
same investment via a different SIPP  provider. 
It is not reasonable to suggest  that the individuals who signed the non-regulated 
introducer agreement  has any bearing on whether Carey  should have accepted 
introductions from CL&P. 
Ref: DRN88762797Carey carried  out due diligence on Store First and provided Mr B with a Member  
Declaration which reaffirmed his investment instructions and provided him with risk 
warnings about his chosen investment to enable him to make an informed decision 
as to whether  to proceed.  It was Mr Bs decision to proceed on an execution  only 
basis and it made  this clear to him. Mr B confirmed that he had read and understood 
all the documentation  he had been given and this should be taken into account.
There was no reason for Carey to have  refused  to accept business from CL&P. 
It considers the £500 proposed for the upset caused has not been justified and is 
excessive.
Carey later made  an additional  submission in which it asked for the investigator to provide 
additional explanation as to how he had arrived at his view. In particular it:
Reiterated its position as to the FSA notice about Mr Wright and the due diligence  it 
carried out on CL&P. The notice only said that Mr Wright was not authorised   a fact 
that all parties were well aware of.  There was nothing to suggest Mr Wright was 
carrying out regulated  activities.  The 2010 warning was materially  different than that 
of the updated notice  of 2013.  There was no reason not to accept introductions  from 
CL&P at the time.  
Asked why Mr B was not being  held wholly or partially responsible  for the loss he 
says he has suffered  taking  into account  the information provided  to him and the 
FSA guidance at the time. 
Asked that the investigator provide a comprehensive response to justify  his findings 
or an ombudsman provide a further  provisional  decision  so that Carey can respond. 
In general correspondence about the group of complaints  to which  Mr Bs complaint belongs  
Carey has also:
Asked that a response be given to each  of its points before a final decision is made. 
Suggested that we hold an oral hearing.
Asked us to put the complaints on hold, pending a judgment in the Adams v Carey  
court case. 
Asked us to consider COBS 11.2.19, which deals with execution  only business, and 
was in force at the relevant time. It says this required  it to carry out investment 
instructions for a client. COBS 11.2.19 sets out:
"Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute  the 
order following the specific instruction.
A firm satisfies its obligation under this section to take all reasonable steps  to obtain 
the best possible result for a client to the extent that it executes an order, or a 
specific aspect of an order, following specific instructions  from the client relating to 
the order or the specific aspect of the order."
Ref: DRN88762798my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
some preliminary points
delay deciding this case  until  judgment  in Adams v Carey has been handed down? 
I do not consider  it appropriate to wait for the outcome of Adams  v Carey. That is a different 
case to Mr Bs complaint  and Mr B is not party  to those proceedings. That being said,  I 
understand the case does involve an investment being made in Store First introduced by 
CL&P. But the case was heard in March  2018 and the judges decision has still not yet been  
handed down  two years  later. As far as I am aware,  there is no publicly available information 
about when the decision is likely to be published. And any judgment,  when eventually  
handed down,  could be subject to appeal.    
The ombudsman service  is required to resolve  the complaints it receives quickly  and with 
minimum formality  (see section 225(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  
(FSMA) and Westcott Financial Services Limited  v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2014] 
EWHC 3972 Admin).  I must therefore carefully  take this into consideration in deciding 
whether or not I should delay deciding this case until after the outcome in Adams v Carey  
becomes known. And, given the substantial  delay in the judgment being handed down, I 
dont think I should  delay deciding Mr Bs case.    
I am required to determine the complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances taking into account, but not being  bound by, various 
matters including  the law. I may depart from the law if I consider it fair and reasonable to do 
so, as long as I provide sufficient reasons for doing  so. 
Its also relevant here that there has been  judgment  by Jacobs J in relation to a judicial 
review in respect of a final determination  that specifically considered the due diligence  
obligations of SIPP operators: R (Berkeley  Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 2878). 
Berkeley Burke (BBSAL) had brought a claim for judicial review about a decision of an 
ombudsman which found that BBSAL as SIPP operator had not treated its client fairly or 
reasonably when it accepted an investment into his SIPP. The ombudsman had found that 
the FCA Principles  and good industry  practice at the time meant that the SIPP  operator 
ought to have carried out due diligence before accepting  an investment into the SIPP. 
The judgment of Jacobs J provides a strong endorsement for the approach  taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint. The judgment  also considers section 228 FSMA and the 
approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. I accept that Mr Bs 
complaint is different from the complaint in the BBSAL case, and that each complaint will be 
determined on its own individual merits. However,  the relevant considerations are similar. As 
a result,  in my view, its unnecessary to await the judgment in Adams  v Carey.
I have carefully considered the points made by Carey in support of its request for me not to 
progress this complaint.  In deciding that request Ive weighed  the interests of all the parties, 
and my statutory commitments. Having done  so, I consider it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
to put this case on hold while we await the outcome of the separate civil claim.
Ref: DRN88762799oral hearing?
Our rules allow for the possibility of an oral hearing  (at DISP  3.5.5R):
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a 
hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite  the parties to take part in a 
hearing.
Carey hasnt requested  a hearing in this complaint  as such,  but has queried if a hearing 
should be held.  Ive therefore  thought about this carefully and in the specific  circumstances 
of this complaint  Im satisfied I can fairly determine  the matter  without  a hearing. In 
particular, I note:
The Financial Ombudsman  Service was set up as an informal  dispute resolution 
forum and this complaint  falls squarely within the jurisdiction  of the ombudsman  
service.  While I accept  that the complaint is significant to both parties that is very 
often the case  and that point  alone cannot be the test for whether or not an oral 
hearing needs to be convened in order to fairly determine the case.  There  is nothing 
in the particular circumstances of this case that has persuaded  me that it cannot  be 
fairly determined without a hearing. 
Carey clearly believes the ombudsman service  has misunderstood the applicable law 
and regulation and it has set out its position  clearly  in writing.
Both parties have  been given ample opportunity  to make representations  and set out 
their positions. 
The Court  of Appeal has adopted a very flexible  approach to whats fair in this 
context (R on the application  of Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
After carefully taking account of all the available evidence, Im satisfied I can fairly  determine 
Mr Bs complaint without  convening a hearing. 
a provisional decision?  
I note that Carey has asked for us to respond  to specific  points before I make  a final 
decision. DISP  3.5.4R sets out the procedure I must  follow  when determining  a complaint: 
If the Ombudsman decides  that an investigation  is necessary,  he will then:
1.ensure both parties have been given  an opportunity of making representations;
2.send both parties a provisional assessment, setting out his reasons and a time limit 
within which either party  must  respond; and
3.if either party indicates disagreement  with the provisional assessment within  that time 
limit, proceed to determination.
I am satisfied that Mr B and Carey have  been given adequate opportunity to make 
representations. Mr B and Carey  have also received a provisional assessment, which set out 
Ref: DRN887627910the investigators reasons for reaching  their view (the provisional  assessment). Carey 
disagrees with that decision. 
I am required to give reasons for my decision,  not to give a point by point response to 
everything that has been said by the parties to the complaint. As recognised by the High 
Court in R (Williams) v FOS [2008]  EWHC  2142,  this service is dealing  with complaints, not 
causes of action.  Our jurisdiction is inquisitorial  not adversarial, and we are required to 
resolve complaints  quickly and with the minimum of formality in accordance with section 225 
of FSMA. It would not be consistent  with our powers or remit to do as Carey has asked and 
respond to each and every point it has made  before making a determination. 
So the next step is for me to proceed  to determination. And I am satisfied it is appropriate  for 
me to do that here.
Ive therefore  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
relevant considerations
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses  are of particular relevance to my decision on 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The Principles for 
Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms  under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Clients  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
clients and treat them fairly.
In R (British  Bankers Association)  v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) 
Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added.  The Principles always have  to be complied  with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them  and cannot  be used to contradict them. They  are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover.  The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust  the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment  specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach  a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what  
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had 
been produced  by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
Ref: DRN887627911duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which  find expression in 
the Principles,  whoever  formulated them. They are of the essence of what  is fair and 
reasonable, subject  to the argument about  their relationship  to specific  rules.
Subsequently Jacobs  J at paragraph  104 in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP  Administration  Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  [2018] EWHC  2878)  having set out some paragraphs of the 
British Banking Association judgment, including  paragraph  162 set out above,  said;
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument,  the role of the Principles is not merely to cater  for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment  in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were  
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based  regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely  not to attempt  to formulate a code covering all 
possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6. 
So, the Principles  have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, 2.1.1R in the Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS) is also relevant. It says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests  rule). 
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind  
SIPP operators of their obligations  and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic  review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance.
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter.
The September 2009 thematic review report pre-dates the events subject of this complaint 
and is therefore  particularly relevant. The report included  the following statement:
We are very clear  that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle  6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are obliged to ensure  the fair 
treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension  scheme  is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the 
responsibility of SIPP  operators to continuously  analyse the individual risks to themselves 
and their clients, with reference  to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves  of any responsibility,  and we would  expect them  to have procedures  and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member  to confirm the position,  or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
Ref: DRN887627912asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there  is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate  to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious  potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual  cases,  we 
may take enforcement action against  SIPP operators  who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles  for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control  its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made  to firms:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries  that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing  to the firms  clients,  and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships,  and clarifying  
respective responsibilities,  with intermediaries  introducing SIPP  business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments  recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs  can be identified.
Being  able to identify  anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric  investments  such as unquoted shares, together  with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek  
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies  of the suitability  reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible  for advice,  having  this 
information would enhance the firms  understanding of its clients, making  the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances  of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility  for their investment decisions, and gathering  and analysing  data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying  instances of clients waiving  their cancellation rights,  and the reasons for 
this.
In the October  2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally  published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory  requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory  responsibilities that became a requirement  in 
April 2007.
Ref: DRN887627913All firms,  regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat clients  fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client  for 
SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP  operators responsibility  
to assess its business  with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise  and introduce prospective members  and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP  operators  include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers  that advise clients  
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate  permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved  persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear  on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business  warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships  and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing  SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business  objectives  are, the types  of clients  they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being  able to identify  irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments  such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would  enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example  from 
the prospective member  or their adviser,  if it has any concerns. 
Identifying  instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members  advisers are responsible  for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility  for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being  supplied  with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being  used  to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which  govern  relationships  and 
clarify responsibilities  for relationships with other professional bodies  such  as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated  introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP  operators  
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October  2013 finalised SIPP  operator  guidance  said:
Ref: DRN887627914due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their business  
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain  
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate for personal  pension  schemes)  to help 
them justify  their business decisions. In doing  this SIPP  operators  should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing  the due diligence  the firm undertakes in respect  of the 
introducers that use their scheme  and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place  in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members  and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate  permissions,  qualifications  and 
skills to introduce different  types  of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records,  
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers  
ensuring all third-party  due diligence that the firm uses or relies  on has been 
independently produced  and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include  having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept  to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks  clearly  identify those instances  that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business,  or to undertake  further investigations  such  as 
instances of potential pension liberation,  investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments  and non-standard  investments  that have not been approved 
by the firm 
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations  about  the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes  envisaged  by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet  its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam,  or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally  enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued,  both at point of purchase 
and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired  (for example that previous investors have 
received income  if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy  etc).
Ref: DRN887627915Although Ive referred to selected  parts of the publications to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety. I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports  and the 
Dear CEO letter are not formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised  guidance  is). 
However, the fact that the reports and Dear  CEO letter  did not constitute formal guidance 
does not mean their importance should be underestimated. As mentioned, they provide a 
reminder that the Principles for Businesses  apply and are an indication  for the kinds of things 
a SIPP  operator  might do to ensure fair treatment of its customers  and produce the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out the 
regulators expectations of what SIPP operators  should be doing  also goes some way to 
indicate what I consider  amounts to good  industry  practice. 
I also note that Careys regulatory  obligations  under the Principles existed from the outset of 
Mr Bs relationship with it. So the reports, letter and guidance  which each gave the 
regulators view on the kinds of steps a SIPP operator might  take in practice  to achieve the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles  are each relevant considerations in this case. 
I recognise that the 2013 finalised guidance and the Dear CEO letter  was published after 
the events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed  
throughout, as did the obligation  to act in accordance with the Principles and with COBS  
2.1.1R (the client's  best interests  rule).
It is also clear  from the text of the 2009  and 2012  reports (and the Dear  CEO letter  in 2014)  
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended  good 
practices into the conduct of their business already.  So, whilst the regulators comments  
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the standards  shaped what  was 
expected of SIPP operators changed  over time, it is clear the standards themselves did not 
change.
That doesnt  mean that in considering what  is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Careys actions with these documents in mind.  The reports, letter  and guidance gave non-
exhaustive guidance.  They did not say the suggestions given were the limit of what  a SIPP  
operator should do. As the annex  to the Dear CEO letter  notes, what should be done  to 
meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.  
So, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Carey complied with its  
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise  its business affairs responsibly  and effectively,  to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the clients best interests. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles  and the publications listed above, as well as COBS 2.1.1R to provide an 
indication of what Carey  could have done  to comply with its regulatory obligations and 
duties. 
In this case, the business Carey was conducting was its operation of SIPPs.  I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding  
whether to accept  or reject particular  investments  and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided  some examples of good  practice  observed by the 
FSA and FCA during  their work with SIPP operators. 
the due diligence carried out by Carey on CL&P 
It is clear that Carey understood and accepted  that it had a responsibility to carry out due 
Ref: DRN887627916diligence on CL&P. On the non-regulated introducer  profile, Carey stated, As an FSA 
regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on 
unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce  client to us to gain some insight into the 
business they carry out.
The evidence Carey  has provided indicates  it took the following due diligence  on CL&P:  
On 19 September  2011 it obtained  a print out of the CL&P  website.  This contained 
the following  information:
we are working hard to become the leading supplier of commercial land and 
products across different areas with good long term growth.
expert advice tailored  to the individual  (my emphasis)
In accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, CLP 
brokers do not provide  any financial advice.
20 September 2011  it completed background checks on two representatives of 
CL&P.
27 September 2011  it asked CL&P to complete  a non-regulated introducer profile.
29 September 2011- the non-regulated introducer profile was completed  by CL&P. It 
was signed by Terence Wright, and named him and Lesley Wright as directors  of 
CL&P. 
9 December 2011  it spoke to representatives of CL&P and discussed the high 
portion of business it had introduced which related to the transfer of final salary 
schemes, and the payment of cash  back incentives. It was agreed that in future any 
defined benefit  transfers would be referred  to a suitably qualified  IFA for relevant 
advice and a copy of that advice  would be provided to Carey for its file record.
13 March 2012  it asked CL&P to sign a non-regulated introducer  agreement,  
backdated to the time it first started  to refer business  to Carey (15 August 2011). 
23 March 2012  it asked CL&P for a copy of its accounts and passports  of the 
directors. 
3 April 2012  it repeated  its request  to CL&P for a copy  of its accounts and 
passports of the directors. 
15 May 2012  it completed a background check on Terence Wright, which revealed 
he was the subject of an FSA alert.  
When taken together,  these efforts went  some  way towards meeting the examples of good  
practice set out by the regulator in the publications Ive set out above. I expect Careys 
action was taken  with these  and its overarching regulatory obligations  in mind. However, 
rather than conducting  sufficient due diligence proactively,  before  deciding to accept 
business from CL&P, in my view Carey  took a reactive  piecemeal  approach.  Acting fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations  Carey should have taken many of the steps it 
subsequently took prior to accepting any business  from CL&P.  If it had done so, I think  it 
Ref: DRN887627917ought to have led it to conclude that it would not be fair and reasonable to accept Mr Bs 
business from CL&P.  I have set out below in more detail  the steps I think  Carey  should have 
taken and what, acting fairly and reasonably, it should have concluded having taken those 
steps. 
what should  Carey have  done? 
 
the FSA warning 
I have noted Careys submissions about  the published FSA notice in 2010. At the time Carey 
was carrying out checks on CL&P the following warning was on the FSA website:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA)  has today published this statement in order  to warn  
investors against dealing with unauthorised firms. 
The purpose of this statement is to advise members  of the public that an individual 
Terence  (Terry)  Wright
is not authorised  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on a 
regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things,  advising  on 
investments. The FSA believes that the individual  may be targeting UK customers via the 
firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service  and the Financial
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised
company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of
authorised firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
At the very outset, I think Carey should have checked the regulators list of unauthorised 
firms and individuals. The list featured warnings (alerts) about unauthorised individuals and 
businesses. Checking the warnings posted  on the FSAs website is something that Carey 
should have done as matter of course as a part of sufficient due diligence, before it began  
accepting any business from CL&P. CL&P was an unregulated  business,  based in Spain, 
and was proposing to deal with the pensions of UK consumers, in an introductory capacity. 
As I explain later in this decision, I think if Carey had carried  out sufficient  due diligence,  or 
drawn reasonable conclusions from what it already knew, it ought to have known CL&P was 
going to be doing more  than merely  introducing consumers to Careys SIPP. But, in any 
event, Carey ought to have known the FSA kept a list of alerts, relating to unregulated 
businesses, which were  often based  overseas, dealing with UK consumers. As a SIPP  
operator considering accepting business  from an unregulated overseas firm it should have 
been mindful of this list and, acting fairly and reasonably, it ought to have checked it before 
proceeding. 
I note that the non-regulated introducer profile  had a question which asked Are you and/or 
the Firm subject to any on-going FSA or other regulatory body review, action or censure. 
Mr Wright  answered that question No.  However, it was not sufficient in my view to simply 
ask the introducer a general question.  Rather,  I think Carey, acting fairly and in Mr Bs best 
Ref: DRN887627918interests, should have  carried  out checks on Mr Wright. I think  a reasonable step for it to 
have taken was to check the FSAs list of warnings. Had it done so, it would  have discovered  
that Mr Wright was on the list and subject of the warning I have quoted.  
I also note the background checking  service  Carey used revealed Mr Wrights presence on 
the list when it ran a check on Mr Wright on 15 May 2012. When  Carey began  accepting 
business from CL&P it used this checking  service,  but used it to check  two representatives 
of CL&P, rather than to check  Mr Wright. Acting  fairly and reasonably Carey should have 
checked Mr Wright at the outset, not two representatives of CL&P. The available  evidence 
shows Carey knew  Mr Wright was a director of CL&P   it is therefore him they should have 
checked at the outset.  
So I think that Carey, acting fairly and reasonably, should have checked the FSAs list at the 
outset, and would have checked the FSAs list at the outset (via the checking service). 
I note that Carey ended  its relationship with CL&P shortly after completing the check on 
Mr Wright. It therefore seems likely this check was a factor in its decision to end the 
relationship. So had Carey focussed  its checks on the correct  target  at the outset  it may 
have led it to draw a different conclusion about the acceptance of business from CL&P  at the 
outset. 
Carey now says, in its representations that, the Notice amounts only to a notification that 
Mr Wright  is not authorised to carry on regulated activities, a fact of which Carey was well 
aware and upon  which  basis it accepted referrals from CL&P. 
I think Mr Wrights  appearance on the list ought to have highlighted to Carey  that the 
regulator was concerned  enough about  Mr Wrights activities to warn consumers about him. 
And I think in the circumstances it is fair and reasonable to conclude that the warning was 
aimed at protecting consumers from detriment in their dealings with him.
With this in mind, I think the warning  should  have acted as a significant reason for Carey  to 
be concerned about  any business Mr Wright was involved  in  not just Cash  In Your 
Pension. The warning  mentioned that Mr Wright  was involved in the area of pensions   
which is the same business area as CL&P was active  in. And the warning said that 
Mr Wright  was not authorised and may be targeting  UK customers in connection with 
investment business  conducted through an unregulated company, Cash  In Your  Pension.  
I also think the presence of Mr Wright on the list, after he had answered  no to a question 
asking him if he was subject to any FSA action or censure, should immediately have raised a 
red flag to Carey  it should have given rise to significant concern about Mr Wrights 
conduct. 
Carey suggests that the regulator  does  not detail any concern about  Mr Wright  in the 2010 
warning. Whilst it does not explicitly say that Mr Wright had been undertaking a regulated  
activity the inference  that he had is in my view clear.  If the regulator had no concerns it 
would not have issued an alert in order to warn investors against dealing with unauthorised 
firms followed  by advice telling members  of the public that Mr Wright was not authorised  to 
carry on a regulated activity including advising on investments. 
I am aware  that in other cases Carey has accepted that the wording in the 2013 warning, if it 
had been published at the time of it accepting business from CL&P,  would have been 
sufficient to stop it doing business with Mr Wright/CL&P. Carey  has said:
Ref: DRN887627919The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear  warning including  an express  
comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a warning that would  have put Carey 
Pensions on notice  to stop accepting business  from Mr Wright. (my emphasis)
In my view the October 2010 warning was also a clear indication  that the regulator  had 
serious concerns  about the way Mr Wright conducted his business and therefore  should 
equally have  put Carey on notice that it should  not accept business from Mr Wright.  
A warning headed ALERT in bold is clearly not a routine, unimportant document.  Its clear 
from the wording itself that the FSA was warning investors against dealing with unauthorised 
firms and specifically named Mr Wright.  He was involved in targeting  (to use the FSAs 
phrase) UK based  pension  investors   which should  have been of particular concern for a 
SIPP operator considering accepting business from him.  The warning also provided links to:
A list of unauthorised  firms
A press release about unauthorised firms targeting UK investors
A document telling investors about  the tactics adopted by unauthorised firms  
targeting UK investors.
A document explaining share scams.
So the warning  was more than a mere statement of fact that an unauthorised firm could not 
carry out regulated  activities. It was a clear warning  an alert - relating specifically to 
Mr Wright, providing links to guidance  on consumer protection and warnings about scams. In 
my view the 2010 warning  is as serious in its implications as the 2013  warning. 
So in summary,  if Carey had undertaken sufficient  due diligence on CL&P  it would  have 
discovered that its director Terence Wright was on the FSA warning list and acting fairly and 
reasonably it should  have  declined to do business  with him. I think  this alone was sufficient 
for Carey to conclude that acting fairly and reasonably and taking account  of the need to act 
in Mr Bs best interests  it should not have accepted business from CL&P.  
CL&Ps business model 
As Ive highlighted above, in the circumstances, I think that acting in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mr B fairly, the 2010 warning alone 
should have resulted in Carey declining to do business with CL&P. However,  as Carey does 
not accept that the 2010 warning should  have led it to conclude  it should not accept 
business from CL&P I have, for completeness, considered what other  due diligence Carey 
should have carried  out, as an absolute  minimum.
Carey should have made enquiries to satisfy  itself CL&P was not conducting business in a 
way that could result in a real risk of detriment for consumers.  In complying with its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mr B fairly, it is fair and reasonable to say 
that Carey should  have  ensured that it fully understood CL&Ps  business model before it 
accepted any business from it. And I note Carey appears to have recognised  this itself, 
having explained in the introduction to the non-regulated introducer profile As an FSA 
regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on 
unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce  client to us to gain some insight into the 
business they carry out.
In response to the investigators view, Carey  says that it reasonably  considered at all times  
Ref: DRN887627920that CL&P was an unregulated introducer  which was not providing advice. However, I dont 
agree that this is a reasonable conclusion given the information that was either readily  
available at the time or that could have been  discovered through  a basic  level of due 
diligence. Rather,  I think there  was a significant  risk that CL&P  was targeting  UK pension  
consumers and giving them  advice even though it was not regulated  to do so. 
Mr B says he received  advice. And I think its fair to say that its unusual  for people  to make 
important decisions about their pensions without advice or a recommendation about  where  
to invest funds  particularly where the investment is high risk and unregulated.  Theres  also 
no suggestion that Mr B spoke to anyone else about  his pension options or that any other  
party was involved.  So I think  on balance  its likely  that Mr B was advised  by CL&P to make 
the Store First investment. 
This is the kind of risk that ought  to have been at the forefront of Careys  thinking when 
dealing with an unregulated business  like CL&P - especially because  of the regulators 
warning about  Mr Wright who the FSA believed was targeting  UK customers, and the 
reference to advice  contained in the print out of CL&Ps website Carey had regard to. 
I think given Careys regulatory obligations, it is fair and reasonable to say that it should  have  
taken steps to understand much more  about what CL&Ps business model involved beyond 
the limited information  contained in the non-regulated  introducer profile and the other basic  
enquiries that it made. Carey should,  for example, have followed up on the very brief 
answers provided on the introducer profile about  how CL&P  actually contacted potential 
customers, the type of investments it would be introducing, what  information was being 
provided to customers,  what steps  were being taken to ensure  that customers  were not 
advised or were  directed to a regulated adviser, and how CL&P  ensured that it was not 
conducting other regulated activities. 
If it had conducted  further enquiries as part of its due diligence before accepting  this 
business I think Carey would have (or ought to have) identified  that it was unusual that 
CL&P, an unregulated business based in Spain, was contacting  consumers in the UK about 
pension investments. I think its likely that it would have found that CL&P  was calling  
customers to discuss  their pensions, that it specialised in a few high risk esoteric 
investments and, following contact from CL&P,  and without the involvement of any other 
regulated parties,  many  UK consumers  were transferring their pensions  to SIPPs to make 
these investments. I also think its likely that Carey  would have found that there were 
insufficient safeguards  against advice being  given.  
Knowing this, and the regulators  warning  about  Mr Wright, I think  Carey ought to have 
identified that there  was a real and significant risk of consumer detriment in introductions 
made to it by CL&P. This ought to have given it further reason  to conclude that it would not 
be consistent with its regulatory obligations - it would not be treating Mr B fairly and in his 
best interests - to accept business from CL&P.
I accept that there is a possibility that, if Carey  had made enquiries, CL&P  might not have 
been forthcoming with information about  its business model.  But that is not a reasonable 
basis for not making  reasonable enquires.  Further, if CL&P  was reluctant or refused to 
provide information  about its business model  or if its answers  were  ambiguous  and 
contradictory, that ought to have been something in and of itself that made  Carey  concerned  
about the integrity and motivations of those operating CL&P.  As such, I think  this too should 
have led Carey to conclude that there  was a real risk of consumer detriment and that it 
would not be treating  Mr B fairly and in his best interests in accepting his introduction from 
Ref: DRN887627921CL&P.  
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think  in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Carey failed to conduct  
sufficient due diligence on CL&P before  accepting  business from it, and if it had carried  out 
proper due diligence,  it ought to have  concluded  that it should not accept any business from 
CL&P. I therefore conclude that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that 
Carey should not have  accepted Mr Bs application.
further points  
cash incentives 
Carey has said that had Mr B acted  reasonably  and honestly and told it about the 
inducement payment then Carey would not have proceeded with the investment and Mr B 
would not have suffered the losses he has.
In November 2011 (before Mr Bs pension transfer  had completed and investment had been  
made) Carey became aware  of a number of consumers  who had received incentive 
payments to move their pensions to Carey.   Such  payments are against  the rules  covering 
pensions and can attract a substantial tax charge from HMRC.   On becoming aware of this 
Carey spoke to CL&P.  But I think it ought  to have spoken to consumers directly  about this, 
not just to CL&P.  And I think  such action would  have  led to the conclusion  that cash  
incentive payments  were  being offered by CL&P. 
So, by the time Mr B made the investment Carey should have been aware that CL&P  had 
been making illegal payments  to investors. However, its action to merely ask CL&P  whether 
that was correct was in my view inadequate. It accepted at face value what  CL&P  said but 
did not investigate  further. If Carey  had asked the investors making the Store First 
investments I consider  it more likely than not that they would have established  the CL&P  
were arranging for incentive payments  to be made.   As a result  of this knowledge, as Carey 
accepts, it would not have allowed the investment  to be made.
In the light of that, I think Carey ought to have concluded it would not be consistent with its 
regulatory obligations to deal with any further business from CL&P   whether that was new 
business or pipeline business consisting of applications accepted but not completed.  It 
should not therefore have  proceeded with Mr Bs transfer or investment, in the light of this 
knowledge. I think Careys awareness of cash incentives should have led to conclude it 
should not proceed with all business brought to it by CL&P.  In light of this serious  allegation 
I think Carey should have questioned whether CL&P  was a suitable  and trustworthy  firm to 
be dealing  with. In my mind this should  have been  a significant red flag.  
There is no evidence Mr B had any particular expertise in pensions or investments and his 
representative has said he did not. I do not believe it likely that he understood that the 
payment he received could be in breach of pension legislation, or the importance of 
disclosing any such payment. In any event Mr B should not have arrived at the point when 
he may have been required to make  any such disclosure because, for the reasons I have set 
out, I do not think Carey  should have accepted Mr Bs application at all.    
Ref: DRN887627922should Carey have  proceeded  regardless?  
the member declaration  and indemnities 
The member  declaration signed by Mr B does give clear warnings about the loss of 
guaranteed benefits that would result from the transfer to the Carey SIPP. And the indemnity  
sought to confirm that Mr B was aware  the investment  was high risk, had taken his own 
advice, and would not hold Carey  responsible  for any liability resulting  from the investment. 
The main  point to make here is that Carey  should  never have accepted the business  from 
CL&P, for the reasons  given. So Mr B should never  have got to the point of signing a 
member declaration, or the indemnities, as the business should  not have come  about at all. 
In any event, I dont think  these documents, in themselves, are sufficient for me to conclude 
that Carey acted fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Bs instructions. 
The FSAs 2009 report said that SIPP operators  should, as an example of good practice, be:
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers  taking 
responsibility for investment decisions and gathering and analysing data regarding  the 
aggregate volume of such business.
With this in mind, I think Carey ought to have been  cautious about accepting  Mr Bs 
application because  of the documents he had signed. There was no evidence of any other 
(than Carey)  regulated party being  involved in this transaction.  In these circumstances I think 
very little comfort could  have been taken from a declaration by Mr B that he had decided  not 
to take advice (in relation  to the transfer of his pension) and understood the risks or the 
indemnity stating that Mr B had taken his own advice, and understood the risks (in relation to 
the investment). 
Carey accepting business whilst  asking Mr B to sign documents to absolve it of all 
responsibility was not treating Mr B fairly,  given what Carey ought to have known. Carey was 
the regulated  entity here. It had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory 
obligations that Ive set out in this decision. In my view,  asking  Mr B to sign a declaration and 
an indemnity absolving it of all responsibility when  it ought to have known that Mr Bs 
dealings with CL&P were  putting him at significant  risk was not the fair and reasonable thing 
to do. It should  have  refused the business,  not gone  ahead regardless and asked Mr B to 
absolve it of the consequences. 
COBS 11.2.19R
I note that Carey has in other cases made the point that COBS 11.2.19R obliged  it to 
execute investment  instructions. It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, 
it is obligated to execute the specific instructions of its client.  
However, in the circumstances,  it is my view that the crux of the issue in this complaint is 
whether Carey should have accepted the SIPP application from CL&P and established  
Mr Bs SIPP  in the first place. And, for the reasons  I set out above, it is my view that Carey 
should not have done so. 
This argument was considered by the judge in the recent case  of Berkeley Burke v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 2878 (Admin) .  In this case the judge  said:  
Ref: DRN887627923The heading  to COBS  11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which orders  
are to be executed:  i.e. on terms most  favourable to the client. This is consistent  with the 
heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely:  Best execution.  The text of COBS 11.2.1R is to 
the same  effect.  The expression when  executing  orders indicates that it is looking at the 
moment when the firm comes to execute  the order, and the way in which the firm must then 
conduct itself. It is concerned with the mechanics of execution; a conclusion  reached,  albeit 
in a different context,  in Bailey & Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras  [34]  
[35]. It is not addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order  should be 
executed at all. I agree  with the FCAs submission that COBS  11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client  orders, and is designed  to 
achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being executed, 
and refers to the factors  that must  be taken  into account when deciding how best to execute 
the order. It has nothing  to do with the question of whether or not the order should be 
accepted in the first place.
I therefore dont  think that Careys argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under 
the Principles  to decide whether or not to accept an application to open a SIPP  in the first 
place. 
payment for upset
Carey has also said it considers the £500 suggested by the investigator to compensate Mr B 
for the upset caused by losing a large  proportion of his pension to be excessive and 
unjustified.  I do not agree.   Mr Bs complaint has been made on his behalf by a Claims 
Management Company and the original letter of complaint  said:
Our client has also been caused  worry and distress by the significant loss of his pension 
fund and seeks an additional award  of compensation to reflect this.
Whilst Mr B has not gone into any detail,  it is in my view unarguable that he will have been 
distressed by the loss of a large proportion of his entire pension. When  making  an award for 
this type of upset  I have  to be consistent  with other  awards made by this service in similar 
circumstances.  So taking  these  factors  into consideration  I agree with the sum suggested  by 
the investigator.     
in conclusion
All in all, I do not consider  that Carey acted  with due skill, care and diligence, organised and 
controlled its affairs responsibly, or treated  Mr B fairly or acted in his best interests by 
accepting Mr Bs business from CL&P. To my mind, Carey did not meet its regulatory 
obligations, and allowed  Mr B to be put at significant risk of detriment as a result.  
To be clear, I am not making  a finding  that Carey should have assessed  the suitability of the 
investment or the SIPP for Mr B. I accept Carey  had no obligation to give advice to Mr B, or 
otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or investment for him. My finding  is not 
that Carey should  have  concluded that the investment or SIPP  was not suitable  for Mr B.  It 
is that Carey did not meet  its regulatory obligations and should not have accepted  the 
business from CL&P. It failed to treat Mr B fairly  or act with due skill, care and diligence or 
take reasonable care to organise  and control its affairs responsibly by doing  so. And, in the 
circumstances, it is fair and reasonable for Carey to be held responsible for its failings.
Ref: DRN887627924is it fair to ask Carey  to compensate Mr B? 
In deciding whether  Carey  is responsible  for any losses that Mr B has suffered on his Store 
First investment I need to look at what would have happened if Carey had done what  it 
should have done i.e. not accepted his application.   
Had Carey undertaken  sufficient due diligence before or at the time Mr Bs business  was 
introduced to it, it ought to have concluded that it should not accept business from CL&P. 
That should  have been the end of the matter  it should have told Mr B that it could not 
accept the business.  And I am satisfied, if that had happened, the arrangement for Mr B 
would not have come about in the first place, and the loss he suffered could have been  
avoided. The financial loss has flowed from Mr B transferring out of his existing pension and 
into a SIPP.   For the reasons  I set out below  I am satisfied that, had the SIPP  application not 
been accepted, the loss would not have been suffered. 
Had Carey explained  to Mr B that it would not accept the application from CL&P  I find it very 
unlikely that he would  have tried to find another SIPP operator to accept the business,  cash  
incentive or not. He is likely to have had no trust in CL&P once he became aware Carey 
would not accept the business. In any event, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to say that 
Carey should not be responsible for its errors  because another SIPP  operator would have 
made the same mistakes. I think its fair instead  to assume that another  SIPP  provider 
wouldnt have processed the transaction if it had carried  out sufficient due diligence  in 
accordance with its own regulatory responsibilities  and good  industry  practice. So again,  I 
think the end result would have  been  that Mr B would not have made  the Store First 
investment or the transfer from his existing pension that preceded it. 
So I am satisfied that Mr B would not have  continued with the SIPP,  had it not been for 
Careys failings, and would have remained in his existing  pension scheme.  And,  whilst  I 
accept that CL&P  is responsible for initiating the course of action that has led to his loss, I 
consider that Carey  failed unreasonably to put a stop to that course of action  when it had the 
opportunity and obligation to do so.
In making these findings, I take account the potential contribution made by other parties  to 
the losses suffered  by Mr B. In my view, in considering what fair compensation looks  like in 
this case, it is reasonable to make an award against  Carey that requires it to compensate  
Mr B for the full measure of his loss. But for Careys  failings, Mr Bs pension transfer would 
not have occurred in the first place. 
I am not asking Carey  to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. 
I am satisfied those failings have  caused the full extent of the loss in question.   That other 
parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter,  which  I am not able 
to determine.  However, that fact should  not impact on Mr Bs right to compensation from 
Carey for the full amount  of his loss.  
putting things right
My aim is to return Mr B to the position he would now be in but for what  I consider to be 
Careys failure to carry out adequate  due diligence checks before accepting  Mr Bs SIPP 
application from CL&P.  
Ref: DRN887627925In light of the above, Carey should calculate fair compensation  by comparing the current  
position to the position  Mr B would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pension. 
In summary,  Carey should:
1.Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result  of making the transfer. 
2.Take ownership of the Store  First investment.
3.Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Bs pension.   If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr B direct. In either case  the payment should  take into 
account necessary  adjustments set out below.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Lastly, in order  to be fair to Carey, it should  have the option  of payment of this redress  being 
contingent upon Mr B assigning  any claim he may have against  CL&P,  to Carey. The terms 
of the assignment  should require Carey to account  to Mr B for any amount it subsequently  
recovers against CL&P that exceeds  the loss paid to Mr B. 
Ill explain  how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further  detail 
below:
1.Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result  of making the transfer
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Bs pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where  it was instead  of transferring to the SIPP.  
Carey should ask Mr B's former pension provider to calculate the current notional  transfer 
value had he not transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total Return  index should  be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved if suitable funds  had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared  to the transfer  value of the SIPP at the date 
of this decision and this will show the loss Mr B has suffered. The Store First investment 
should be assumed  to have no value.  Account should however be taken of the cash back 
payment paid out to Mr B.
2.Take ownership of the Store  First investment
I understand Carey  has been able to take ownership  of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. It should do that here, if possible, so Mr B can close  his SIPP.  
If Carey is unable  to take ownership of the Store First investment, it should remain  in the 
SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely to have any value  in the future,  and I 
understand Mr B has the option  of returning his investment  to the freeholder  for nil 
consideration, which would enable him to close his SIPP. 
In the event the investment remains in the SIPP and Mr B decides not to transfer it to the 
freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs associated  with the 
investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any other  
Ref: DRN887627926charges. He should also be aware  it is unlikely he will be able to make  a further complaint 
about these costs. 
3.Pay compensation to Mr B for loss he has suffered  calculated  in (1). 
If possible the compensation  for the loss should  be paid into the pension.  The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. Payment into the pension should allow  for the effect  of charges and any available  
tax relief.  This may mean the compensation should  be increased to cover the charges and 
reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr B could claim. The notional  allowance 
should be calculated  using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax.  
On the other hand, Mr B may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should  be paid to Mr B direct.  But  had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr B should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance  should be calculated  using 
Mr Bs marginal  rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance  would equate  to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent  to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have been able to 
take a tax free lump  sum, the notional  allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B has been caused some distress by the loss of a large  proportion  of his pension 
benefits. Mr B has found the loss of his pension money very worrying, and distressing.  I 
consider that a payment  of £500 is appropriate  to compensate for that upset.
SIPP fees
The investigator said in his view that future SIPP fees should be waived. However,  as the 
investment can be removed from the SIPP  I do not think any allowance needs to be made 
for future fees. As mentioned, if Mr B decides  to retain  the investment (assuming Carey  does  
not take ownership) he should  be aware  that he is liable for the future  costs  associated with 
it. 
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within  28 days of the date Carey  receives  
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added  to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that I uphold  Mr Bs complaint . Options  SIPP UK LLP 
should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Ref: DRN887627927David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8876279