K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that MBNA Limited wont refund payments totalling over £2,000 over a 
period of nearly a year. The payments were made  to a website, and Mr T says MBNA should  
have identified that they were unusual and should  have  brought  them to his attention.   
background
Mr T contacted MBNA in September 2018  when  he identified that a large number of 
payments had been taken from his credit card. He said he hadnt made them  and didnt 
recognise them. 
MBNA contacted the merchant concerned, who said that Mr T had set up a membership 
using his name, address and email address.
Mr T later explained that a friend  had suggested he join and that he had entered  his card 
details, thinking  they would be used  for verification purposes only. He admits that he didnt 
read the terms and conditions before  doing that. 
Mr T didnt  think  it was fair that MBNA  was holding him liable for the transactions,  given  the 
circumstances. He thought as well that MBNA  should have  alerted  him to what  was 
happening and that he should  have received statements which  would have shown the 
transactions. 
Mr T referred the matter  to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He didnt 
think MBNA had treated  Mr T unfairly, however, and didnt recommend that it refund  the 
payments. Mr T didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman  review 
the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did. 
I should say first of all that I have a good deal of sympathy with Mr T. I dont believe this is a 
case where someone has deliberately sought to deny transactions they know theyve made.  
Rather, I think  Mr T inadvertently signed  up for a subscription without realising that he was 
doing so. And, because  he rarely  uses his credit  card and wasnt receiving paper 
statements, it was some time before he found out. 
I dont believe however that someone else took out the membership pretending to be Mr T. 
There would  have been no benefit  in doing so. And what  he has said about the 
circumstances is entirely  consistent with that. As I say, I think he inadvertently agreed to 
membership and to allow  payments  to be taken from his card.  Its possible too that the 
website was set up in such a way that it wasnt obvious that would happen. It may be that 
Mr T will be able to take that up with the site, but what  I have to decide is whether MBNA 
should do anything  different. 
Mr T says he didnt  receive paper statements. But the banks records show  that the reason 
for that is that hed registered for online statements. It sent him emails when statements 
were ready, but it seems they went to an email address he wasnt  using. And, since  he 
thought the card wasnt being used, he wasnt expecting them.  
Ref: DRN81457842Mr T says too that MBNA should  have been monitoring the account and should have 
identified that the payments were unusual.  I agree  that they were   in the sense that they 
were out of character for Mr T. But I dont agree that MBNA was required to monitor his 
account in the way he suggests. 
For these reasons, I dont  believe I should make MBNA refund the payments.  I would 
however remind MBNA of its obligations towards  customers in financial difficulty,  since that 
might apply to Mr T. And I would encourage it to assist Mr T as far as possible, should he 
decide to seek  a refund directly from the merchant. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require MBNA to do anything further to resolve Mr Ts 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8145784