K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK plc didnt let him know when  the fixed term ended on his 
mortgage. 
background
Mr G transferred his mortgage  product in 2015 and fixed  the interest rate for two years. 
When the fixed rate ended the mortgage  moved  to Santanders standard  variable rate 
(SVR). This meant  the monthly  repayments  were more than he had been paying and the 
interest rate was higher.  He transferred to a different product in 2018.  
Mr G complained to Santander  that, when the fixed rate term ended,  he wasnt  notified.  And 
he feels he has been paying more than he shouldve been between 2017  and 2018. He 
thinks Santander should reimburse  the difference in the interest  rates because it failed to tell 
him about better products  sooner.
Santander said that it wrote to Mr G in July 2017  to let him know that the rate would end and 
that his monthly  mortgage repayments  would  increase. It sent the letter  to the 
correspondence address it held but Mr G didnt receive it. It accepted that there  had been 
some confusion over Mr Gs correct address and paid £250 for the inconvenience it had 
caused because  of this.
The investigator thought that this complaint should be upheld  in part. She said that 
Santander had made a mistake by incorrectly recording Mr Gs address, which  meant he 
didnt receive the letter.  But she didnt think it was fair to ask Santander  to backdate  the new 
fixed rate of interest  because Mr G had signed  and agreed to the terms of the mortgage and 
knew that the interest was fixed for two years from 2015. She said that his mortgage 
repayments increased by over £100  when the fixed term ended and this should  have  alerted  
him to the change. She did consider that Santander  should pay Mr G a further £200 for the 
inconvenience it had caused.
Mr G disagreed. In summary, he said that Santander had his correct address in its records  
for other products he held with it and he isnt any obligation to look at his statements, so 
didnt notice the increase. He says Santander has breached its own terms and conditions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2015 Mr G agreed  to fix the interest  rate for his mortgage.  He received a copy  of the 
mortgage offer and signed the paperwork  to say he was happy  with the rate and the term. 
He agreed a fixed rate of 3.49% until July 2017  and its clear that the rate would revert to the 
SVR (then  4.74%) once  the fixed term expired.
Mr G says that Santander should have  written to him when  his fixed  interest rate product 
came to an end in July 2017. Santander says that it does notify its customers when their 
product is coming  to an end detailing that their mortgage will move to SVR in accordance  
with the mortgage terms.  It says it wrote to Mr G in July 2017 to let him know  about  the 
interest rate and that his mortgage repayments would increase and what  they would be.
Ref: DRN82268512Mr G says that he didnt receive this letter  because Santander sent it to the wrong  address,  
even though it had his correct address in its records. He thinks that because it failed to give 
him notice,  in accordance with the mortgage  terms, Santander should backdate his new 
mortgage to when the previous fixed rate ended. 
There are regulations set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) known  as the Mortgages 
and Home Finance:  Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB)  and guidelines issued by the 
Council Mortgage  Lenders (CML)  about  the responsibilities and best practice of lenders and 
brokers with mortgages.  But, looking at these there is nothing to say that a lender like 
Santander has a responsibility to inform  a consumer that a mortgage with a better or lower 
rate of interest is available than their current  one.
Ive also looked  at the terms  and conditions of the mortgage agreement that Mr G took out in 
2015. And I cant see anything that says Santander (as a lender) has a responsibility to 
inform a consumer  that there is a mortgage  with a better or lower  interest  rate than the 
current one in force.
I appreciate Mr G feels very strongly  about this issue.  But he had signed the mortgage loan 
agreement, accepting the terms of his mortgage, and these clearly set out when the fixed  
rate would finish and the mortgage would revert  to the standard  variable rate (SVR). 
And Santander wasnt obliged to tell Mr G that his fixed rate product was about  to come to 
an end, and nor did it have to offer him alternatives. I think  the mortgage offer in 2015 made 
it very clear when his product would end, and that the mortgage would then go onto the 
standard variable  interest rate.
Overall, I consider that the information had been  provided to Mr G and it was up to him to 
monitor his account.  Although  I accept it is good practice for lenders to write to borrowers  
towards the maturity  of a fixed term, as Ive already explained, lenders arent  obliged  to do 
this. So I dont agree that the Santander should  refund  the difference  in the interest  rates 
between July 2017 and September 2018,  when he accepted a new mortgage product.
Santander accepts  that it has made a mistake and provided inadequate  customer  service  by 
sending letters to the wrong address. It suggests that the mistake arose when  two of its 
systems were merged and this affected letters about  this mortgage. It has already paid £250 
and confirmed that it has corrected Mr Gs address in its records.  Having considered the full 
circumstances of the complaint I dont consider this to be enough. Santander has sent letters 
to a house where he no longer resides  and it has caused him inconvenience.  I agree with 
the investigator that Santander should  pay a further  £200.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Santander UK plc to pay Mr 
G another £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8226851