K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case. Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B took the PPI with a further  advance on their mortgage. The cover was on Mr B 
only. Mr and Mrs B dont  believe they needed  the cover and theyve said they wouldnt have 
asked for it. But theyve also said they dont  have a clear memory of what was said at the 
time. Given the time that has passed, that isnt surprising. Nationwide hasnt  been  able to 
provide any of Mr and Mrs Bs documentation  from the time of the sale.  Again, that isnt 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr and Mrs B didnt agree to the PPI. Also there 
isnt anything to suggest that they werent  aware  the PPI was something separate from the 
further advance  they were  taking. Mr and Mrs B have said Nationwide forced them into 
taking the PPI. But as they dont recall what discussions took place at the time  and taking  
into account also how long ago the sale took place, I dont find what  Mr and Mrs B have said 
about this persuasive.  Taking into account  everything I have,  there isnt enough to make me 
think Nationwide didnt  make it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt  have to take the PPI.
Nationwide says it wouldnt have  given Mr and Mrs B personalised advice about the PPI but 
sold it instead without  advice. Mr and Mrs B have said Nationwide must have promoted the 
PPI. But theyve told us they cant remember if Nationwide gave advice or recommended  
they take the PPI. Overall I dont have  anything persuasive to make me think Nationwide 
gave advice or led Mr and Mrs B to believe it would check  the PPI was right for them.  So, on 
balance, I think Nationwide sold the PPI without giving advice. This means Nationwide didnt 
have to check the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances. But it did have to make  
sure Mr and Mrs B got the information  they needed to decide  if the PPI was right for them.
I dont know exactly what information  Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs B about  the cover  before 
they agreed to it. So its possible the information wasnt  as full or as clear as it shouldve  
been. But, from what Ive seen, Mr B wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and couldve  claimed on it. For example hes told us he didnt  have existing 
health issues, so he wouldnt  have been affected by any exclusion for existing health issues.  
It also looks like the PPI was affordable insurance  at the time Mr and Mrs B bought it.
Mr and Mrs B have  said redundancies were  almost always carried  out on a voluntary basis 
where Mr B worked  so they wouldve  been unlikely to be able to claim even if Mr B did 
become unemployed. Theyve added  that Mr Bs situation meant he was unlikely  to have 
much trouble  finding another job. And theyve  said he was entitled to twelve  months  full sick 
pay, so they didnt need the sickness  cover. On this basis they say they didnt need the 
cover, and theyve  said they recall thinking this later.
But I havent seen  anything to make me think Mr and Mrs B werent aware the policy  was 
cover for disability and unemployment. And I havent seen enough to make me think that 
Ref: DRN86721312they didnt choose to take the cover for Mr B. So it looks to me like they saw some benefit at 
the time in having this sort of cover for Mr B. For a successful disability or unemployment 
claim the benefit would  pay out for up to 24 months   longer than Mr Bs full work sick pay 
wouldve lasted at the time. And what Mr B has said doesnt mean  he couldnt have suffered 
compulsory redundancy. Taking all this into account, on balance  I dont think better or more 
detailed information  about the PPI wouldve put Mr and Mrs B off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Bs points, including what theyve  said about commission  
and Nationwide  being incentivised to sell the PPI. But, with what  Ive already said above in 
mind, theres isnt enough to make me think Mr and Mrs B were pressured  into buying the 
PPI. And although Mr and Mrs B have said they had a PPI complaint upheld on their credit  
card, the PPI here was protection for their mortgage and Ive assessed it, as I must, on its 
own merits. For these reasons, and in the light of the reasons Ive already given above, 
these points dont  change my decision.
What Ive said above means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs B. But Nationwide  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B 
because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. If Mr and Mrs B need the 
cheque to be reissued for any reason, they should contact Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8672131