K821x#15complaint
Ms O is unhappy with the way that QIC Europe Ltd has dealt with her home insurance claim 
for water damage to her home.
background
In April 2018 Ms O made a claim to QIC following her discovery of a leak from the soil pipe 
in her kitchen. QIC sent out a surveyor to assess the damage.  Initially the claim was 
declined but as Ms O objected QIC agreed to review  a report  from the emergency  plumber  
who attended. After  reviewing that report and obtaining further  information  from Ms O, QIC 
offered a cash settlement in July 2018, of £463,  net of the £600  excess.
But Ms O informed QIC that the leak was still ongoing and she was advised to get it 
repaired. She did this in August 2018.  QIC advised that a number of leaks  had been found 
and it would only be paying for the damage caused  by the leak from the soil pipe. It sent out 
a surveyor to draw up a further report to identify if the damage was due to the leak from the 
soil pipe. It sent a revised cash  settlement offer to Ms O in October 2018. Ms O wasnt 
happy with this and obtained  her own quote from a local DIY and kitchen supplier  which she 
sent to QIC in November  2018. QIC said the scope was excessive as it involved 
replacement of the whole kitchen. It maintained that it could repair the damaged  parts. After 
further email exchanges QIC revised  its offer and said it would pay 20% towards  the 
undamaged units  in the kitchen. It did say it would reconsider  this if any units were removed 
and found to be damaged by the water leak.
Again Ms O wasnt happy with this so QIC asked  her to obtain  a breakdown of the cost of 
the units and the installation  costs.  Ms O obtained this but the contractor couldnt break 
down the installation costs. QICs final offer, after Ms O referred the matter  to this service  
was to pay for the damaged units and 50% of the undamaged ones with a 30% contribution 
towards the costs  of installation of the undamaged  units. It justified  that offer by saying it had 
estimated the costs  as Ms Os contractor  wasnt able to provide a breakdown of the overall 
installation costs. It also pointed out that several items were being  installed which  werent in 
the kitchen before. It offered  her £600  compensation by waiving the excess, for the failures 
in service.
On referral to this service  our investigator  ultimately said that QIC should  pay for a further  
unit, the cost of a new oven (as it was likely this was affected  by contaminated water) and 
pay a further £600  compensation. The latter figure took into account that Ms O had been 
without a working oven  for a considerable time and had had to use the microwave and pay 
further costs for her food. For the undamaged  units, and QICs contribution towards  these 
she said its position was reasonable.  But that it should consider further payments if on 
removing the units they were  found  to be damaged by the water leak.
QIC didnt agree, it said it was given  no information  by Ms O about the lack of an oven so 
wasnt given the opportunity to do anything about  it.
Ms O didnt agree  she doesnt want have to negotiate with QIC over any further  payments 
and would prefer a full settlement now. In the alternative she said shed asked QIC several  
times to send out its own contractor to carry out the work and it should  do so now.
I issued a provisional decision. I said QIC should  pay the cash  settlement it had offered and 
a further £150 compensation  on top of the waiving of the £600 excess. I didnt think however 
Ref: DRN82726862that it had been shown  that the oven needed replacing. I said it should consider payment in 
full for any units or kitchen  items  if found to be damaged by the water leak from the soil pipe.
Ms O said she didnt  ask for a whole new kitchen  she just wanted QICs contractors to 
come out and repair her kitchen or if not possible to pay for four kitchen units she considered 
damaged by the water leak. She further says that she had kept the house well maintained. 
She had a plumbing and electrics policy and any leaks or problems over the years were  
always dealt with. So she feels  that QIC made  an error  in saying there  were  other  leaks, 
which affected the whole claim.
QIC accepted my provisional  decision.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  are my provisional findings:
offer of settlement
There are several elements to the offer of settlement  payment for the damaged units,  
payment towards  the undamaged units and payment for the cost of installation. QIC has 
offered to pay the cost of supply and installation of two units  it says were  damaged,  50% of 
the cost of the undamaged units and 30% of the cost of installation  of those units. It justifies  
that latter figure as Ms Os contractors were unwilling  to provide a breakdown of the cost of 
installation. And some  of the new kitchen items being installed are extra  i.e. they werent in 
the old kitchen,  so QIC wont pay for those, and has adjusted the payment for installation  to 
reflect that.
Damaged items: £1,469.02 (inc VAT)
50% contribution of undamaged items): £2,810.75 (inc VAT)
Total: £4,279.77 (inc VAT 
The cash  settlement offer is £3,566.47  net of VAT, QIC will make the additional payment of 
£713.30 when  it receives a VAT invoice. 
Our normal approach,  which most insurers follow, is as QIC has offered here, to require the 
insurer pay 50% of the cost of undamaged items  in a set like kitchen units. I have considered  
QICS explanation for its offer towards the installation costs and I find that to be reasonable. I 
dont think its practical  in this case just to replace the damaged units,  but on the other hand 
the policy only covers damage  so the offer of 50% is in my view reasonable. I think  its 
explanation for the overall; offer in respect  of installation is reasonable.
Our investigator identified  that QICs payment doesnt cover the full extent of the damaged 
units. Unfortunately a floor plan hasnt been provided so its difficult to see. As far as the 
documents identify  them,  I think QIC needs  to pay for the sink unit, which  is a corner  unit, 
and a rectangular  unit as the damaged items. If either party  thinks  this is wrong I would invite 
them to supply me with further evidence in response to this provisional decision.
Ref: DRN82726863Ms O has been advised by her contractors that the whole kitchen should be replaced.  But I 
think the justification for that is that the other units might have been  damaged  so its safer  to 
replace them. But I dont think thats  justification  for paying the full costs of replacing them. 
No expert  inspection has been  made of them, though QIC has conceded that they might  
show signs of damage when taken out. Thats unfortunately not going  to be possible to tell 
until they are taken out. 
Our investigator proposed that QIC consider  those  items as and when Ms Os contractors 
take them out. Ms O doesnt want this  she wants a full settlement now or for QIC to send 
out its contractors. I understand this, but I cant make QIC pay the full cost of the units  
unless they have been damaged by the water leak. And the problem with asking QIC to send 
out its contractors is that more of the kitchen  comes (presently) under the undamaged or 
new parts.  So in either case Ms O is likely to be faced with making a contribution. I cant see 
on present evidence that I have any alternative  but to ask QIC to consider further payments 
as and when the units are taken out.
oven
Ms O was advised by her kitchen supplier that Raw sewage emits a number of gases  
which may have contaminated the oven.  I dont think that counts as an expert opinion. I dont 
know of any case where  just the possible  presence of gasses may have affected  a sealed 
oven. Unless it was directly damaged by the leak I cant see any justification for asking QIC 
to pay this.
As Ms O hasnt  used  her oven since the claim,  she has lacked full cooking facilities. But the 
advice from the kitchen supplier was only given  in October/November. I havent seen 
anything from either  of the surveyors sent out by QIC suggesting  it was unusable.  Ms O 
referred to the difficulty in using the shower and washing facilities before  the leak was 
repaired but, although the kitchen  suppliers quote  said the oven  should  be replaced, she did 
have the use of a hob and microwave. Im not persuaded that the compensation offered 
should be increased because of this.
splashbacks and worktops
Ms Os quote allows for their replacement. I understand this but Ive seen no evidence  that 
they were damaged by the leak, so they come  into the category of undamaged  items i.e. 
only 50% should be paid for.
compensation
QIC was slow to help Ms O, she had to arrange  for her own trace  and access despite having 
cover under the policy for it. And I dont think it was made clear to her that it was her 
responsibility to fix the leak. As a result  it continued  for four months. I also dont think QIC 
acted quickly enough to establish its liability for the claim.  And when it did so, it offered a 
cash settlement rather than its own contractors. So Ms O was still having to argue about the 
costs of her claim more than ten months  after it arose. And the cash settlement offered 
increased considerably  over that time. 
QIC has admitted that it was at fault and offered to waive the £600  excess  as compensation. 
I think it should pay total compensation of £750.  It can either pay this as a cash  payment and 
deduct the excess from the settlement  or pay £150  now and add the rest into the 
settlement. 
Ref: DRN82726864Ive considered Ms Os comments, and the photos  she has sent in. But I dont think  this 
shows that there havent been other leaks. Indeed  Ms O says there were  historic leaks which 
affected other parts of the kitchen, which is 18 years old. I dont doubt that she has 
maintained her property,  but it would appear  that whether  they were  noticeable  or not there 
have been other leaks  before the one that she reported to QIC. And as they appear to have 
been some  time ago I dont think its reasonable to expect QIC to pay for any damage 
caused by them.
As for the kitchen, the evidence Ms O has produced is to the effect that the whole kitchen 
needs replacing. And I dont think it would be possible to match old units with new ones  
hence QICs offer concerning the undamaged  units. I note that now Ms O says only four 
units need replacing. Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that QIC needs only to pay in 
full for the two units identified. I think QICs agreement that if further units can be identified  
as being damaged by water from the soil pipe it will pay for them, is fair. I still dont think the 
oven needs replacing, for the reasons Ive set out.
I understand Ms Os desire for QIC to send out its contractors to repair  the kitchen and/or for 
a full and final settlement  to be given to her. But she hasnt accepted  the scope of work  set 
out by QIC with its cash offer. Regrettably  I cant see that a partial repair  of such an old 
kitchen would be a practical solution  in this case so unfortunately  Ms O would have to 
contribute herself towards  the undamaged units.  And as its not possible to say that the units  
are water damaged before taking  them  out, I cant say at this point that QIC should pay for 
them. 
In my view QICs  offer is reasonable. I know this means Ms O may have to negotiate  further 
with QIC but I cant, on present evidence, see any justification for asking QIC to increase its 
settlement.
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require QIC Europe  Ltd to:
pay a cash settlement to Ms O as set out above.
pay, if established that this is a further  cost, the cost of the damaged rectangular kitchen 
unit.
consider payment in full for any units or kitchen  items if found  to be damaged by the 
water leak from the soil pipe.
pay £750 compensation, either  as a cash payment or by a payment of £150 and adding  
the balance to the settlement by way of waiving the excess.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask  Ms O  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82726865
Ref: DRN8272686