K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998 and 2002. Mr C says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham  & 
Gloucester) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Based  on copies of the paperwork completed in 1998 and 2002,  I think  Lloyds made 
it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out  
although I can understand why he may not remember  this. Ive also noted that Mr C 
hasnt complained that he was told he had to take PPI or that he didnt consent to 
taking it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Although Mr C initially complained that he wouldnt be able to claim on the PPI, 
based on everything Ive seen,  including his employment, I dont think that it would 
have been very difficult for him to claim.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what hes said about not 
taking the PPI if hed been given clear information  on the commission  and profit 
share figures. 
I cant say for certain what decision Mr C would have made  if he had been given the 
information hes referred to, as it seems he wanted  PPI and he had a need  for it 
based on what hes told us about his circumstances.  But as Ive explained below, 
I think what Lloyds have  offered is a fair way to resolve the whole complaint  as I dont 
think that the PPI was mis-sold.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C (if it hasnt already done  so) 
because: 
Ref: DRN81460282Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr C any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr C the extra he paid each month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr C 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand that Lloyds  made an offer to Mr C 
some time ago, but its not clear  if he has already  accepted the offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8146028