K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The complaint is brought on their behalf  by a claims management 
company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in or around 2000 most  likely when 
Mr and Mrs G were applying for a loan secured on their home. The policy provided them with 
cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment and, in all likelihood, the benefit was split 
equally between them.
Santander was trading  as National & Provincial  at the time. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
the lender as Santander throughout my decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs G didnt 
agree saying, in summary, that they werent  made  aware of the PPI and it was added 
without them knowing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Santander has only been able to provide a very limited amount of information about the sale,  
which isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given this took place so long ago. In cases  like this, 
where the evidence  is incomplete or contradictory,  I have to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have happened  in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint for the following reasons:
Taking into account that the policy was a separate product to the mortgage, my view is that it 
is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G had to complete separate  documents  to request 
that PPI be taken out. It seems to me that this increases the likelihood that PPI was 
presented as an optional product. On balance,  I consider that Mr and Mrs G were offered 
PPI as an option, and that they chose  to take it out.
Santander says it advised Mr and Mrs G to take out PPI. It therefore had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable.  It also had to give clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the PPI so that Mr and Mrs G could make a properly informed  
choice.
Ref: DRN83976942Having looked  at Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances when the policy was sold, my view is that it 
was suitable for them  for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs G were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
They  werent  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits  such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
they couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr and Mrs G told us they didnt  need  the policy  because they would have received 
generous pay from their employers if they couldnt work  due to sickness or an accident. 
And they had some  savings.  But, from what we know of policies sold around this time, 
the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 24 months  for a successful claim.  And this would 
have been in addition to any other benefits  Mr and Mrs G would receive, and regardless 
of any savings held. 
A payment from the PPI policy would have  meant  that Mr and Mrs G did not need  to use 
any savings they had to cover  their mortgage  repayments. The policy wouldve also 
covered them if theyd become unemployed. So I dont think  their existing arrangements 
made the policy unsuitable, bearing in mind  the mortgage was a major  long term 
financial commitment and that their home was at risk if they couldnt  meet  the 
repayments.
Its not clear whether  the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs G 
before they agreed  to purchase it. I dont think they were  told it would  cost around 
£10.70 each month  until after the mortgage had started. For this reason  I have  
considered whether clearer  information about  the cost would have affected their 
decision to purchase  the policy. They chose to take out the policy  knowing they would 
have to pay something  for it. The policy was competitively  priced  and a relatively  small 
cost in relation to their mortgage.  So I think it unlikely  they would have made a different 
decision if better  information  about the cost had been  provided.
There might  have been other areas  in which Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs G as much 
information as it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy 
was suitable, my view is that better information  would not have put them  off taking out the 
PPI. My conclusion is that the policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8397694