K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  her three 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out with a personal  loan in May 
2000, March 2001 and April 2001. Each  loan paid off the balance of the preceding loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss G didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Gs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Gs complaint. I explain why below.
I have seen the loan agreements for the sales. The credit agreements  describe the PPI as, 
Optional Credit Insurance.  The agreements explain  the cost and show how that adds to the 
total monthly payment. So, I think its more likely that PPI was presented  as optional  and 
Miss G chose  to take it on each  occasion  and thats how it came to be applied to her loan 
accounts. 
Nationwide says the policies were sold without  a formal recommendation. Ive been  shown  
no documentary evidence  that suggests  that the policies were sold on an advised basis. So, 
Nationwide had to give Miss G clear enough information about  the policy so she could 
decide if she wanted to buy them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  would have stopped Miss G from buying 
it. I explain why I say that below. 
Miss G was eligible for the policies. And there are things that sometimes arent covered by 
policies like these, or for which the benefit might  be more difficult to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems  that Miss G wouldnt  have  been affected  by those things. In saying 
this, I note that Miss G initially  told us that she had no pre-existing medical conditions at the 
time of the sales. Because Miss G changed her subsequent testimony we asked for some  
evidence to clarify the situation.
Miss Gs GP provided details of some medical  conditions but none of them pre-existed the 
time of the sales. So I dont think better  information  on this point  would have put Miss G off 
the policies. 
And I think that Miss G had, most  likely, a need  for the cover  the policies  could provide. I say 
that as Miss G told us she had little or no sick pay and no other means she could rely on in 
that instance, or if she lost her job. But these policies could have paid out for up to a year if 
Miss G lost her job, and for the duration of the loan if she was too ill to work through 
Ref: DRN83877562sickness or accident. So, having considered this, I think that Miss G would have found the 
policies useful.
The policies appear to have been flexible in that Miss G may have got back a pro rata refund 
of the PPI premium  if she cancelled a policy early. So I dont think this meant the policies 
werent right for her. 
And whilst I could understand  it if Miss G thought now that the policies were expensive,  I 
think the costs were set out clearly on the agreements and I havent seen anything to make 
me think the policies were  unaffordable to Miss G or that she had a need to keep costs  
down. And given how long the policies could have paid out for, most likely, if Miss G made a 
successful claim, she could have got back quite a bit more  than she paid for them. So I dont 
think that in this case the cost made  the policies unsuitable for Miss G.
So for the reasons given above  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Miss 
G off taking out the cover. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI sold to Miss G in April 2001  because: 
When the policy for the last loan was sold, Nationwide  expected to get a high level of 
commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Miss 
G about that. Because Nationwide didnt  tell Miss G, that was unfair. 
To put that right,  Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
The loans  were successive with the later loans paying off the earlier  loans. So it seems that the 
dates of these  loans mean that there is nothing further to be paid on the two earlier  loans. 
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Miss G any commission  and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Miss G any extra interest Miss G 
paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Miss G the extra she paid each  month on the loan because  
the commission and profit share  was more  than 50% of the PPI premium  - including any 
extra Miss G paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide  should  also pay Miss G 8%* 
simple interest on the extra paid each month.
Both parties  acknowledge  Miss G went into arrears on the last loan. Nationwide  has said it 
intends to use any compensation  so calculated towards reducing the money it says Miss G 
owes it. And I think thats not unfair.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss G can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN83877563my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Miss G any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already paid this to Miss G then there is 
no further award I need to make against Nationwide Bank PLC.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8387756