K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Haven Insurance  Company  Limited wont pay his claim made on his 
motor insurance policy.  
background
Mr S was involved  in a non-fault accident  with another  driver. He elected  to claim against the 
other drivers  insurer.  Mr S was unhappy  that Haven had offered him a settlement  for the 
total loss of his car, but the other insurer paid him a sum for repairs. Mr S wants  Haven to 
pay the difference. Mr S was also unhappy with how Haven handled his claim. He said hed 
lost work  because of this. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Mr S 
hadnt made a claim on his policy and so Haven werent responsible  for the other insurers 
offers or Mr Ss losses. She thought  Haven had reasonably assisted Mr S in providing 
information to the other insurer.
Mr S replied  that he thought Haven should  pay him cars pre-accident value. He said the 
other insurer had just paid repair costs and hed sold the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss complaint is against Haven, but Mr S made  his claim following the accident  through 
the other insurer. He did this as it was a non-fault accident and he didnt want  his No Claims 
Discount (NCD) affected.
Haven responded to Mr Ss complaint about  its handling of his claim. It explained that it had 
passed its engineers report  on Mr Ss car to the other insurer  and asked it to pay Mr S the 
cars pre-accident value, less the salvage as Mr S wanted to retain  his car. Haven also said 
it asked the other insurer to pay Mr S for his loss of earnings. So I think Haven reasonably 
argued Mr Ss case against the other insurer.  
I can see that the other insurer  told Mr S that it wasnt prepared  to write off Mr Ss car but to 
pay him cash in lieu for the cost of the repairs caused in the accident.  And it declined  to pay 
for his loss of earnings. But I cant consider whether this was fair or reasonable, or any other  
actions by this insurer,  as the other  insurer is a separate  business  to Haven. 
Our investigator has already explained that Mr S wouldnt be able to bring a complaint about  
the other insurer to us to consider. This is because  he isnt the other insurers customer.  The 
other driver involved in the accident  is the other insurers customer. 
Haven made  an offer to Mr S that he could made a claim on his policy  for the difference 
between the cash  in lieu payment and the cars value less salvage. But Mr S declined  this as 
it would  affect his NCD. 
So I think Haven wasnt obliged to help Mr S with his claim as hed decided to go through  the 
other insurer. I think when Mr S requested Haven to assist him, it responded positively. So I 
cant say that Haven has done  anything  wrong  or needs to pay Mr S any compensation.  
Ref: DRN85811902my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2021.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8581190