K820x#14complaint
The trustees of the H Private Pension, whom  Ill call the trustees, complain that 
Bank of Scotland plc failed to inform them adequately about important features of the 
commercial loan and associated interest rate hedging (or swap) arrangement, which  the 
bank says the trustees entered into with the bank  in 2000. 
background
The swap  had a term of 20 years.  The loan was very large.  
The trustees argue that, although they had solicitors acting for them,  the bank owed a duty 
to provide them with certain information  about  the loan and swap  that they werent aware of, 
in particular:
There was indeed  a swap, not a fixed rate loan as the trustees had expected.
The swap wasnt necessarily suitable  or appropriate for a SIPP.
Very large break costs might be payable if the trustees chose or needed to repay 
the loan early. 
The trustees say their solicitors didnt  provide  them with the information (above) that the 
bank should have provided  them with. They  also say that, if theyd known that information, 
they wouldnt have  entered into the swap.
The trustees also complained the bank hadnt  told them  what  precise interest  rate theyd 
have to pay under the combined loan and swap. A colleague of mine  concluded this aspect 
of the complaint was (a) time-barred but also (b) would  have no merit even if it werent time-
barred. The trustees have accepted this point. 
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold the trustees  complaint.
Our adjudicator also didnt  uphold the complaint. He concluded the trustees had instructed 
solicitors to advise them  on the loan and swap and there was written evidence the trustees 
had acted and relied on the solicitors advice when agreeing  to the loan and swap.
The trustees didnt  accept the adjudicators conclusions. They  said the solicitors hadnt 
provided them with the information they needed,  and the bank was at fault for not providing 
the information itself. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the conduct of business  
rules and the mortgage code. Im sorry to disappoint the trustees  but I too have come to the 
conclusion that their complaint doesnt succeed.
I think the trustees are right that the central question is what  effect  the role of their solicitors 
has or should have  on the merits of the complaint.  
Im clear  the bank wasnt acting as the trustees adviser, financial or otherwise, in relation to 
the loan or the swap. Not only does the documentation specifically exclude such  a 
relationship but the evidence thats still available doesnt indicate the bank gave advice. 
Ref: DRN86306442Im also clear that (a) the contractual  documents made it a condition  of the banks lending  
that the trustees should enter into a swap and that (b) while there  was some delay in 
regularising the signed documentation, there was in all likelihood  a binding  legal contract  
from the outset in relation to both the loan and the swap. 
Ive seen the letter via which the trustees appointed their solicitors  to advise them. The letter 
is dated around three weeks  before  the loan and swap were entered into. The letter  says,  
among other things:
We are instructing you in connection with all matters relating to  the funding.
The letter goes on:
You are to advise [us] in connection with all aspects relating to the funding  of the 
scheme overall. This will be dealt with in conjunction  with your SIPP specialist  
colleagues to ensure  the appropriate terms are available  to us.
I note that the letter  says all matters  and all aspects.
The trustees were themselves solicitors. They appointed other  solicitors,  including 
specialists, to advise  them  on all aspects of the funding of the relevant transaction.  
Ive also seen letters and emails between the trustees and their solicitors dating from the 
time after the loan and swap had been entered into. These make it clear the trustees sought 
and relied on their solicitors advice  in relation to the loan and swap.  Theres a reference,  in 
a letter  from the trustees  to the bank, to the trustees receiving confirmation from the 
solicitors they may safely sign the swap documentation. 
I can also see that, despite strong pressure from the bank to return signed documents about  
the loan and swap, the trustees wouldnt do so until theyd received advice from their 
solicitors.
Taking all this into account, I find that the trustees, as a fact, relied and chose  to rely on their 
solicitors in terms of whether or not to enter into and formalise the loan and the swap,  not on 
the bank. While our usual approach is to say the bank should make  it adequately clear how 
large the break costs might be if a loan and related swap are ended  early, this presupposes 
a degree of reliance  by the borrower  on what the bank has to say. That was lacking in this 
case. The trustees were  expressly relying comprehensively  (all matters , all aspects) on 
their own solicitors specialist advice. 
Finally, I note the trustees argued they should be treated  as if theyd been initially unaware  
theyd entered  into a swap.  However,  the facility letter, which had been seen by the trustees  
solicitors and which had been amended at the solicitors suggestion in respect of the 
material clause, expressly stated the parties  would be entering into a swap. If the trustees 
solicitors didnt make that clear to their clients  and I make no finding this was so  that 
wasnt the fault of the bank. 
Ref: DRN86306443my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold the trustees complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees of the 
H Private Pension to accept or reject my decision before  15 September 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8630644