K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were mis-sold some fee paying packaged bank accounts 
(PBAs) by Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds). 
background
Mrs H held a fee free account with Lloyds  from September 2001.
Mrs H upgraded to a Platinum Added Value  Account (PAVA) which incurred a monthly fee in 
June 2006.
Mr H was added to the account in July 2006.
Mr and Mrs H further upgraded to a Premier Added Value Account (PRAVA)  which  incurred 
a monthly fee in February 2007.
Mr and Mrs H downgraded the account  to a fee free Classic  in April 2008.
Mr and Mrs H upgraded  back to a PAVA in May 2010.
They then upgraded again  to a Premier Vantage Account (PVA) in September  2010.
Mr and Mrs H downgraded to a fee free Classic account in June 2011.
Mr H left the account in December  2011.
Mr and Mrs H say all the PBAs were mis-sold. They say they were pressured  into taking 
them. They werent  aware of all the benefits and so havent used  them all. They say they 
had alternatives to the benefits which they did use. And they say that when  they tried to 
downgrade their PBAs, they were forced to keep them.
Lloyds says that the PBAs were  not mis-sold and it changed Mr and Mrs Hs account  each  
time it was asked to.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and decided that the PBAs  werent 
mis-sold. Mr and Mrs H disagree so the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Firstly I need to consider  whether or not Mr and Mrs H were  aware the PBAs were optional  
on each occasion  and whether they were  given a clear choice in taking  out each account.
I think its more likely than not that they were aware and I say this for the following reasons.
Mrs H had been an employee of a bank for many  years before she took out any of the PBAs  
so I think its more likely than not she was familiar with banking  account products. Lloyds has 
Ref: DRN81692862also provided evidence  that Mrs H had previously had a fee free account with an overdraft 
before she took out the PAVA. And whilst  I dont  doubt their honest recollections I think  its 
more likely than not that on every  occasion Mr and Mrs H changed their bank account they 
were aware that both Lloyds and other banks and financial institutions offered continuing fee 
free bank accounts with overdrafts. I say this because they were widely advertised in a 
competitive market and if Mr and Mrs H hadnt  wanted to pay a fee for an account, I think  
they would  have questioned what they were being  offered and sought  an alternative without 
a fee elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs H say they were pressured into taking out the PBAs. In the case  of Mrs H taking 
out the original  PAVA, this was done online so I cant see that any pressure wouldve been 
applied as there was no direct  contact with Lloyds staff. On the other occasions, Im sure 
Lloyds wouldve been explaining the products in some  depth as it was trying to sell them to 
Mr and Mrs H. And this may have felt like pressure.  But for the same reasons  Ive given 
above I think its more  likely than not they would have felt they could  turn down the PBAs  if 
they hadnt wanted them.
So I think Mr and Mrs H were aware they had a choice and chose to take out the PBAs on 
each occasion.
Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs H to take out the PBAs. So, Lloyds needed to provide 
Mr and Mrs H with sufficient information  about them to make an informed choice.  And in 
recommending the PBAs,  it also needed to take adequate  steps to ensure that they were a 
reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances  each time.
The PAVA contained a range of benefits including worldwide family  travel insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance,  and sentinel card protection. And it offered a 
£250 fee free overdraft limit and better  interest  rates on amounts above that.
The PRAVA contained the same  range of benefits plus others including  home emergency 
cover and a £500  fee free overdraft limit.
The PVA contained essentially the same benefits  as the PRAVA.
I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PBAs but I 
think as Ive said above that its more  likely  than not that Lloyds explained  the products at 
some length  as it was trying to sell the PBAs to them,  and Lloyds has provided evidence 
that it followed up the discussions with detailed documentation. 
When they took out the PBAs Mr and Mrs H were travelling regularly and had a family;  they 
had a car, had a home and mobile phone and were  often  running a substantial  overdraft  on 
the account. Mrs H also qualified for a discounted rate for the PBAs taken out before 2010. 
So I can see why the PBAs  wouldve  been  of interest to them. And I cant  say that the PBAs  
were unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H say that the car they had when  Mrs H first took out the PAVA was old and not 
covered by the car breakdown service. But Lloyds has provided evidence  that the car was 
covered irrespective of its age.
Mr and Mrs H say they couldnt downgrade from the PBAs to a fee free account when they 
wanted to. But Lloyds has provided evidence  that it did downgrade their account to a fee free 
Ref: DRN81692863one when asked  to, and that it has no record of any contact to do so at any other time. So I 
think its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs Hs memory on this is mistaken.
Mr and Mrs H say they werent told everything  about the PBA benefits and so didnt use 
them all. But Mr and Mrs H have acknowledged that they understood the key benefits  of the 
PBAs and Ive found above  that Lloyds did provide enough information  to them. So it was 
for them to then use that information to decide which aspects of the PBAs  benefits they 
wanted to use.
So in my view Mr and Mrs H knew they had a choice when they took out the PBAs and 
chose to take them out. I think the PBAs were suitable for them.  And there was no 
information that Mr and Mrs H didnt receive from Lloyds  that would likely have put them off 
taking them out. So I dont think Mr and Mrs H lost out as a result of anything Lloyds did or 
didnt do when they took out the PBAs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8169286