K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  about Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) for withdrawing her account 
facilities and closing her account. She wants the account to be reinstated  and compensation 
for her distress  and inconvenience. 
background
Ms A was a longstanding customer of Barclays. She had an authorised  overdraft facility with 
a limit of £1000.  
In late 2017, Ms A lost her income  and began to use more of her overdraft. 
At the beginning  of November 2017,  Barclays wrote  to her, advising that she had exceeded 
her overdraft and that she urgently needed to bring  the account back  within  the limits. 
Ms A remained over her overdraft limit and Barclays wrote again at the beginning of 
December 2017,  repeating that Ms A needed  to bring the account back within  its limit. 
Ms A appears to have contacted a debt agency  who then contacted Barclays.  Barclays  
wrote to Ms A in mid December 2017  and mid January 2018 advising that it would put fees 
and recovery action  on the account on hold for 30 days while it waited for a repayment  
proposal from Ms A. 
In mid January  2018 Barclays wrote to Ms A saying that the overdraft debt had increased. It 
gave her 7 days to bring the account in line or contact the bank, after which it would cancel 
Ms As overdraft,  debit  card and any cheque book. 
The account  remained over its limits and in late January 2018 Barclays wrote to Ms A 
advising that it had withdrawn her account facilities and cancelled her card. It warned that it 
would inform credit agencies of Ms As account  management. 
It appears that Ms A then made contact with Barclays at the beginning of February,  making 
an offer to repay  the debt.  Barclays  wrote to Ms A, acknowledging the debt and advising that 
whilst it accepted the offer to repay the debt it was not sufficient for the account facilities  to 
be reinstated. 
Shortly afterwards Barclays wrote to Ms A as she had not made her first repayment as 
offered. At this point Ms A was more  than £1120 overdrawn. 
No payments were  made into the account and in early April 2018 Barclays sent Ms A notice 
of the account  termination. This said it would  be effective  from mid April 2018. 
The account  was then closed in early  May 2018. 
Ms A tried to use her card at an ATM but it was retained. She then spoke to staff at a branch 
who referred her to the contact number to speak  with collections. 
Ms A then made a complaint to Barclays. She felt that as a loyal customer it was unfair to 
close her account in this way. 
Barclays sent Ms A its final response letter in late May 2018. It did not uphold  her complaint. 
Ref: DRN87801062Ms A was not happy with this response  and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that Barclays  had complied with its terms in closing the account and had given 
adequate notice. He therefore  thought  that Barclays had not done anything  wrong. 
Ms A did not accept  this view and so the complaint has been  passed  for an ombudsman  
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms As disappointment  and upset at finding herself in this position, but looking at 
the correspondence I agree with the adjudicators  view that Barclays  has not acted 
unreasonably. Barclays  gave adequate notice of its intention to close  the account and was 
entitled to close  the account, given that it remained  over its limits. 
Barclays terms and conditions at the time set out that it can close  an account  by giving two 
months notice, in normal circumstances, or it can end the agreement immediately if a 
customer persistent breaks  the account  terms. 
Whilst it does not appear that Ms A deliberately broke the terms of the account, and was 
experiencing difficulties at the time, by leaving the account over its limits between November 
2017 and April 2018, she did persistently break  the terms of the account. 
Barclays could have  therefore closed the account  immediately, but the correspondence 
shows that it gave  Ms A reasonable warning, through  a number of letters, of its intention  to 
cancel the facilities  of the account and to close the account. I therefore  cannot say that 
Barclays has acted wrongly  in closing the account.
Ms A has also mentioned feeling that the service  she received in branch in May 2018  fell 
short. She described the staff directing her to call a number to contact the collections team.  
Barclays has confirmed that this was the correct process as the collections team would be 
best placed to discuss  Ms As account with her. I realise the discussion would  have been  
uncomfortable and distressing for Ms A, but I cannot say that Barclays  acted  wrongly by 
giving this advice.  
For these reasons, whilst  I understand this will be disappointing to Ms A, I do not uphold 
Ms As complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Ms As complaint and do not ask 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Ref: DRN87801063Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8780106