K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the involvement of an appointed representative of bdhSterling Limited 
(the AR) in the transfer of his occupational scheme  (OPS) benefits into a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP),  and the investments associated with that transfer. His 
complaint was initially focussed  on an investment called Green Oil Plantations (GOP)  he 
made using  some of the money  transferred.  Mr B later appointed a representative, which 
made some additional points about the overall  suitability of the advice to transfer  from the 
OPS to the SIPP. The representative  says the AR should have given advice on the OPS 
transfer and the intended  investments,  and that the transfer and investments were  
unsuitable for Mr B.
background
Mr B transferred the cash  value of various existing personal pension  schemes  and his OPS 
to a SIPP in 2011, and used some of the money transferred into the SIPP to invest in two 
unregulated investments  Plantation Capital and GOP. Mr B says he was told by a 
representative of Plantation  Capital which SIPP operator would allow  its investment, but that 
he would  need  an Independent Financial  Adviser (IFA) to arrange the transfers of his 
existing pensions to the SIPP. Mr B was introduced by the representative of Plantation 
Capital to an IFA who I will call Mr L. 
At the time of the introduction Mr L worked  for a business Ill call Firm A. The process  of 
transferring Mr Bs existing pensions  to the SIPP and making  the investments began  in May 
2011 and concluded by October 2011.  Mr L moved business whilst the transfer and 
investment process  was ongoing. The FCA register records  Mr L as holding the investment 
adviser controlled function at Firm A until 26 June 2011. But Mr L was also the AR from 7 
June 2011  the FCA register records this. So there  is a period of overlap. 
Mr L has made complaints to both Firm A and bdhSterling. Im considering  each complaint 
separately, but I think the entire chain of events in the transfer and investment process is 
relevant to both complaints. So Im going to set out the full background here.  I have set out 
in my findings which business  I think  is responsible for which  of Mr Ls acts.
Mr Bs introduction  to Firm A, and the SIPP application 
Mr B was introduced to Plantation  Capital by a friend of his partner. Mr B initially  made a 
direct investment in this investment  on behalf of his mother, to support the payment of care 
fees. 
As mentioned, Mr B was told that hed need  an IFA to help him if he wanted to make  an 
investment in Plantation Capital in a SIPP, as the SIPP operator Plantation Capitals 
representative told Mr B about  would only accept  advised business. And Plantation  Capitals 
representative introduced Mr B to Mr L, at Firm A. 
Mr B says he contacted  Mr L at Firm A in early May 2011. Mr B says he had a conversation 
with Mr L on 4 May 2011 during which Mr L told him the value of his existing personal  
pensions and explained where they were invested. At this time Mr L also said hed look into 
Mr Bs OPS and get some details of that. Mr B says Mr L sent him a fact find document the 
same day. 
Ref: DRN83481532Mr B partly completed  and signed  the fact find on 5 May 2011. He completed and signed a 
SIPP application form and investment  application form the same day. So it seems  the SIPP 
and investment application forms were  sent to Mr B at the same time as the fact find, and 
they were each returned to Mr L by Mr B.  
The SIPP operator  sent an email to Mr L at Firm A on 27 May 2011  which  acknowledged  
receipt of the SIPP application form, and said this had been processed. Mr L was provided 
with a scheme number  and a dedicated  point of contact  for queries. A letter  was sent to Mr B 
by the SIPP  operator on the same day. That confirmed Firm A to be Mr Bs IFA, and said Mr 
B should contact  it, if he had any queries.  
On 6 June 2011 two amounts - £26,141.54 and £71,884.09 were paid into the SIPP  from 
Mr Bs existing  personal pensions. A financial adviser fee of £1,960.51  was paid to Firm A on 
10 June 2011.  
the further transfer in to the SIPP 
Mr B signed  a client agreement with the AR on 9 August 2011. 
On 11 August 2011 Mr L, acting for the AR, wrote to the SIPP  operator. That letter  explained 
the AR was making an application  to transfer  the cash  value of Mr Bs OPS benefits to the 
SIPP. It said a change  of agency form would follow, to change the IFA associated with the 
SIPP to the AR. That form was signed by Mr B on 23 August 2011.  
We have been  given a copy of an insistent  investor  report written by the AR, dated 25 
August 2011.  That said the AR was advising Mr B against making the transfer away from his 
OPS to the SIPP. It explained it was giving this advice because  it felt the critical yield (which  
indicated the rate at which the cash value  of the OPS would have to grow  to match the 
benefits payable  from it) of 0% which had been quoted  by the OPS administrator was 
incorrect. 
The report  described  Mr B as a sophisticated  investor, and included  the following about  
Mr Bs attitude to risk. 
As documented in your investment and retirement  questionnaire, you indicate that your 
attitude to investment risk is low to medium in respect of your of pension investments. You 
confirmed you are prepared to take reasonable levels of risk but will be careful over what  
investments are chosen. 
At the conclusion of the report is a declaration which said:
I confirm that I understand the recommendations and risk warnings in this report  dated 2nd 
September 2011 which have been  fully explained  to me. I confirm that I am being  advised 
against proceeding with a transfer.
I understand that as [the appointed representative]  believe  that the information  provided  by 
the [the OPS administrator] to be incorrect, they cannot confirm  whether it is possible for me 
to realistically meet  or outperform my existing pension. I understand that [the appointed  
representative] are therefore  recommending that I do not transfer my [OPS  pension] as they 
cannot confirm  whether  it would be in my best interest. As such  I understand why I am being 
advised against a transfer,  and can confirm that I still wish to proceed. 
Ref: DRN83481533Mr B says he did not see the insistent investor report  and was unaware of it until seeing a 
copy of it after making his complaint. bdhSterling  has not been able to demonstrate that Mr B 
signed the declaration at the end of the report.  
On 8 September 2011 the amounts  of £70,606  & £44,479 were  paid into the SIPP  by Mr Bs 
OPS. A financial adviser fee of £2,301.70 was later paid to the AR by the SIPP  operator. 
the investments 
Plantation Capital  
Plantation Capital was an investment in plots of land in Asia, on which trees  such  as Agar, 
Teak and Bamboo were to be planted. Investors received title to a plot of land, and rights to 
the return generated from the trees grown on it. 
It seems  the friend of Mr Bs partner who introduced Mr B to Plantation Capital was an agent  
for an unregulated business which promoted various  ethical  investments. 
Plantation Capital asked Mr B to sign a due diligence form when making the investment. 
That was a 19 page document which consisted  of 18 pages setting out the details of the 
investment, and a further page  containing various declarations  Mr B had to agree  to. Mr B 
signed each page of the documents, and made the declarations as requested. These said, in 
short, that Mr B had received all the information about the investment and had read and 
understood it, and that he understood the features of the investment and how he might be 
able to exit it. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr L was given any details about  this investment, or asked 
for any details. Mr Bs representative does however say the investment was approved  by 
Mr L, suggesting he was already familiar  with it when Mr B was introduced to him. 
Mr B made two investments in Plantation Capital in his SIPP,  after the transfers from the 
personal pensions  had completed. He invested  £40,000.00 on 6 June 2011 and a further 
£20,000 on 22 July 2011. Mr B made  the former  application when making  his initial  
application for the SIPP and the latter application directly  to the SIPP  operator, once the 
SIPP had been  set up. Both the investments  were  funded by the money transferred from Mr 
Bs personal  pensions. 
Green Oil Plantations (GOP)
GOP was a similar investment to Plantation Capital, in that it was based on trees  grown on 
plots to which the investor  received title. GOP was based on Millettia trees grown in 
Australia, and aimed to generate a return through the production  of biofuel.  
It appears Mr B was introduced to GOP by the same friend of his partner who introduced  him 
to Plantation Capital.  Mr B sent an email  to Mr L at Firm A about the investment on 31 May 
2011 which said:
Please find attached the information on the Australian investment about which we have just 
spoken.
Ref: DRN83481534I understand the attached  information was a company information  pack  and a promotional  
brochure, both produced  by GOP.  That information had been provided to Mr B by the friend  
of his partner. 
On 2 June 2011 Mr L, at Firm A, sent a reply to Mr B which said:
I have looked  at the information provided,  and all seems ok, if you choose to invest please 
let me know  as if you wanted me to formally advise on fund we will need  to obtain 
permission from our compliance department, however if you wanted to just instruct [the SIPP 
operator] to proceed  that is fine, and no permissions will be required.
We still havent received  any further  information on your company scheme,  they do have up 
to 3 months  to send  this through to us and that is what they are quoting  to us, we will 
continue to chase.
On 10 August 2011 Mr B sent an email to a representative of GOP.  That email  said:
Since we met at [friend of partner] I have been  pursuing my own due diligence  on your GOP  
proposal. On the face of it, the project seems  to "fly" but I do have some questions. I have  
been in touch with [friend  of partner], who is on a weeks break  in France, and he said that 
its OK for me to contact  you directly.
Firstly: Green Oil seems  to be the latest "big thing" but there have been some reports from 
various countries  of crop failures. I believe most/all of these have been Palm Oil but it does 
beg several questions pertinent to your project, regarding sustainability... Has an 
independent risk analysis been  carried out for your location? Is there an independent 
feasibility report on the land? How much professional time is dedicated to this project? Is 
there any history showing that this (Millettia) project  works over (say) 10+ years?
Secondly: While  my proposed investment income is from a "buy back"  agreement, I would 
still like some comfort  regarding  the economics of the project... What evidence  do you have 
of ongoing and future demand for the three main products. Green Oil, Animal  Feed and 
Organic Fertilizer? What is the price (say) per tonne achieved on the last harvest? What  are 
the projected prices  over (say) 1-5 years?  Is there  any history of Millettia Oil prices, as 
opposed to Palm Oil prices?
Thirdly: Essentially, I am looking for some  comfort that the project is financially, as well as 
agriculturally, sustainable over a period at least as long as my proposed investment... What 
is the internal  ownership structure of this project? Have the principals invested their own 
money into this project?  Are there any borrowings  involved and at what level? Do you have 
any P&L projections over the next 5 years?  And can you quantify the expansion plans over a 
similar period?
GOP replied to this email the same  day, offering Mr B reassurance and answering some  of 
his questions. Mr B forwarded the reply  to Mr L, at the AR, saying:
I forward this reply,  which, incidentally, I received within hours,  for your information. Looks 
kosher to me...
Ref: DRN83481535Mr B made one investment of £60,550  in GOP in his SIPP.  That investment was made on 9 
September 2011. The application form was completed on 19 August 2011. The partners  
friend was recorded  as the authorised agent on that form. This investment was partly 
funded by the money transferred from Mr Bs personal pensions and partly funded by the 
money transferred  from Mr Bs OPS. 
managed portfolio investment
Once the GOP and Plantation Capital investments had been made, Mr B invested the 
remainder of the money in the SIPP in a managed portfolio. 
Mr B made an application for a Brewin Dolphin managed portfolio on 8 September  2011, and 
an investment of £86,129.99 was made on 7 October 2011. This investment used the 
majority of the remaining  cash in the SIPP. Mr Bs representative says this investment was 
first recommended  by Mr L in May 2011,  as a low risk investment for the cash that would  be 
remaining in the SIPP, once the Plantation Capital and GOP investments had been made. 
The representative says the Brewin Dolphin portfolio investment was delayed, as it was not 
clear how much cash would be left over until the OPS transfer completed. 
The available evidence shows the AR recommended  Mr B invest  in Brewin  Dolphin portfolio, 
if he chose to proceed with the transfer from his OPS.  The insistent investor report  refers  to 
this investment being made if the OPS transfer goes ahead, and bdhSterling  accepts it was 
recommended by Mr L, acting for the AR. So it seems although it might have first been 
suggested when  Mr L was working for Firm A, its recommendation  was finalised/formalised 
by the AR. 
what does bdhSterling say? 
bdhSterling did not think the complaint should  be upheld.  It said,  in summary:  
Mr B was advised not to transfer  his OPS. That advice was detailed in the ARs  
report of 25 August 2011. 
Mr B has said he didnt receive the report,  and if he had, he would not have gone 
ahead with the transfer. It disagrees   it thinks Mr B would have gone ahead  
regardless.  
No advice was given to Mr B to invest into GOP.
Advice was given to invest into Brewin Dolphin, and this investment has performed 
well. 
our investigation
Our investigator concluded that the complaint  should be upheld. She said,  in summary:
She did not think the insistent investor report had been seen by Mr B. If it had been  
she would expect  it to have been signed by Mr B, to show  it had been read, 
understood and agreed with.
bdhSterling accepts  the AR gave advice in relation to the OPS transfer. Such advice 
could not be given without considering Mr Bs intended investments. 
Ref: DRN83481536The OPS held valuable guaranteed benefits. The starting point when considering  
transferring these types of pensions should be that a transfer is not suitable. 
Mr B was 58 years old at the time of the advice, with an indicated retirement age of
between 60-62 years old. She didnt think it was suitable for him to transfer his 
pension with guaranteed  benefits so close to retirement particularly considering some 
of the funds were  to be invested into GOP.
The AR should have told Mr B, in a suitability report, that he should leave his OPS  
where it was, and advised him against  making  the proposed investments. This advice 
should have been  given  before  any paperwork was completed.  The document  should 
have set out the risks involved in both the transfer and investment choices. She 
hadnt seen any evidence that this advice was provided to Mr B prior to the transfer 
taking place.
If the AR had given  advice in these terms she was satisfied that he would have 
listened to this advice, left his OPS where  it was.
She did not think it made any difference that a change  of agency had not been sent 
to the SIPP  operator  until 23 August 2011.  The AR clearly gave advice on the OPS  
transfer, and bdhSterling  is therefore  responsible  for it. 
bdhSterling did not accept this view.  It said, in summary: 
Mr Ls actions whilst  he was working  for Firm A should not be taken into account  in 
this complaint. 
Mr L, whilst working  for Firm A, did say to Mr B that he did not think  the GOP  
investment would perform  as had been suggested  to him, but Mr B was insistent that 
it would. 
Mr B acting  against the ARs  advice is consistent with his insistence on investing in 
GOP. 
Mr Bs assertion that he did not receive the insistent investor  report  was only made 
after he appointed  a representative  to deal with his complaint.  
The ARs correspondence refers only to the Brewin Dolphin investment  there is no 
evidence the AR gave  any advice on GOP.  
There is no basis to say Mr B would have listened to advice not to transfer. He clearly 
wanted the transfer to go ahead, so he could make his own investment decisions.  
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019.  A copy of my provisional findings  is attached  
below, and forms part of this decision.  
Ref: DRN83481537In summary,  my provisional conclusion was that the AR was responsible for the OPS 
transfer advice  given to Mr B, and that it had not met its regulatory obligations when giving 
this advice. I was satisfied Mr B would  not have proceeded with the OPS transfer, had the 
AR acted  fairly and reasonably by meeting its regulatory obligations. I therefore  considered it 
fair to ask bdhSterling  to compensate Mr B for the loss arising  from the OPS  transfer.  
Mr B accepted my provisional decision, and said he had nothing further to add. 
bdhSterling asked  for confirmation that Id taken account of all the available evidence when 
deciding that Mr B would  not have made the OPS transfer, if the AR had done what it should 
have. It also asked if the responsibilities  of the SIPP  operator had been  considered.  
The investigator replied  to bdhSterling, highlighting  the parts of my provisional decision 
which had considered the evidence it had referred to, and confirming that I had only looked 
at the actions of bdhSterling when deciding what was fair and reasonable, but had 
considered the actions  of other  parties when looking at causation. 
bdhSterling did not make  any further  submissions. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to depart  from my provisional  findings.  
Neither party has made any further  submissions for me to consider, so there  is little I can 
add to what I said when  making my provisional findings, which are copied below. To confirm,  
those findings  from part of this provisional  decision. 
In summary,  for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I remain  satisfied that:
bdhSterling is responsible for the advice  given by the AR. 
The AR gave  advice on the OPS  transfer. 
When giving that advice, the AR did not meet  it regulatory obligations  in particular  it 
failed to offer a meaningful comparison between  the benefits offered by the OPS  and 
the SIPP, failed  to take account  of all the relevant factors  when considering the 
transfer, and failed to warn Mr B of the obvious  unsuitability of the GOP investment it 
knew he intended to make.  
If the AR had met its regulatory obligations, the OPS transfer would not have gone  
ahead. 
I therefore remain of the view that it is fair and reasonable to uphold  this complaint. 
fair compensation
Ref: DRN83481538After it received my decision, bdhSterling  referred to the responsibilities of the SIPP  
operator, and asked if these had been considered. To be clear,  I accept the SIPP operator 
did have responsibilities. But here I am only looking at what  is fair and reasonable in relation 
to the acts of the AR, for which bdhSterling is responsible. And, for the reasons  given  in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied that, if the AR had done what it should have, Mr B would 
never have  transferred to the SIPP from his OPS. So I remain satisfied that it is fair to ask 
bdhSterling to compensate Mr B for the loss arising  from the OPS  transfer.  If bdhSterling 
pays the full amount of compensation due following the below calculation it can, if it wishes,  
ask Mr B to assign to it the right to pursue  any other parties involved in the transaction.
To compensate Mr B bdhSterling  Limited should,  as far as possible,  put him in the positon 
hed be in now but for the unsuitable advice.
bdhSterling Limited should undertake a redress  calculation in line with the revised  
methodology issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017. This calculation  
should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent financial 
assumptions published at the date of that decision.  In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate actuarial services 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision. 
bdhSterling Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Bs contribution  history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the employers scheme on Mr Bs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
The compensation in respect  of any loss should, if possible, be paid into Mr Bs pension.  The 
payment should  allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt  be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If payment  into a pension  isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications,  it should  
be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for future 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
For example, if Mr B wouldnt yet have  taken a tax-free cash sum from the employers  
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr B 
within 90 days of the date bdhSterling  Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my 
final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes bdhSterling  Limited to pay Mr B this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply. 
Ref: DRN83481539When carrying out its calculation bdhSterling Limited  can take into account  the current value 
of the Brewin  Dolphin  investment and any return paid from that investment to date. It should 
assume that the GOP  investment (and therefore  the part of the GOP investment that is 
linked to the OPS  transfer) has no realisable value. 
If bdhSterling Limited pays the full amount of compensation to Mr B, it can ask him to 
undertake to pay a portion of any future returns paid by GOP to it. That portion should  be 
equal to the amount of the GOP investment  that was funded by the OPS transfer. 
future SIPP  fees
Although the GOP investment may have no realisable value, it is possible that Mr B may still 
have to pay fees for holding it in his SIPP. And it is unlikely he will be able to remove the 
investment from his SIPP. 
Had the OPS transfer not gone  ahead, Mr B would  not have made the GOP investment, to 
the extent that it is linked to the OPS  transfer.  So if Mr B does have to pay ongoing fees in 
relation to the investment,  bdhSterling Limited should pay Mr B an amount equal to the 
portion of the fees that would be payable over the next five years,  in relation to the GOP 
investment. This should reflect the portion of the GOP investment that was funded by the 
OPS transfer. I think five years should  be sufficient time for things to work themselves out 
with the investment, so Mr B can remove it from his SIPP or sell it. This money  should  be 
paid into Mr Bs pension,  if possible. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that bdhSterling 
Limited pays the balance.
my final decision
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  bdhSterling  Limited should pay the amount produced  by that 
calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including distress and/or inconvenience but 
excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that bdhSterling  Limited  pays Mr B the balance  plus any interest on 
the balance as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN834815310Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When doing so, I have taken into account  relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  appropriate) 
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the time.  
relevant considerations
The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for Businesses, which  are high-level rules  made by 
the FCA as a general  statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the [FCAs] regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G  in the FCA Handbook). These include Principle 6, which  requires a firm to pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.  
I also think  that the Conduct of Business rules and guidance in place at the time are relevant here. 
COBS 9 applies to a firm which makes a personal recommendation in relation to a designated 
investment. 
COBS 9.2.1R says:
(1) A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure  that a personal recommendation, or a decision to 
trade, is suitable for its client.
(2)When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the clients:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment  field relevant to the specific type of designated 
investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable  the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision,  which is suitable for him.
COBS 19.2.2R says: 
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary  for the firm to understand the 
essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving due consideration  to the 
nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific  transaction to be recommended, or entered  
into in the course of managing:
(a) meets  his investment  objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related  investment  risks consistent  with his 
investment objectives; and
(c) is such  that he has the necessary experience  and knowledge  in order to understand the risks 
involved in the transaction or in the management  of his portfolio.
The guidance at COBS 19.1.6  said:
When advising a retail  client  who is, or is eligible  to be, a member of a defined benefits  occupational 
pension scheme whether  to transfer  or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming  that a transfer or opt-
out will not be suitable. 
COBS 19.1.2R said that when giving advice  on a pension  transfer a firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits  likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under  a defined benefits 
pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal  pension scheme or stakeholder pension 
scheme , before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits  pension scheme;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make an 
informed decision;
Ref: DRN834815311(3) give the client  a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention  to the factors that do and do 
not support the firms  advice, no later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable  steps  to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and its advice.
The FSA issued an alert in 2013, entitled Advising  on pension transfers with a view to investing 
pension monies into unregulated products  through a SIPP.  The alert reminded advisers of their 
existing obligations under  COBS, and included the following: 
It has been  brought  to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice  to customers 
on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages  and disadvantages  of 
investments proposed to be held within  the new pension.  In particular, we have seen financial 
advisers moving customers retirement savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments (some  which may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes). Examples  of these  unregulated investments are 
diamonds, overseas  property developments, store pods, forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
Financial advisers using  this advice model  are under the mistaken impression that this process  
means they do not have to consider the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the 
SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.  
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally  requires consideration of the other 
investments held by the customer  or, when  advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for 
investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of 
the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected  underlying investments  in unregulated 
schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer  seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing  a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must  
take account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer 
out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas property investment 
under a SIPP,  then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form part of the advice 
about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If, taking into account the individual 
circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, including  its underlying  holdings, is more 
suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is not suitable.
With these  things in mind, to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I have 
considered:
what bdhSterling  did;
what it, acting fairly and reasonably, ought  to have done;
and the impact of this on Mr B. 
what did bdhSterling do?
It is not disputed that bdhSterling is responsible for any advice given  by the AR. It is also not disputed 
that the AR acted as Mr Bs adviser in relation to the OPS transfer to the SIPP.  The SIPP operator 
told the AR that it accepted the application on the assumption you have given the client relevant 
advice on the movement  of funds. 
What is disputed  is what advice was delivered by the AR. bdhSterling says the AR advised Mr B not 
to make the transfer, and that he decided not to heed this advice, and transfer regardless. It has 
provided a copy of the insistent client report in support  of this. Mr B says he did not see the insistent 
client report, and was encouraged to proceed with the transfer by the AR. 
I think,  whichever  recollection on these matters is accurate, bdhSterling did not do what it should  
have, acting fairly and reasonably. 
Ref: DRN834815312what, acting  fairly and reasonably, should bdhSterling have done? 
I am satisfied  that the AR was aware that Mr B had been  introduced  to unregulated esoteric 
investments  Plantation Capital and GOP - by an unregulated individual. And before the OPS 
transfer completed the AR had seen details of the GOP investment and knew of Mr Bs intention  to 
invest in it using some of the money transferred from his OPS. It was also aware that an unregulated 
individual had told Mr B about using  pension money to make the investment, and which SIPP  
operator he should use. 
So the circumstances  in which Mr B presented  to the AR showed a clear  risk of consumer detriment.  
He had been  persuaded  by unregulated individuals to consider investing  a significant  portion  of his 
retirement provision in unregulated esoteric investments.
In these circumstances, I think  the AR should  have  given  particularly careful consideration  to its 
regulatory obligations. As set out above, the AR, as bdhSterlings representative, had a number of 
obligations, set by the Conduct of Business (COBS) rules. The AR was required to know its customer, 
to give suitable advice and to ensure Mr B had a full understanding of the risks involved  in the 
transfer, and the benefits  he was giving up. The AR, as bdhSterlings representative, also had 
overarching obligations,  set by the Principles  for Businesses.  It was required  to treat its customers  
fairly, and to act in its customers  best interests. Having considered the available evidence I dont 
think it did all of those things. And I think, in the circumstances,  it would  have been fair and 
reasonable for it to have  done so.
One of the drivers behind Mr Bs desire to transfer his OPS to the SIPP was his wish to make the 
investment in GOP. The AR knew this. In these circumstances, I dont  think the OPS transfer advice 
can be separated from the GOP investment   the ARs  advice should have encompassed both. That 
is consistent with what the FSA said in the alert which Ive quoted above. And that alert was a 
reminder of existing  obligations under  the rules which were in place when Mr Bs transfer to the SIPP 
took place  it was not an introduction of something new.
The AR therefore had to consider the overall transaction, and to give advice in the light of that. So 
when giving advice on the transfer from the OPS to the SIPP it had to give advice on the investments 
linked to that transfer  too. In the event, the AR gave advice  on the Brewin Dolphin  investment but 
does not appear to have said anything  about  the suitability of GOP. 
Being silent  on the suitability of GOP was not the fair and reasonable thing to do. Keeping in mind 
what I have said about its regulatory obligations, the AR could not ignore  the suitability  of an 
investment for which a transfer  to a SIPP was being made to facilitate. And I think here it would  have 
been obvious  to the AR that the GOP investment was unsuitable for Mr B. GOP was a high risk 
investment. It was unregulated and esoteric  it sought  to generate  high returns  by growing  trees  in 
overseas territories. It was possible that Mr B might  lose all of his money by making the investment. I 
think such an investment would only be suitable for a very small part of the portfolio of a sophisticated 
investor. It certainly wasnt suitable for a significant part of Mr Bs total pension provision. So the ARs  
silence overlooked,  or ignored,  obvious unsuitability.  I do not think  that was fair and reasonable. 
In support of its decision  not to uphold Mr Bs complaint bdhSterling puts a lot of emphasis on the 
insistent client report. Mr B says he does not recall seeing the insistent client report. But, even if it was 
sent and seen  by Mr B, there  are a number  of issues with this report: 
It makes no reference to the obvious unsuitability of the GOP  investment the AR knew Mr B 
intended to make using some of the money  transferred. It should have explained this 
investment was unsuitable for Mr B, and why. 
If it was sent,  it was sent after the transfer had already proceeded. So Mr B had no 
opportunity to consider what it said and decide what he wanted to do. 
Ref: DRN834815313It falls a long way short  of meeting the requirements of COBS 19.1.2R.  It doesnt provide a 
comparison between  the benefits Mr B would receive  from the OPS and the ones he might 
receive from the SIPP. So it doesnt  allow Mr B to fully understand  what he is giving up. 
The report  doesnt  contain all the information Mr B needed to be aware  of, in order to make a 
decision. It simply says that the AR does not think the information  which has been provided 
by the OPS  trustee is accurate  it only says that a likely  error in the quoted critical yield is the 
reason for the OPS transfer being unsuitable. There is no reference to, for example,  the fact 
Mr B was being offered  a significantly reduced transfer value,  due to the scheme  being 
underfunded, and effort to inform Mr B of the protection provided to occupational  pension 
schemes by the Pension Protection Fund. 
No consideration is given to the fact Mr B is very close to retirement. Mr B was 58 years old at 
the time of the advice, with an indicated retirement age of between 60-62 years old. That was 
a key consideration to his decision on whether or not to transfer  from the OPS. 
The AR could not treat Mr B as an insistent client unless he had a full understanding of why his 
intended action was unsuitable. The AR did not only need to say it thought  the transfer was unsuitable 
 it had to offer a full explanation  of why this was the case. It was the ARs responsibility,  acting fairly 
and reasonably, to ensure Mr B was made aware of all of the things listed above and had considered  
them. And it was the ARs responsibility to ensure Mr B had read and understood everything before 
he chose to proceed.  So it should have issued a report which met all its obligations,  ensured Mr B had 
read and understood it, and obtained confirmation of this, before  it allowed  the transfer to proceed.  
I am satisfied  that the AR could  have  done this. It had a significant amount of detail about  
Mr Bs OPS,  and knew  the details of GOP, so could have clearly explained why this was unsuitable 
for Mr B. And the fact the OPS trustee  had provided what appeared to be an incorrect critical yield 
does not mean it was fair and reasonable  for the AR to simply say it was up to Mr B to decide if he 
wanted to proceed. It could  still have covered off all the other points Ive mentioned, and it could have 
asked for an illustration of benefits payable  if he were  to take them  at that time or at his intended  
retirement age and made a reasonable estimation of the cost of buying  those benefits, given the 
proximity to Mr Bs intended  retirement  date. Or it could  have taken up the matter of the critical yield 
with the OPS trustee. 
whats the impact of this?
I appreciate that if the AR had done what it ought to have,  acting fairly and reasonably, it doesnt 
automatically follow that Mr B would now be in a different position. He may have chosen to ignore the 
ARs advice and proceed insistently, or he may have looked at alternative ways of transferring  to a 
SIPP to make  the investments. 
Having carefully considered things, I am persuaded that Mr B would not have  proceeded with the 
OPS transfer, had the AR acted fairly and reasonably by meeting its obligations. 
I acknowledge that Mr B had been introduced to the GOP  investment by a friend  of his partner. I 
acknowledge, too, that hed decided  to invest in GOP  before approaching the AR. But it is also clear  
that he was relying on advice from the AR. He forwarded details of his interactions with 
representatives of GOP to the AR. And Mr B may have taken the ARs silence  on the suitability of this 
investment as approval of his intended actions. I think, certainly, he would have  taken confidence  
from a regulated adviser being privy to the assurances hed received from the representative  of GOP. 
Ref: DRN834815314I think  a balanced explanation from the AR of the true risks associated with the GOP investment 
would have burst Mr Bs bubble, so to speak. His only source of information otherwise was 
unregulated individuals who had a vested interest in persuading Mr B to invest. The AR should have 
explained that unregulated  esoteric investments with limited track  records,  based in foreign 
jurisdictions, can result  in a total capital loss  this was a real possibility. It should also have  explained 
that there were  no guarantees that the predicted returns would transpire. And it should have warned 
Mr B of the potential consequences  of the lack of regulatory protection. I think it more  likely  than not 
that such advice would have  put Mr B off transferring his OPS to partly fund his intended  investment 
in GOP.  
I am also satisfied that if Mr B had been given  a full explanation of the benefits he was giving up by 
making the OPS  transfer, the return that would  be required to replicate these  benefits,  and of the 
protection afforded to occupational pension  schemes he would have been  unlikely to proceed to 
transfer his OPS insistently. I think it more likely  than not Mr B would  have heeded the warnings and 
advice, and left his OPS  pension where it was  particularly so given that I think  hed likely have been 
put off making the GOP  investment had the AR done what  it should have. 
So I think it is fair to say bdhSterling is responsible for the loss which  arose  from the OPS transfer. 
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8348153