K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains National Westminster Bank  Plc treated him badly when he wanted to 
transfer a large  sum of money for a house purchase.
background
Mr S wanted  to make arrangements  to make sure NatWest transferred his funds in good  
time for completion on a house  purchase on 26 November 2018. He went  into his local 
branch two weeks before and he says the branch told him to just come in on the day. It didnt 
tell him about  any identification needed. He decided  to go in on 21 November 2018 and the 
branch asked him for two forms  of identification. It said the manager wasnt in so it asked  
him to go back.  He returned in the morning of the following day (22 November) and was 
taken into a room  and asked about the source  of the funds. He was left for about an hour 
while the branch  made enquiries.  It then asked him for full details despite the fact that some 
of the accounts  went back  15 years. He went back in the afternoon with more information  
and again was left for about  an hour. He said the branch wasnt interested in his deadline 
and said itd been in touch  with its money  laundering department and could not sanction the 
transfer. And it wanted more documents which he emailed that evening.  He was working 
away the following  day and so went to another branch  but that couldnt help him. He decided 
he needed to cancel his meetings and travel  back to his local branch. His father came back 
early from a holiday and went in with him as he had provided some of the funds.  Eventually  
the manager said the transfer could be authorised and NatWest waived the fee. 
Mr S complained about his treatment and has raised a number of issues  which Ive 
summarised as follows:
He says he was not given  any respect  and was made to feel like a criminal. He was 
treated aggressively  despite being open and a long term account  holder. And NatWests  
customer service  was non existent. His deadline was irrelevant and insignificant to the 
manager.
No-one told him beforehand that he would need  to bring any documents or what  those 
should be. And it doesnt give any information  on its website. The paperwork NatWest  
wanted was not definitive and changed regularly.
He was tipped  off for money laundering.
NatWest said its staff had a duty to ensure due diligence is met before sending any 
payment.  So it wasnt unusual for staff to undertake  enhanced checks  particularly  given the 
large amount involved. It said Mr S had first visited the branch on 21 November 2018  and 
the funds were sent on 23 November so it couldnt  see any excessive delay. But it denied 
tipping him off about money laundering suspicions. It apologised if Mr S felt he wasnt  
treated with respect but said there wasnt any evidence  that its staff were aggressive or 
unprofessional. It paid him £250  for any failings in its customer  service.
Our investigator thought that £250 compensation was a fair and reasonable amount to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Ref: DRN86386342But Mr S didnt agree. He said hed never  disputed  that banks have to do security checks. 
But hes concerned that the banks processes and procedures were  not clear  and that he 
wasnt given any information right at the beginning about those procedures. The 
requirements appeared to be changing and left him frustrated and distressed. He wants  
assurances that NatWest  has proper procedures that are clear, visible and consistent 
across their businesses  so that other customers dont have to go through  the same 
experience. Hes also concerned that he was discriminated against because of his age and 
gave a number  of examples which he said would not have been experienced by a second 
time buyer or an older buyer. Hes pleased the bank  has admitted it gave him a poor service 
but does not accept £250 is sufficient compensation for the inconvenience,  disruption and 
distress he experienced.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate the frustration Mr S felt about being  asked for various documents and 
information about the origin of the funds he wanted  to transfer particularly in light of the large  
amount involved.  But NatWest has a legal and regulatory duty to ask those questions and to 
ask for any paperwork necessary. Its clear from Mr Ss response  to our investigator that he 
accepts NatWest had to do security checks. He is more concerned  about  the lack of 
information about what might be needed  when arranging such a transfer. That wasnt given 
to him at the time. And he wants a reassurance that its now providing transparent  
information so that other customers dont go through what  he had to. And he wants an 
assurance that NatWests  policies  and procedures treat first time buyers and young people 
the same  as every one else. 
But thats not something this Service can ask NatWest to do. Our role is limited. We try to 
sort out individual  complaints between consumers and financial institutions where the 
consumer thinks he or she has lost out. We cant comment on processes which  apply to all 
its customers. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority.  And we cant  comment on 
Mr Ss concern that he was tipped off for money laundering. But we can look at Mr Ss 
experience with those  processes and see if anything has gone  wrong  that has caused  him to 
lose out.
 
Mr S is upset  by the attitude of the staff in the local branch, and the lack of customer service. 
He says the staff were  abrupt  suggesting that someone of his age wouldnt have had that 
amount of money  saved. He says they asked numerous questions about the source of funds 
but when his father attended the last visit the tone changed. Ive considered all the 
examples Mr S has given  us but I cant see that NatWest  treated  him any differently because  
of his age. It needed to carry  out security checks on the source  of his funds. And his father 
was able to verify the source  of some of the money.  So it seems  to me that it was as a result 
of that verification and not his fathers age that allowed the transfer to proceed.
Mr S had to go into his local branch on four occasions which caused disruption to his work 
schedule, he had to work  late into the evenings to catch up, he had to cancel meetings, and 
had to take numerous phone calls from his solicitor. He said it left him in a terrible state on 
the Thursday  evening as he didnt know if his money  would go through  to allow  him to 
complete his house purchase. So for those reasons he says the £250  is not enough 
compensation.
Ref: DRN86386343In NatWests final response letter dated  17 December 2018 it apologised that he was made  
to feel like a criminal and treated without any respect. And it was disappointed the branch 
didnt seem to acknowledge his important deadline.  It paid him £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience. 
I can understand how stressful this was for Mr S but I need to balance that with the fact that 
the transfer eventually went through to allow  him to make his deadline So looking at all of the 
circumstances, and I know  Mr S wont agree with me, but I think  £250  is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the trouble and distress  hes suffered.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8638634