K822xcomplaint
Mrs T has complained that Calpe  Insurance Company Limited  unfairly settled a claim from 
another driver  against her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
background 
Mrs T was in an accident. She rang her broker to report it. Her broker  told Calpe that Mrs T 
had been involved  in an accident  but didn't give it further details of the incident.  Calpe tried 
several times to contact  Mrs T but it didn't receive a response. So it told Mrs T it would 
cancel her policy within seven days as she hadn't co-operated with it. At that point, with the 
help of a friend, Mrs T contacted Calpe. She explained that English  wasnt  her first language 
and she hadn't understood what Calpe  was asking her for. Mrs T returned  the information  
Calpe had asked  for and disputed liability for the claim. Calpe said that it didn't think it could  
defend the claim  so it settled it for around £5,316 and asked Mrs T to pay her excess. 
Mrs T didn't think that was fair and brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional 
decision on 17 March 2020.  For ease I've copied  my provisional findings  below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it.
I agree  with our adjudicator that Calpe acted too quickly to accept  100% liability  in this case. 
And I note Calpe have  accepted that so I don't intend to deal with that point in further detail 
here. 
Calpe has also accepted that if it had disputed liability its most likely that the outcome would 
have been a 50/50 split. And as there  were  no witnesses or CCTV and both drivers gave 
different versions  of events blaming each other for the accident,  that approach seems 
reasonable.
What remains in dispute is whether or not Mrs T is required to pay her full excess of £1,500. 
Mrs Ts policy is whats known as an all sections excess policy. That means shes  required 
to pay her excess even if she doesn't make a claim  for damage  to her own car. So, for any 
claim against her policy, including a claim from a third party,  Mrs T has to pay an excess of 
up to £1,500. In this case, Calpe settled the claim for around £5,316.  If the liability  had been 
split Calpe could  have reduced  its costs  by half and paid out £2,658. But as that amount is 
more than Mrs Ts excess she would still be required to pay the full £1,500.
Our adjudicator said that if Calpe had settled  the claim  on a 50/50  basis then Mrs T could 
have claimed half her excess back.  Where liability is split then its common for each  party to 
claim half their costs  including  their excess from the other drivers insurer. But its notable  
that in this case Mrs T hasnt made a claim at all. She hasn't asked Calpe or the other  
drivers insurer  to cover  the costs of repairs to her car, which she paid for privately. So as 
Mrs T hasn't made a claim Calpe can't try and recover half of Mrs Ts costs. Also a claim for 
her excess  isn't something  the policy covers. Its whats known as an uninsured  loss. That is 
its not covered  by insurance but can be claimed for in the same  was as other uninsured 
losses, for example  personal injury or loss of earnings. So Mrs Ts excess isn't something 
that Calpe  would be required to claim from the other  insurer.  That means that even if the 
Ref: DRN83595762other insurer had agreed to settle  the claim on a 50/50 basis  Mrs T would have still had to 
pay her full £1,500  excess.
Our adjudicator said that Mrs T could no longer claim for her excess  because Calpe had 
settled the claim. But I don't think thats  right. Calpe settled the claim on whats known as a 
without prejudice  basis. That means it hasn't accepted liability.  So Mrs T is still free to claim 
for her losses, including her excess,  from the other  driver and his insurer if she so wishes.  
And as her excess is something that she would always have had to pay, regardless of the 
decision on liability, I think its reasonable that Calpe  has asked Mrs T to pay that in full. But 
if Mrs T has receipts  for the repairs she paid for her own car she may want to claim for those 
and Calpe might  consider  offsetting those costs  against the excess Mrs T owes. 
That said,  as I've said above, I do think that Calpe acted too quickly in settling the other  
drivers claim  in full. And its clear that the conduct  of this claim has been a source of distress 
and inconvenience  to Mrs T. So I think Calpe should pay her £150 compensation to address 
that.
Both Calpe and Mrs T accepted my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to party  uphold  
it. 
As both Mrs T and Calpe accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to change  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Calpe Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mrs T £150  compensation for her distress and inconvenience. It 
should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mrs T has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
1 If Calpe pays  interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken  off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN83595763Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8359576