K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP (ASG) has failed to keep  to the 
terms of an agreement to install  and maintain central heating equipment at their property.
Background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
Both parties  to the complaint replied to the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M said they 
were happy  with the provisional decision and reiterated their dissatisfaction with ASG.  They  
also said theyd discovered ASG had registered  a charge against their property on the 
Land Registry and were  unhappy about this.
ASG said it disagreed with the provisional decision. Its reply could be summarised as 
follows:
Power-flushing wasnt  always an appropriate way to clean a system. There  was no 
guarantee a power-flush on installation would  have removed all debris from the 
system. In fact, information from a trade association suggested  power-flushing would 
almost never eliminate all debris from a heating system.
It was Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility  to maintain their existing pipework, and this was 
made clear in their agreement. Had they maintained their pipework  there would have 
been no debris present to cause problems  with the boiler. Mr and Mrs M hadnt  
provided evidence  to show they had carried out any maintenance on their pipework.
The system  had been  flushed to the relevant  British Standard  and in accordance  with 
the manufacturers instructions. 
Filters help with debris and do not create  it. If Mr and Mrs M had been correctly 
maintaining their system there  would  be no debris to enter the filter.
The case  has now been returned to me. Before beginning this decision I asked ASG  to 
comment on my finding that it was responsible  for maintaining the magnetic filter.  It said I 
should refer to section 7.3 of the agreement,  and noted  that the filter had a one year 
warranty.
My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, based on its response, I dont  think ASG  has fully appreciated the reasons for 
my provisional decision. It also appears to have misunderstood the terms of its agreement  
with Mr and Mrs M.
the relevance of section  7.3, and ASGs  responsibilities regarding the filter
Section 7.3 of the agreement, which ASG directed me to, states the following:
Ref: DRN84736572Other than the Equipment, any items  (a programmable room thermostat, thermostatic 
radiator valves and any additional pipework installed by the Company) installed at the 
Property by the Company shall benefit  from a one year warranty.
I explained in my provisional decision  that the magnetic filter formed  a part of the Equipment 
as defined in the agreement. This means  section 7.3, which appears to be intended  to limit 
ASGs responsibility for certain installed items to a period of one year,  does not apply to the 
magnetic filter and it is therefore ASGs responsibility to maintain under  the agreement  (for 
the entire duration). As I mentioned in my provisional decision, the filter manufacturer  said it 
should be cleaned  annually and it remains my view that ASG should have been  inspecting  
and cleaning  the filter at each service if its effectiveness  was impaired or would likely be 
impaired by the next service.
Power-flushing
In my provisional decision I didnt say that ASGs failure to carry out a power-flush was the 
cause of the heat exchanger becoming  blocked. I also dont disagree  that a power-flush may 
not always remove all debris  from a system  as it appears there are several variables 
involved which can impact how effective it is, such as the skill of the person carrying  it out. 
However, I did say that not carrying out a power-flush  could have contributed  to the debris 
problems that Mr and Mrs M experienced later on.
ASG has quoted from a trade associations website to support its position  on power-flushing, 
but I note the same  trade  association  also recommends  a power-flush is carried out on a 
newly-installed central  heating  system,  and states  chemical flushing  doesnt work. Overall, 
I find the evidence  from the trade associations website tends to support a conclusion  that 
ASG should have carried out a power-flush when it installed Mr and Mrs Ms boiler, and that 
a power-flush would  have  been more effective  than the kind of flush  ASG actually carried  
out.
Mr and Mrs Ms existing  pipework and its condition
Whilst I agree Mr and Mrs M are responsible under the agreement for the maintenance of 
the pipework and radiators, I dont think  its likely the debris  build-up  which  caused the heat-
exchanger to become blocked  was caused by their failure to do so. 
Ref: DRN84736573I dont think its reasonable of ASG to say that because the debris  came  from 
Mr and Mrs Ms system,  this means that they have failed to maintain it properly or that ASG 
can avoid its maintenance responsibilities regarding the boiler and filter. It seems that debris 
will always  build up over time in a heating system and, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, I thought ASGs  failure to clean  the magnetic filter (leading to it becoming unable to 
filter debris  out of the water) was likely to be one of the main  contributing  factors to debris 
blocking the boiler. I also thought it was possible the use of a less thorough type of flush may 
have contributed to the problem, and my view on that has now been reinforced by the 
opinions expressed  by the trade association referred  to by ASG.  
Certainly, it seems the balance of evidence is in favour of Mr and Mrs M here, as the only 
evidence that the debris  build-up was caused  by them  is an assertion by ASG  that they have 
failed to maintain  their pipework and radiators. On the other hand, ASG  carried  out a less 
thorough kind of flush on installation than promised  in the agreement,  and has failed to 
inspect and clean  the filter during the annual services. Having carefully weighed up the 
evidence, I remain of the view that its more likely that failures by ASG  in meeting its 
obligations under  the agreement with Mr and Mrs M have led to the problems with the boiler, 
and the costs that Mr and Mrs M have incurred as a result.
Customer service
Neither party to the complaint has commented on the findings  in my provisional decision that 
ASGs customer service  had been  generally  poor,  so it follows that my views on this aspect 
of the complaint remain the same.
Putting things  right
To put things right, I direct  ASG to take the following actions:
Refund the call-out charge of £120  which it added to Mr and Mrs Ms direct debit. 8% 
simple yearly interest* should be added to this refund, calculated from the date the 
direct debit  was taken, to the date the refund  is given.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs M the £540 they paid to have the system  power-flushed,  
along with 8% simple  yearly interest* calculated from the date Mr and Mrs M paid for 
the power-flush, to the date the amount  is reimbursed to them.
Inspect and clean  the magnetic filter at the 2019 and all subsequent annual  services 
remaining under  the agreement. If the 2019  service has already been  carried  out 
then ASG must either  return within four weeks of a final decision  being accepted,  to 
inspect and clean  the filter, or cover  the cost to Mr and Mrs M of having another 
heating engineer carry out this work.
Pay Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation  to reflect the frustration and annoyance 
caused by its failure to meet its responsibilities under the agreement,  and the poor 
level of customer service its provided to Mr and Mrs M. ASG  must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs M accepts a 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation 
from the date of a final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN84736574*If ASG considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
this interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, and in my attached provisional decision, I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and direct A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP to take the actions set 
out in the Putting things right section of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN84736575COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  A Shade  Greener  (Boilers)  LLP (ASG)  has failed to keep to the terms of an 
agreement to install and maintain central heating equipment at their property.
background
Mr and Mrs M entered a regulated  conditional  sale agreement with ASG in August 2014 to install a 
boiler (and associated equipment) at their home and keep  this maintained  and serviced for a period of 
14 years. 
The price of the boiler and equipment on the agreement was £3,998.37,  and the maintenance and 
servicing was £4,722.48. Mr and Mrs M were required to make monthly  repayments which increased 
by 3% per year from the third anniversary  of installation.
The boiler  was installed  and commissioned on 28 August 2014. For some years after that, the 
relationship with ASG  was relatively uneventful. In February 2018 Mr M reported his shower and bath 
taps were not heating up. ASG said they could  send  someone  to investigate, but would  charge  if the 
issue was caused  by the shower and taps, or by debris  in the heating system. Mr and Mrs M called 
out an independent engineer,  who reported the boilers  heat exchanger was getting  blocked. They 
contacted ASG  about  this and were  told the problem  must be debris in the system and it needed  a 
power-flush, but it appears no further action  took place  at the time. Mr and Mrs M say they continued  
to experience intermittent problems with their hot water in the following  months.
In August 2018 ASG  sent an engineer  to carry out what was described in the agreement as an annual 
service. A month later Mr M called ASG to report the boiler was delivering hot water  inconsistently, 
and asked for an engineer to visit. A few days later someone  attended from the boilers manufacturer. 
They reported  the heat exchanger  and magnetic  filter were completely blocked by debris and the 
expansion vessel was flat, and they said Mr and Mrs M may be charged by ASG  for the visit. I 
understand the blocked  parts  were  cleaned at this point.
Mr M then complained to ASG. He said the system should have been power-flushed  at the time of 
installation and the engineer  should have cleaned the magnetic filter during the annual service, but he 
didnt think these things  could have been done.  ASG  didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried  
out a manual flush at the time of installation,  and it had no obligation  to clean the magnetic  filter as 
part of the annual service.  ASG added that its engineer had re-pressurised the expansion vessel 
during the service, and that any build-up of debris in the boiler had been caused by Mr and Mrs Ms 
failure to look after parts of their heating system which  fell outside of ASGs responsibility to maintain.
Mr and Mrs M then brought  their complaint  to this service. One of our investigators looked  into the 
matter. He came to the following conclusions:
ASG was supposed  to carry out a power-flush when it installed the boiler, but it had carried 
out a different  kind of flush. This hadnt been  to Mr and Mrs Ms disadvantage  because  the 
different types of flush achieve the same result and it seemed unlikely the problems in 2018 
related to a different  kind of flush  being  carried  out four years previously.
ASG had probably re-pressurised the expansion vessel during the 2018 service even though 
it was found to be flat a few weeks  later. A photo provided by ASG to show that this had been 
done was not very convincing, but ultimately even if it hadnt been done at the time, it was re-
pressurised free of charge when it was found to be flat.
ASG should have  cleaned the magnetic filter and heat exchanger as part of its annual  
service, but had failed to do so. This meant Mr and Mrs M had to pay to get these  cleaned,  
and this hadnt been  fair. 
Ref: DRN84736576Our investigator recommended ASG reimburse  Mr and Mrs M the £120  theyd paid for the call-out  
during which the boiler was repaired, and pay them £100 compensation
Mr and Mrs M said they partially agreed with the investigator, but they noted  they had recently  had to 
pay £540 to have the system  power-flushed  themselves.  They said they wouldnt  have had to get this 
done if ASG had fulfilled their obligations, so they wanted this to be reimbursed as well.
ASG didnt  accept the investigators  conclusions.  It reiterated its position  that it was not responsible 
for cleaning  the magnetic  filter,  and the annual service did not include  this kind of work.
As no agreement could  be reached, the case has been  passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of different issues in this case, but in the end they can be summarised under two 
broad headings. Firstly,  did ASG fail to meet its obligations to Mr and Mrs M in supplying, installing  
and maintaining the boiler and equipment? Secondly, did any failings on ASGs part cause Mr and 
Mrs M to lose out financially or in some other way?
what were  ASGs relevant  obligations to Mr and Mrs M?
Mr and Mrs Ms agreement with ASG  can be divided into two parts   the supply and installation of the 
Equipment, and the maintenance of said items for the duration  of the agreement. Ill deal with these  
in turn.
In summary, ASGs relevant  obligations under  the supply and installation part of the agreement  were  
to:
Install the Equipment  in a careful and considered way, following best working  practices.
Carry out a gas safety test and power-flush  of the existing heating system  and radiators, 
advising of any leaks.
Install a programmable  room thermostat  and thermostatic  radiator valves where required.
Dispose of the old boiler.
The Equipment was described in the agreement  as a Grade A condensing  central heating boiler 
and any ancillary equipment  required for the optimum performance of the boiler including but not 
limited to a magnetic and limescale filter, but expressly  excluding a programmable  room thermostat, 
thermostatic radiator valves  and any additional pipework installed by the Company.
In summary, ASGs relevant  obligations under  the maintenance  part of the agreement were  to:
Keep the Equipment in good repair, condition and working order.
Provide an annual service free of charge to check the effectiveness  of the Equipment.
Furnish any and all parts, mechanisms and devices  which are required to keep the Equipment 
in good order.
In summary, Mr and Mrs M had some obligations placed on them  by this part of the agreement as 
well:
Exercise reasonable  care in looking after the Equipment and notify ASG  of any damage.
Not allow any third party  to make repairs  or modifications without written permission from 
ASG. 
Not to carry out any maintenance  of the Equipment,  or remove or replace it.
Ref: DRN84736577I think  its also worth  me mentioning  that the relevant law at the time Mr and Mrs M contracted with 
ASG implied a term into their agreement that ASG  would  carry out services with reasonable care and 
skill.
did ASG  fail to meet any of its obligations under the supply and installation part of the agreement?
It appears to be accepted  by all parties to the complaint that ASG  did not carry  out a power-flush 
when the boiler was installed. ASG has said it carried out a different kind of flush  which would have 
given the same  results, but nevertheless it didnt  do what it said it would do in the agreement, which  
specifies a power-flush.
A power-flush is a procedure for cleaning  the existing pipework and radiators in a heating  system. 
Over time, rust, limescale and other debris can build  up in the system, and a power-flush is intended  
to remove these. Other  types  of flush are designed  to achieve the same end, but from the evidence I 
have seen it appears  a power-flush is considered to be the most  thorough method  which doesnt 
involve physical removal of the radiators.
Our investigator concluded Mr and Mrs M didnt lose out because of ASGs failure to carry  out a 
power-flush. After all, when the heat exchanger  became blocked by debris this was more than three 
years after installation,  so it could be that there was no link between  the failure to carry out the power-
flush and the large amount  of debris later discovered  in the system.
I mostly agree  with the conclusions reached by the investigator. While I dont  think  it was acceptable  
for ASG to carry  out a less thorough type of flush than it had agreed to do, theres not enough  
evidence to show that this was the primary  cause of the debris problems  some years later, although I 
think its possible this could have contributed. I think  theres a more likely primary cause of the debris 
problems which Ill explain later. 
I also note the installation, including power-flush, seems to have been free of charge on the 
agreement. So even though the kind of flush carried  out by ASG appears to have been cheaper than 
a power-flush, I cant conclude  this means Mr and Mrs M have paid more than they should have.
did ASG  fail to meet any of its obligations under the maintenance part of the agreement?
the magnetic filter
When Mr and Mrs M had problems with the boiler, the magnetic  filter was found  to be completely full. 
Magnetic filters are typically fitted  on the return pipe to a boiler and are designed to capture debris 
which may be in the system, preventing it from entering the boiler. This is the same kind of debris that 
blocked the heat exchanger.
Like any filter, a magnetic filter can become blocked by the substances it is designed to trap, meaning  
it can no longer  work effectively. Regular maintenance of the filter by removing  the trapped debris 
should prevent this from occurring,  and the manufacturer of the filter on Mr and Mrs Ms system  says 
its filters should be cleaned annually.
It seems likely to me that the blockage in Mr and Mrs Ms boiler was caused by the magnetic  filter no 
longer working properly  due to it becoming full, causing the heating system  to become contaminated 
with debris. This debris then entered the boiler  and blocked the heat exchanger. This cant  be 
determined conclusively, but on balance it does appear to be the most likely  scenario.  
Mr and Mrs M say it was ASGs responsibility to clean the filter. I agree with them.  The filter is listed 
as part of the Equipment on the agreement, which means ASG was responsible for it. Indeed, the 
fact the filter was part of the Equipment meant Mr and Mrs M were forbidden from carrying  out 
maintenance on it. So even  if the agreement didnt explicitly say the filter was ASGs  responsibility to 
Ref: DRN84736578maintain then the logical conclusion to draw from the rest of the agreement would  be that this was 
ASGs responsibility.  
ASG has said the annual service didnt cover cleaning the filter because  it was really just a visual 
inspection and safety check. I can see how ASG could interpret the agreement  in this way, but I dont 
think its a reasonable interpretation. 
The purpose  of the annual service as set out in the agreement is to check  the effectiveness  of the 
equipment. Arguably then, it was enough at the annual  service  simply for ASG to check the boiler and 
filter, and report on its effectiveness. But the agreement also says ASG  will keep the equipment  in 
good repair, condition  and working order. So if, having checked the equipment, it was found  not to be 
in good repair, condition or working order, I would  have expected ASG to take action  to put this right.  
This would have included cleaning a magnetic filter that was becoming  blocked to the point that its 
effectiveness was impaired or would  likely become impaired before  the next service.
ASG has said the blockage of the filter was caused  by debris from Mr and Mrs Ms system, and it was 
Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility to make sure the system didnt affect ASGs equipment. I dont think  
ASG can fairly  put the blame on Mr and Mrs M for the filter becoming blocked. The filter was intended  
to capture the debris from Mr and Mrs Ms system to prevent it from becoming  contaminated.  And the 
filter required periodic maintenance. Mr and Mrs M were  not allowed to do this themselves and the 
agreement  fairly interpreted  made this ASGs responsibility.
Bearing in mind  what Ive said above, I think ASG  should  have checked the magnetic filter at the 
annual services,  and cleaned it before debris  could damage  the boiler.  It failed to do so, resulting in 
debris blocking the heat exchanger and Mr and Mrs M incurring a call-out fee which they shouldnt  
have.
Mr and Mrs M also had to have their system power-flushed after the boiler was repaired, to remove 
the debris from the system.  ASGs said that Mr and Mrs Ms radiators and pipework  may be in poor 
condition, and this is the source  of the debris. Mr and Mrs M have said this isnt true and none of their 
radiators are more than 10 years old, but in my view even if they were  in poor condition the system 
would not have become  so contaminated if ASG had maintained the filter as it should have done. It 
seems likely to me that a level of debris  requiring a power-flush to put right would  not have built up 
had the filter been properly maintained or a more  thorough flush carried  out on installation.  So I think  
ASG should cover the cost of the power-flush  as well. 
the expansion vessel
A few weeks after ASG carried out its annual  service, the expansion vessel was found  to be flat when  
the manufacturers engineer  investigated the problems  with the boiler.  ASG says its engineer had re-
pressurised it at the annual service but hasnt explained how it could have become flat in such  a short  
space of time. Its provided a photo which it says shows the work was done,  but I dont find this very 
persuasive. Theres nothing to show it was taken in Mr and Mrs Ms house,  and Mr and Mrs M have 
said they dont think it was because  there are items in the photo which  they do not recognise.
In any case, even if ASGs  engineer did re-pressurise the expansion vessel,  I would  not have  
expected it to be flat within a matter of weeks. This suggests that the re-pressurisation wasnt carried  
out properly, or there was some other fault which  caused  the vessel to lose pressure. Ive not heard 
about any problems  with the vessel since the manufacturers engineer visited, so it seems most  likely 
ASGs engineer either didnt carry  out the work or didnt do it to a satisfactory  standard.
Our investigator thought that ultimately  this hadnt had an impact on Mr and Mrs M because  the issue 
was resolved during the later call-out, which he was already recommending they receive a refund  for. 
I agree Mr and Mrs M havent suffered  any additional  financial  loss, although  ASGs failings when it 
has come  to performing  the maintenance  part of the contract  are things Ive thought about when 
determining what level of compensation is fair.
Ref: DRN84736579customer service
Mr and Mrs M have  mentioned  how unhappy they are at the general  customer  service theyve 
received from ASG over the course of the agreement, especially when theyve spoken to staff on the 
phone. 
ASG hasnt provided call recordings, but it has sent this service some notes of the conversations its 
had with Mr and Mrs M. Not all of these are very detailed  but some of them do appear to support Mr 
and Mrs Ms account of events. For example, on one occasion I can see that a member  of staff put Mr 
M on hold and then hung  up on him, apparently  because Mr M was complaining and he wasnt sure 
how to handle the call. Notes of other calls suggest ASG had taken a dismissive  attitude  when Mr and 
Mrs M reported issues, and was quick to assume  that any problems were not its responsibility.
This is consistent with the position and approach  ASG  has adopted throughout the complaint, and Im 
inclined to accept Mr and Mrs Ms account of their conversations. I agree  the level of service  has been 
poor and this has caused Mr and Mrs M ongoing frustration  and annoyance. 
putting things  right
ASG hasnt met its obligations under its agreement with Mr and Mrs M. Its failed to maintain the 
magnetic filter, leading to debris contaminating the heating system and damaging the boiler. As a 
result, Mr and Mrs M have had to pay for an engineer to come and clean the damaged parts,  and for 
the system to be flushed. ASG has also provided  a generally poor standard  of service  in carrying out 
the maintenance side of the agreement, and when responding to issues reported by Mr and Mrs M. 
This has caused Mr and Mrs M to experience  frustration,  annoyance  and a loss of confidence in the 
company.
To put things right, I intend to direct ASG to do the following:
Refund the call-out charge of £120 which  it added to Mr and Mrs Ms direct debit. 8% simple 
yearly interest* should be added to this refund,  calculated from the date the direct debit was 
taken, to the date the refund is given.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs M the £540 they paid to have the system power-flushed, along  with 
8% simple yearly interest* calculated from the date Mr and Mrs M paid for the power-flush, to 
the date the amount is reimbursed to them.
Inspect and clean the magnetic filter at the 2019 and all subsequent  annual services 
remaining under the agreement. If the 2019  service has already been carried out then ASG  
must either return within four weeks of a final decision being accepted, to inspect and clean 
the filter, or cover the cost to Mr and Mrs M of having another  heating  engineer carry  out this 
work. 
Pay Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation to reflect the frustration and annoyance caused by its 
failure to meet its responsibilities under  the agreement, and the poor level of customer service  
its provided to Mr and Mrs M. ASG  must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs M accepts  a final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of a final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
*If ASG considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from this 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs M a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN847365710my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  and direct A Shade 
Greener (Boilers) LLP to take the actions set out in the putting things right  section. I now invite both 
parties to the complaint to comment  they should make sure anything  they want me to consider 
reaches me by 29 July 2019. 
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8473657