K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that the car she acquired  with finance from Close  Brothers Limited (CB) 
isnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Miss S says she acquired the car in August 2018.  She says in September she experienced 
problems with it. And she says the supplying dealership replaced the engine.
Miss S also says in March  2019 the car broke down due to the failure of the water  pump.  So, 
she says as shes already  accepted a number of repairs,  including  a replacement  engine, 
she no longer has confidence  in the car and she wants  to reject it.
CB says the breakdown was caused  by a new issue and it happened  more  than six months  
after she acquired it. So, it says the onus was on Miss S to prove it was linked to a fault that 
was present at the point of sale.
Our investigator thought Miss Ss complaint should  be upheld. He said CB should  allow   
Miss S to reject the car and arrange to collect it from her; unwind her finance agreement and 
remove the record of it from her credit file; refund all payments  shed made towards her 
finance agreement  from the March 2019 payment onwards; refund the £40 shed paid for an 
independent inspection of the car; and it should  pay Miss S £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shed experienced. 
CB disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It said Miss S has only recently provided 
an engineers  report indicating the water  pump  and cambelt shouldve  been replaced at the 
same time as the engine replacement. And it said it was prepared to replace the water pump 
and cambelt.  CB also said Miss S had covered  substantial mileage in a relatively short 
period after the engine  was replaced,  that wouldve put strain on the relevant  components.  
And it said it wouldnt be reasonable for her to be able to reject  the car, in the circumstances.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
CB supplied  Miss Ss car under a conditional sale agreement, so it was responsible for 
ensuring the car was of satisfactory  quality at that time. 
I see Miss S experienced problems with the car soon  after she acquired it and the situation  
resulted in the engine being replaced by the supplying  dealership.  I also see the breakdown 
thats now acknowledged to have been caused  by the water  pump  failing happened  in March 
2019, around seven months after Miss S acquired the car. And I see CB appears to have 
accepted the expert evidence Miss S recently obtained, that the water  pump  and the cambelt 
shouldve been  replaced at the same time as the engine.
So, as things stand,  the remaining disagreement  between the parties relates to the remedy 
Miss S should receive. CBs given reasons why it considers it should have an opportunity to 
Ref: DRN85531642replace the relevant components. But Miss S says shes lost confidence in the car and 
should be able to reject  it.
Based on everything  Ive seen, including the experts report Miss S obtained, Im satisfied 
the failure of the water  pump that caused  the car to breakdown  in March 2019 was related to 
the replacement  of the engine in September 2018. Ive noted CBs  comments about the 
mileage Miss S covered after the engine was replaced, but I dont have enough information 
to conclude this caused or contributed to the failure of the water pump. 
I see Miss S has already accepted major  repairs to the car and shes been inconvenienced 
by the various  problems  shes experienced with it. In these circumstances I think its 
understandable shes  lost confidence in the car. And I dont  think its reasonable for her to be 
expected to allow CB a further opportunity to carry out repairs  at this stage. 
I think its fair in the circumstances  for Miss S to be able to reject the car, end her finance  
agreement and for CB to collect the car from her at its own expense.  I also think it should  
refund Miss Ss payments  under her finance agreement from March  2019 onwards and 
remove any adverse entries about it from her credit  file. In addition,  I think CB should 
reimburse the £40 Miss S paid for an experts  report on the car and pay her £150  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  shes clearly experienced. So, I uphold 
Miss Ss complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ss complaint against Close Brothers Limited. It must:
1. Allow her to reject the car and end her finance agreement;
2. Collect the car from her at its own expense;
3. Refund all payments  Miss S has made towards her finance agreement  from the March  
2019 payment  onwards;
4. Remove any adverse  entries about  the finance  agreement from her credit  file;
5. Reimburse the £40 she paid for an independent  inspection of the car; and
6. Pay Miss S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  shes  experienced as 
a result of this matter.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.  
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8553164