K821x#15Complaint
Mr C (by way of a representative) says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as 
Sunny) failed to identify whether the loan was affordable. Mr C also says by having this loan 
it has affected his general creditworthiness. 
Background
Mr C took out a running credit facility (RCF) with a £250 credit limit in October 2013. Mr C 
had some problems  repaying  the facility, and it was eventually repaid by January 2018.
Following Mr Cs complaint, Sunny said it hadnt  made an error when it provided the facility. 
Mr C was unhappy with this response and brought the complaint to our service. 
In our adjudicators findings, he thought it was reasonable of Sunny to have granted the 
RCF.  But he thought the way Mr C used his facility shouldve caused  Sunny concern. He 
thought Sunny should have stopped allowing Mr C to drawdown further from 15 March 2014.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings. It said the RCF appeared affordable to 
Mr C but it did accept  something may have gone  wrong when it provided drawdowns from 
26 April 2014  so it agreed to uphold the complaint from this point. Later,  Sunny made a 
new offer,  to uphold from the point the adjudicator  had recommend (15 March 2014)  but it 
wouldnt include 8% simple interest  to its calculation.   
Mr C didnt accept the offers.  As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr C appears  to have agreed  with our adjudicators recent opinion.  As a result, I dont think 
there is a dispute  about Sunny providing the RCF. So, I have no reason to reach any 
findings about what Sunny did when the RCF was initially given instead this final decision, 
will focus on how the facility was used.
In this decision, Ive assumed that the credit  limit for the facility was £250, but Sunny has not 
provided us a copy of the credit agreement, so I cant  be sure this was the limit. But I dont 
think it is unreasonable to think this may have been  the limit given the way the RCF was 
used. 
The relevant  regulations  in place at the time Mr C was given his Sunny RCF 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that Sunny gave Mr C this facility when 
it was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT). The OFT had issued guidance on this 
type of lending and what it says should  be expected from lenders when granting these types 
of loans.
Ref: DRN86721372To be clear, Mr C wasnt given a payday  loan where  he had to repay all of what he borrowed 
plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  was an 
expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a period of five 
months. So overall, I think that this means  the checks Sunny  carried  out had to provide 
enough information for it to be able to understand whether  Mr C would likely be able to 
service and then repay this facility within a reasonable  period  of time.
In, Section  2.2 of the General Principles of Fair Business Practice section of the OFT 
guidance says:  creditors should monitor the borrowers repayment record during the course 
of the credit  agreement, offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing 
financial difficulty. So after the facility was approved, Sunny had an obligation to monitor 
how Mr C may use the facility and then step in if there were signs of financial difficulty.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny shouldve seen that there was likely a problem by the time 
Mr C applied for his 8th drawdown on 15 March 2014. By this point, our adjudicator thought  
that Sunny would have seen that Mr Cs borrowing history showed  he was having  financial 
difficulties because he was potentially reliant  on the facility.
Mr C initially, via the way of two drawdowns  reached what  we believe his credit limit to be. 
What followed then were  a number of repayments  to cover the interest and some of the 
capital  as would be expected given the way the RCF worked. 
At the start of the lending relationship, I dont think Sunny had any cause for concern. Mr C 
was initially using and repaying his facility  in-line  with Sunnys credit agreement. He 
requested his full credit  limit of £250 and was repaying this down through November and 
December 2013.
From January 2014, Mr C took drawdowns of £125  while making repayments at the end of 
the month of a similar amount. In February a similar  pattern was followed  small drawdowns 
followed by some repayments. It seems that Mr C was making repayments then drawing 
funds back up to his credit limit. 
So like the adjudicator, I agree that by the eighth drawdown (15 March) Sunny ought to have 
been concerned  by the way Mr C was using  the RCF. The pattern broadly continued from 
previous months  - Mr C making multiple  repayments and then drawing back up to his credit  
limit. The way he was using the facility  showed he was not making  any headway in repaying 
what he owed, despite having the facility for a number of months and making a number of 
repayments.  Instead, Mr C was paying Sunny interest to effectively service the debt. 
Given the obligation on Sunny at the time,  I think it ought to have had real concerns about 
Mr Cs ability  to manage the account  in the way expected by the middle of March 2014.  So 
as a responsible  lender it ought  to have realised that Mr C wouldnt be in a position  to 
suitable manage any repayments  moving forward because he wasnt using the facility as 
intended by Sunny. 
So Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint from 15 March 2014. 
Ref: DRN86721373Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on drawdowns from 15 March 2014  until 
his facility closed;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  from Mr Cs credit file about his running credit 
facility from 15 March  2014 until his facility closed;  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should  pay Mr C compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8672137