K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) didnt carry out the annual 
service of his boiler during the policy year as his contract provided for.
background   
Mr H has a Homecare agreement with BG that provides insurance against  various  problems 
arising with his home hot water  and heating system. It also includes an annual service  visit 
to check that his boiler is working safely and in line with relevant laws and regulations. Mr 
Hs policy year runs from 3 December to 2 December the following year.
On 10 October 2018, BG wrote to Mr H to remind him that he should contact it to arrange for 
his annual service  for policy year 2017/18. The last service had been on 1 December 2017, 
which was just at the very end of policy year 2016/17. 
Mr H contacted BG and asked that his 2017/18 annual service  be booked  in for a date 
before 2 December  2018. BG then wrote to Mr H to tell him that due to a shortage  of 
engineers the earliest date on which it could fit in his service was 17 January 2019. This 
meant that Mr H wouldnt have had an annual service visit in the 2017/18 policy year.
Mr H wrote to BG to complain. He considers that BG was in breach of its contract with him. 
BG accepted that Mr H was correct in this, apologised, and initially offered him £65 in 
compensation. This was then increased  to £85 in recognition of the inconvenience and upset 
hed been caused.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this as he felt that BG had behaved very badly, and that in offering 
him compensation it was going against its own policy term which states:
Cash in lieu
We wont offer you cash instead  of carrying out an annual service, repairs or 
replacements.
He told BG he wasnt interested in a cash in lieu payment as he had both young  and old 
vulnerable people staying with him over the Christmas period and wanted his boiler serviced 
within the contract period. He said BGs planning, contractual and service  failures  had 
caused him inconvenience and stress.
As Mr H wasnt satisfied  with BGs  response to his complaint, he brought  his complaint to 
this service on 8 December 2018. As it was now too late for a service in the 2017/18 policy  
year, he said he wanted a full apology and an explanation from BG  as  to its future action 
plans, and repayment of his £306.26  annual premium as he believes that BG has done 
nothing for him in the policy year 2017/8.
Our investigators view was that BG had addressed  Mr Hs complaint in a way that was fair 
and reasonable,  and she didnt think that BG needed to do anything  more.
Mr H isnt satisfied that agreeing with BGs  award  of £85 compensation sends out the right 
message to BG, and asked that the matter  be referred to an ombudsman.  Mr Hs complaint 
has therefore been passed  to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN87941362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Hs complaint 
and Ill explain why not.
I should say at the start that I can understand Mr Hs annoyance that BG wasnt  able to fit in 
his annual service  between October 2018  and 17 January 2019. One would have expected  
that some  dates would  have been available. But I can see from BGs records that attempts 
were made to bring  forward the date,  but those dealing with Mr Hs complaint were  told by 
BGs planners that this simply wasnt possible.  
In fairness to BG, I should point  out that Mr Hs policy  does state:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre  entitled to within a reasonable time, unless
something beyond  our control  makes that impossible   in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
I accept, though, that the unavailability of engineers was probably something that was within 
BGs control.
In making my decision, I take into account  what Mr H has said, and his concern for the 
comfort and safety of his family during a winter  period. But on the other  hand,  there  was 
nothing to suggest that there was a concern  about  his boiler at the time, and if something 
had gone wrong,  Mr H wouldve been able to call on the insurance  elements of his policy  for 
an urgent  repair. So although Mr H makes the point that BG has done  nothing for him during  
policy year 2017/18,  he has had the benefit  of the insurance provided by the policy,  so if 
anything had gone wrong, he could  have called on BG to put it right.
I note what Mr H says about his entitlement to an annual service visit during the policy  year 
2017/18, and that was something he correctly says he shouldve received under BGs  
agreement with him. In fact, it was around  seven  weeks late. But I dont consider this to be a 
particularly lengthy  delay, and if something had gone wrong BG wouldve dealt with it 
urgently. 
But it shouldnt have  happened,  and BG has acknowledged this by its offer of £85 
compensation. BG has said that the fact that this service falls into policy year 2018/19 
doesnt mean that this qualifies as the annual visit for this policy year,  and hell be entitled to 
another one before 2 December 2019.
As our investigator has explained, it isnt part of our function to punish  businesses who we 
consider have done things wrong, but to get them to put things right in the most appropriate 
way. In this case,  I think that BG has attempted to do this by offering £85 compensation and 
agreeing to undertake another service in policy  year 2018/19, and I think  this is reasonable. 
The fact that compensation  in lieu of a service visit might be regarded  as a breach by BG of 
its terms and conditions  is a matter for BG. I think that the term that Mr H refers to is one 
thats included  for BGs benefit, to prevent customers from claiming  a cash  alternative  to an 
annual service, and as such,  it can waive  it if it chooses.
Ref: DRN87941363Im therefore  satisfied that BGs  offer of £85 compensation is both fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  I would also expect  BG to offer an apology,  but Im not going to 
make an order  to this effect.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not going to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8794136