K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy with a loan she took out in 1999. She wants  it to refund her all the 
money she paid for the policy, plus interest. 
 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that HSBC had mis-sold  PPI to Mrs G and didnt recommend  that it should give her any 
money back. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review 
her case,  so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding what to do in Mrs Gs case.  Ive looked into everything that Mrs G and HSBC  have  
told us or sent us about the complaint  and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain why below.
 
Mrs G has told us that HSBC added PPI to her loan without her agreement.  Shes explained 
that she didnt need the PPI as (her)  then partner paid all the bills  (and she)  wouldnt 
have taken the policy if she (had known) it was optional.
Mrs G took the loan and PPI policy  a long time ago and neither she nor HSBC have been 
able to send us any of the application forms or similar paperwork which  Mrs G may have 
completed or signed. Given the amount of time that has passed, I dont find this surprising. 
But I have seen an example of the type of loan agreement which HSBC says it was using at 
the time.  I think its very likely  that Mrs G completed  something very similar to this example. 
The example  shows that HSBC required customers to sign a Creditor  Protection  
Declaration to buy PPI. Customers who didnt  want to buy PPI could leave the declaration 
blank. So Im satisfied  that PPI was optional. 
I dont have any reason  to think that HSBC didnt  follow its usual procedure with Mrs G and it 
seems unlikely to me that HSBC would have  added PPI to Mrs Gs loan without her signing 
one of its declarations.  I think  its more  likely  that HSBC gave Mrs G a choice and she chose 
to take PPI by signing such  a declaration.  I fully accept  that Mrs G may no longer remember 
these details, but I dont think that HSBC denied her a choice to apply for her loan with or 
without PPI. 
Mrs G paid for the policy by taking  an extra  loan for the cost of the premium, on which she 
also paid interest. The example loan agreement shows  how HSBC says it presented  the cost 
of this type of policy to its customers. This included the price of the premium,  the interest 
customers had to pay on it and the total price. It also showed the monthly cost. I think  its 
likely that HSBC did this for Mrs G to let her know about the extra  cost of PPI. 
Mrs G has told us that she cant  remember whether HSBC recommended PPI to her. 
Similarly, HSBC  cant tell us if it recommended PPI to Mrs G or sold it to her on an 
information  only basis. But if HSBC did make  a recommendation, then it would have had to 
check that the policy was right for Mrs G and tell her about it fairly and clearly so she could 
Ref: DRN81464792decide if she wanted it. So, in fairness  to Mrs G, I have assumed  that HSBC  did recommend 
the policy to her. 
As there are no records from the time, I dont know what HSBC said to Mrs G about PPI or 
what questions,  if any, it asked  her about  her circumstances and potential  need for 
insurance. So Ive looked at the policys features and what I know  about Mrs Gs situation at 
the time to see if it was reasonable for HSBC  to recommend PPI to her. 
The policy had eligibility criteria which Mrs G met. She seems to have  been  able to afford to 
pay for it, and not to have been affected by any of its main  exclusions or limitations. 
HSBC arranged for the loan and the policy  to run for the same  length of time, but if Mrs G 
had repaid the loan and cancelled the policy early, then she would probably only have  
received a partial refund.  However, I havent seen anything to suggest that when Mrs G took 
the loan she was likely to repay  it early. 
Mrs G has told us that if she was off work sick her employer would have paid her sick pay. I 
accept this may well have been useful, but if Mrs G had made a successful claim on the 
policy it would have  paid out over and above  her sick pay and could have lasted for longer. 
So I dont  think Mrs Gs entitlement to sick pay meant she didnt have a potential  need for 
PPI. Similarly,  I fully understand  that Mrs Gs then partner may well have helped with her 
loan repayments  if needed, but her partners income  may have been needed for other 
things, so PPI could still have been  useful for Mrs G. 
So taking everything I have seen into account, I think  it was reasonable for HSBC  to 
recommend PPI to Mrs G. 
I accept that its quite possible that HSBC  didnt explain everything to Mrs G as well as it 
should have done. But, Im satisfied  that HSBC gave  Mrs G a choice about the policy, that 
she was eligible for it, that she wasnt affected by its main exclusions or limitations, that she 
had a potential  need for the cover  and could afford the policy. So I think Mrs G would  still 
have taken policy even  if HSBC had explained everything properly. I dont think  HSBC mis-
sold PPI to Mrs G. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint about  HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8146479