K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M, represented  by a financial adviser, complained because Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Halifax, sent mortgage  documents to the address where Mrs Ms abusive ex-
partner was living.  
Halifax has paid a total of £1,151.04 compensation. Mr and Mrs M want  £2,000.
background
Mrs M had a residential mortgage on a property Ill call A. In 2011, Mrs M changed her 
correspondence address to another  property, which Ill call B, when she moved in with her 
then partner. So the mortgage  statements for 2011 to 2014 correctly  went  to property B, 
showing the security address which was property A. 
In April 2015, Mrs M notified Halifax of her change of address  from property  B, back to 
property A. She told Halifax that no correspondence  was to go to the property B address. 
Halifax changed its records for Mrs Ms bank accounts  but it had a new computer system  
at about that time, and it failed to change its records for the mortgage  account. So Mrs Ms 
mortgage statements  wrongly continued to go to property B, showing the security address 
which was property A.
By 2018, Mrs M was married to Mr M, and they contacted Halifax  about a redemption figure 
for paying off the mortgage on property  A. 
In the course  of these discussions,  Mrs M found out that mortgage  letters  had been wrongly 
addressed to her at property B. She complained, saying she hadnt  lived there for seven 
years, and had told Halifax  many  times  before. In her call on 19 April, she told Halifax that 
her children were at risk because of the banks error.
Mrs M told Halifax that it had breached data protection by sending  information to another  
address. She explained that this was even more important because  her ex-partner lived at 
property B, and shed  obtained a court order against  him. Mrs M told Halifax  that her ex-
partner hadnt  known where they lived, and it could be a huge problem for her children, as 
well as leading to potential fraud  and / or identity theft.
Halifax apologised.  It accepted that it hadnt  updated the correspondence address for 
Mrs Ms mortgage, and said it had logged this in line with its data protection  internal 
processes. And the bank accepted that Mrs M was concerned about potential  fraud, and 
said it would  cover the cost of a 12 month  membership of a credit  file service, if Mrs M 
wanted to sign up with such a service and would send evidence of the cost.  And it asked 
Mrs M to tell it what actions shed had to take,  which she wouldnt  have  done  if it hadnt been 
for Halifaxs error.
Halifax paid Mrs M £600  compensation in June, and a further  £400  in August. 
Mrs Ms representative asked Halifax for £2,000 compensation,  plus:
-£151.04 for increased security at her home;  and 
-Hotel accommodation abroad for £1,236;  and 
-Travel costs for her oldest son as shed asked him to travel  back from the holiday 
early to look after the property, for £266.
Ref: DRN84730432Mrs Ms representative told Halifax  that if Mrs M chose to go to a solicitor, the costs would 
escalate out of control. The representative  said that as Halifax  had breached data protection  
on a number of occasions, this small amount of money would draw a line under the 
incident.
Halifax agreed to pay for the security, but not the holiday costs.  It said that this was Mrs Ms 
choice and not a reasonable cost resulting  from its error.  It was also not willing to pay £2,000  
compensation.
With the £151.04 for the security costs, Halifax had paid Mrs M a total of £1,151.04.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied  and complained  to this service. She said that Halifax  had clearly 
breached the Information Commissioners rules about data protection and hadnt taken 
responsibility. And she said Halifax had also breached the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA)s rules about systems and control, or about  complaint handling.  She complained that 
Halifax hadnt identified  she was a vulnerable customer. She asked  the investigator to obtain 
recordings of all phone calls, and to read all her letters  so that hed understand the position 
Halifax had put her in. 
Her representative also said that Mrs M had obtained a restraining order against her ex-
partner. The investigator  asked for a copy, but Mrs M told us shed shredded  it. But she sent 
a witness statement from a former neighbour, dated  March 1995.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. He appreciated that Mrs M had 
been concerned.  But he said that there  wasnt any evidence that Mrs Ms ex-partner  had 
contacted Mrs M or acted  maliciously. So he thought that £1,000 for trouble and upset, plus 
£151.04 for additional security measures, was fair and reasonable. He explained that this 
services role isnt to punish  banks for mistakes, but to consider whether  the consumer had 
been treated fairly by the bank when putting  errors  right.  The investigator considered Halifax  
had acted reasonably, and considered that the total of £1,151.04  was fair.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied.  Her representative said that Mrs M hadnt  been treated fairly by 
Halifax. She said the bank  had broken  the FCA rules about  complaints. And Mrs M had rung 
Halifax numerous times and visited a branch. She asked about  the phone  recordings, and 
said that if anything  had happened to Mrs Ms family, it would be a police matter and Halifax 
would have to pay much more than £2,000.  She wanted to know  whether Halifax  had 
changed its systems to prevent this happening  again, and said it was just a small slap on the 
wrist. She said shed take the matter to the Information Commissioner. And she said Halifax 
and other  lenders had paid out more money,  for lesser complaints.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to three phone  call 
recordings.
Its correct that the right place for Mrs M to pursue her data protection  issues is through  the 
Information Commissioner, and I understand that her representative is doing this. Our role is 
limited to considering  whether its fair and reasonable for a business to pay compensation to 
recognise the impact  of whats happened  to the consumer.
Ref: DRN84730433And complaints about a banks procedures,  and systems, are dealt with not by this service, 
but by the regulator, the FCA. So thats the route for Mrs M to pursue about those matters, if 
she wishes to do so.
The facts  about  what happened arent in dispute,  and Halifax  has accepted that it should 
have changed  Mrs Ms correspondence  address on her mortgage  in 2015, when it changed 
the correspondence address for her bank accounts. Mrs M discovered that it hadnt done  so 
in 2018.
When this service looks at compensation, we look at the impact which the mistake caused to 
the individual. I accept that Mrs M was anxious, angry and concerned when she found  out 
that her mortgage statements had been  going to an address where  her abusive ex-partner 
would have access to it. Shes told us that her ex-partner  was abusive, and she suffered 
much distress and worry when she found out what had happened. I can also understand 
why Mrs M was understandably  furious  when Halifax initially  told her shed have to pay £10 
a letter  for copies of the letters the bank had sent to the wrong address. As she said in the 
call on 24 April, this would  have  been Halifax charging Mrs M for Halifaxs mistake.  
So I find that its fair and reasonable for Halifax to pay Mrs M some compensation for the 
upset caused  by its mistake.
But Ive also had to bear in mind  that Mrs M had lived at, and had the mortgage on, 
property A when she moved in with her (now-ex)  partner in 2011. And for the years they 
were together, annual  mortgage statements for property  A went  to Mrs M at property B. So I 
consider Mrs Ms ex-partner would have known the address of property A already. Hed also 
have known that Mrs M had a mortgage  on that property.  So the documents  which went to 
property B after 2015  didnt  reveal  to Mrs Ms ex-partner  any address which  he wouldnt 
already have known.  
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that £1,000 compensation for trouble and upset, 
which Halifax has already  paid to Mrs M, was fair and reasonable. I note that the bank also 
paid Mrs M £151.04 for additional security measures, which was also fair. I am not 
persuaded that there was any fair reason why Halifax should  pay Mrs Ms £1,236  holiday 
costs, or her sons flight back from holiday.  
Mrs Ms representative has said that if the ex-partner had acted maliciously  against  Mrs M 
as a result  of the banks error, Halifax  would  have to pay much  more in a criminal case than 
£2,000. Its not for me to comment on what might have happened in different  circumstances,  
or in any criminal trial. But I dont consider its a valid argument to say that Halifax should 
pay more compensation,  because  it might  have done so in different  circumstances.
Mrs Ms representative has also argued  that she thinks Halifax  and other  lenders have paid 
out more compensation for less serious  complaints. This isnt specific,  and in any event I 
cant comment on other cases. This service looks at every case  individually,  and the 
principles and some case studies are set out on our website.
Finally, Mrs Ms representative said that Mrs M wanted  £2,000  compensation because  shed  
be paying the representative  £500  for the work shed  done. This isnt something  which  this 
service would take into account.  Consumers dont have to use a representative  to complain 
to this service, and if they choose to do so, thats their own choice. We wouldnt increase 
whatever compensation we consider fair and reasonable,  in order  to pay for a consumers 
representative. 
Ref: DRN84730434my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I do not require Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Halifax, to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8473043