K821x#15Complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the way Metro Bank PLC handled his fraud  claim.
Background
In August  2017,  Mr S was the victim of an internet banking scam. Mr S received an email  
asking him to renew his password. Soon after he received a phone  call from someone 
purporting to be from Metro Bank  who convinced him to provide information about his bank 
account so that money could be transferred out of his account. 
As a result of the fraud, £3,600 was transferred out of Mr Ss account. 
 
Mr S complained to Metro  Bank  about what had happened. And he asked it to refund  him 
the money. Metro Bank said Mr S hadnt taken adequate care of his banking  security 
information, so it wasnt  willing  to refund him. Unhappy with this response,  Mr S brought his 
complaint to our service.
Initially one of our investigators  looked  at Mr Ss complaint and said Metro  Bank  hadnt  done 
anything wrong  when it declined his fraud claim. However, we looked again at the circumstances 
of Mr Ss complaint and said Mr S hadnt  been grossly negligent when he provided his banking  
information to the fraudsters. And we asked  Metro Bank to consider refunding  Mr S.
Metro Bank  agreed. And in 2019 refunded the disputed  transaction  along with interest  for loss 
of use of the money. Mr S was happy to get his money back. But also said, that hed suffered 
a great  deal of distress  and inconvenience over a period of two years  because of the matter.  
In summary,  hes said that the fraudulent transaction completely cleared out his account  
which left him with no money.  Hes also said the whole  matter  has taken a toll on his mental 
health, which affected his ability to work and caused  him to seek  treatment from his doctor. 
Mr S says Metro Bank treated him as if he were  guilty and that he was responsible  for what 
happened. And that Metro  Bank couldve put everything right from the start. So, he feels  
Metro Bank  should  pay him additional compensation.
One of our investigators  asked Mr S to provide  us with some evidence of how the matter has 
impacted him. Unfortunately, Mr S hasnt provided us with any information. So, the matter 
has been passed to me to review. 
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 
December 2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Theres no dispute between the parties as to the events that have taken place. And I need 
not repeat  them here. In this decision, I need  only address the issues  of how it would be fair 
and reasonable to settle this complaint. And whether Metro  Bank  has done enough to put 
things right. 
Mr S says refunding the disputed transaction isnt enough  for the distress  and inconvenience 
hes suffered. Hes explained that as a result of the fraud he was left with absolutely no 
money in his account. And he had to rely on his mother to feed him. Mr S says he couldnt 
work because he couldnt  provide a secure  bank account to employers, so his income  was 
Ref: DRN84203322reduced. And his health has suffered as a result of the immense  stress and upset the matter 
caused  which has been made worse due to how long the matter  has taken to resolve. 
Metro Bank  has refunded  the fraudulent transaction - £3,600.  And paid Mr S interest  at a 
rate of 8% per year,  because Mr S had been  without his money  for quite some time  nearly 
two years.  So, Im satisfied that Mr S hasnt lost out financially.  However,  I will look at this 
point again if Mr S is able to provide  evidence  of any other  losses.  
Mr S has said he has been distressed and upset by what happened. He believes the stress 
hes experienced has caused  on-going health issues.  Being the victim of fraud,  is likely  to 
upset anyone. And I dont doubt  that this has been a very worrying time for Mr S especially  
after Metro  Bank declined to refund a transaction he didnt authorise, after having been the 
victim of a scam.
Having looked  at the circumstances of this case,  I dont  think  it would be fair to say that 
Metro Bank  caused  all the trouble  and upset Mr Ss experienced. After all, Metro Bank didnt 
carry out the fraud which resulted in Mr S losing his money. 
However, Im presently minded to ask Metro Bank to pay Mr S additional compensation. I 
say this because  Metro Bank has accepted  that it shouldnt have rejected Mr Ss claim when 
it did. Had it reached this conclusion in August 2017,  I think  it more  likely than not that the 
impact on Mr S would  have lessened. And Im satisfied that Mr S has experienced worry and 
inconvenience. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Metro Bank to pay Mr S an 
additional £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience hes suffered here. 
Mr S and Metro didnt respond to my provisional  decision. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Mr S and Metro havent offered any more comments or evidence,  Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
Metro Bank  has accepted  that it shouldnt have  rejected Mr Ss claim when it did. Had it 
reached this conclusion in August 2017,  I think it more  likely than not that the impact on Mr S 
would have lessened.  And Im satisfied that Mr S has experienced worry and inconvenience. 
So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Metro Bank to pay Mr S an additional £300 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience hes suffered here. 
Ref: DRN84203323My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Js complaint in part. And I direct Metro Bank 
PLC to pay Mr J £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he suffered as a 
result of Metro Bank PLC incorrectly declining to refund  disputed  transactions.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8420332