K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a Plan B policy. 
background
Mr P bought the policy in 2008  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  The policy  
covered Mr P for unemployment and life. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint because:
 Barclays have shown us screenshots that they are representative of what  Mr P would 
have seen when  applying for this policy online.
The screenshots show that there  were three different options for the level of cover and 
also a 4th option if PPI wasnt required. The level of cover added to the account  was life 
and involuntary  unemployment. 
I think Barclays made Mr P aware that he had a choice  about buying the policy, and 
that he chose  to take it.
 Barclays didnt recommend the policy  to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But Barclays did still have  to give Mr P good enough information  about the PPI so 
that he could decide if he wanted to take it out. 
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr P doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him if he was made  unemployed. 
I say this because  Mr P has told us that he had no other means  for making  his 
repayments if he was made unemployed. So I dont think  better  information  wouldve 
stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ps comments,  including what  hes said about pre-existing medical 
conditions (PEMCs) he had at the time of taking the policy.  But I dont think that any PEMC  
would have affected Mr Ps ability to claim on this policy as it didnt cover  accident or 
sickness. So these points  dont change my decision.
I know that wont be the outcome that Mr P wanted, but I thank  him for his time and patience  
whilst waiting for an outcome. 
Ref: DRN88552902Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because : 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr P any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr P the difference  
between what Mr P owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mr P 8%* simple  
interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does have to pay back  to Mr P any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019 .
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8855290