K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Animal Friends  Insurance Services  Ltd in 
connection with his pet insurance policy.
background
Mr T complains that Animal Friends sent his pet policy  renewal notice on the same  day the 
policy was due for renewal. He says that didnt give him enough time to check the 
information. He also says Animal Friends staff were patronising, rude and disrespectful  to 
him and it delayed in answering his complaint. He wants  Animal Friends to pay him £30 to 
£75 compensation  for his distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
Animal Friends says it didnt do anything  wrong.
Our investigator thought Animal Friends had sent Mr T the policy  renewal documents  before 
the policy was due to renew,  had dealt with Mr Ts calls in a professional manner and hadnt  
delayed in responding to his complaint.
Mr T disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He explained  why he is a vulnerable  
consumer, which he believes our investigator  didnt take into account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Mr Ts pet insurance policy was due to renew  on 26 February 2019. Ive seen that 
Animal Friends sent Mr T the policy renewal notice  by email on 28 January 2019. The notice 
said the policy renewal  date was 26 February 2019.  So Animal Friends didnt send the 
renewal notice on the same day the policy was due to renew.
Mr T phoned Animal Friends  on 28 January 2019.  Ive listened to the call. Mr T confirmed to 
Animal Friends hed received the email  with the renewal documents  that day and hed seen  
the documents.
Mr T called Animal  Friends  on 28 January as he was concerned  his policy  had automatically 
renewed and to update his email details.  The policy hadnt automatically renewed  on that 
date but the call handler didnt realise  the renewal date wasnt  until 26 February 2019 so he 
said he would look into the matter. Animal Friends tried to call Mr T later that day to tell him 
the renewal date was in February but it wasnt able to speak to Mr T or leave a voicemail.
When Mr T called Animal  Friends on 14 February  2019 to cancel the renewal Mr Ts 
comments show he was aware  the policy was due to renew  on 26 February. Animal  Friends  
told him the existing  policy would be in force until then.  
Im satisfied that Animal Friends sent, and Mr T received, the policy renewal information 
about 28 days before the renewal date. Mr T had enough time to look through  the policy to 
check it still met his needs before it renewed.
Ref: DRN88996422Mr T called Animal  Friends  on 13 February 2019  to make a complaint  but he ended the call 
as he thought the call handler  was being  patronising, rude and disrespectful. Ive listened  to 
the call. The call handler wasnt patronising, rude or disrespectful to Mr T. 
Ive also listened  to the other calls between Mr T and Animal  Friends  during February and 
March 2019. Ive taken into account  that Mr T is a vulnerable consumer but theres no 
evidence that Animal Friends staff were patronising, rude or disrespectful  to Mr T. Im 
satisfied that Animal  Friends  dealt with Mr T in a professional manner.  
Animal Friends didnt delay in responding to Mr Ts complaint. He called to complain on 
13 February 2019 and in that call Animal Friends told him it might  take up to eight weeks  to 
look into and respond to his complaint. Under  the Financial Conduct  Authority  rules  a 
business has eight  weeks to issue a final response to a complaint. Animal  Friends sent Mr T 
its final response on 23 March 2019,  within the eight weeks.
Overall, Animal  Friends  didnt do anything  wrong and I make no compensation award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019. 
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8899642