K820x#14complaint
Mrs G and Mr I are trustees of assets settled in trust by their late father (the late Mr I). They  
are also beneficiaries of the assets.  Both,  as trustees, consent  to the present complaint but it 
is led by Mrs G. She says St. Jamess Place  Wealth Management Plc (SJP) committed 
wrongdoings which affected the trustees (or trusts).
background
Mrs G is also the joint executrix of the late Mr Is estate. In this capacity, and alongside  the 
other executrix, she has made complaints arising from the interests  of the estate. That 
matter is being  addressed  separately. This decision addresses only the issues related to the 
trusts.
A summary  of the relevant events is as follows:
In 2011 the late Mr I settled trusts for three  Investment  Bonds  (IBs)  and for a Gift 
and Loan plan. 
SJP says the late Mr I met with its partner in 2012 for a financial review  and estate 
planning.
Mrs G and her father met with the same  partner in 2016.  The latter had changed  his 
will and he updated the partner  in this respect. Mrs G says the key instruction to the 
partner, during the meeting, was that the entire  estate (or the residue as described  in 
the will) should go to her. The suggestion  is that the late Mr I sought to have  all of his 
wealth/assets (after deductions set out in the will) bequeathed to Mrs G. She says 
the partner made no mention, during the meeting, about how any existing trust 
arrangements impacted  on this wish/instruction.
In July 2017 the late Mr I unfortunately passed away. In August 2017 Mrs G learnt 
that benefits from one of the trusts were to be split equally between her and Mr I. In 
the same  month, she was assured by another SJP partner that the money she 
intended to use for a property purchase  would  be easily  accessible as its source  sat 
outside of the estate,  so its withdrawal would not require probate. The partner 
reconfirmed this in January 2018.
In February 2018 Mrs G informed the partner that she had found a property and 
needed to arrange  access to the relevant funds in order to proceed with the 
purchase. The partner confirmed the funds were  available but said the withdrawal 
required to meet the purchase cost would  be the maximum available.  Later in the 
same month she updated the partner about another property  purchase that was 
ready to begin.  She says he informed her that it might not be possible to release the 
money required for the second property purchase until after probate  was granted.
In April 2018 SJP told Mrs G that no money could be released to her for either  of the 
property purchases until after probate was granted. She complained about this and 
said the partners  previous  reassurances had misled her to the point of committing  to 
the first property purchase  which she said she would not have done without 
reassurances that funds were available for it. A solution to the matter  arose in the 
form of a withdrawal from a Unit Trust investment in order to pay for the first property 
purchase. Funds in this respect  were remitted to Mrs G in May 2018.
Later in May 2018 SJP informed Mrs G that trust arrangements for the IBs, which  
previously did not feature in her dealings with SJP after the passing  of her father, had 
been found in the previous  partners archive  of documents. Mrs G says the effect, as 
presented to her by SJP, was that the trust arrangements were valid and as such  
less of the late Mr Is wealth was subject to his 2016 will  so she would receive  less 
Ref: DRN83202312that he had intended to bequeath to her. She complained about this matter  too and 
queried the conflict between the previous partners claim that the trust arrangements  
were not discussed  in the 2016  meeting  because  he considered  them invalid (due to 
a missing signature) and SJPs position  in 2018 that the arrangements are valid 
(based on the signatures existing within it). Primarily, she argued  that the absence of 
this discussion in 2016 meant  her father  was poorly advised, he was led to believe 
his specific wish for the inheritance of his wealth  had been arranged  when, to the 
contrary and because  of the trust arrangements, it had not.
Thereafter and in the course of 2018  both parties engaged in complaint related 
correspondence. This featured Mrs Gs trust related and estate related complaints 
and included  a succession of response  letters from SJP. In conclusion, SJP made  an 
offer to Mrs G of £2,000 for both sets of complaints and for the trouble and upset 
caused to her by matters  within  them.  With regards  to the trust based complaints, it 
says the lack of discussion of the trust arrangements in the 2016 meeting was 
because the assets  in the trusts were outside of the estate to which the 2016  will 
related, so they were irrelevant to the discussion of the will; that it had legal advice (in 
2018) that the trust arrangements  are valid and it stands by that advice; and that a 
compromise was successfully achieved to ensure funds for the first property 
purchase  which  were first said to be outside the estate and then said to be subject 
to probate for the estate  were remitted to Mrs G in time.
Mrs G did not accept  this outcome and referred her complaints to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into both the trust based and estate based  parts  of the 
complaints. With regards to the trust based  complaint he mainly said as follows:
Whilst he appreciates the stress and worry Mrs G would  have experienced from 
SJPs mistake over the accessing of funds for the first property purchase,  he notes 
that SJP found  a way to release the required funds to assist with the purchase. The 
relevant trouble and upset in the issue was faced by Mrs G as a beneficiary  not as 
a trustee. Given that her status  as a complainant is that of a trustee there lacks a 
basis for trouble  and upset compensation in this respect. There  also does not appear 
to have been a financial loss arising from the issue.
The same  broadly applies to the issue about the trust arrangements.  SJP mishandled  
this issue but there has been no financial effect  upon Mrs G as a trustee  instead 
the effect upon her is within her capacity as a beneficiary.
Overall, it would not be appropriate  to ask SJP to do more  than the offer it has made 
Mrs G.
Mrs G disagreed with this outcome and, with Mr Is consent, asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the investigator for broadly the same reasons he gave. It is 
important to note that this complaint has been approached within the scope this services 
jurisdiction. Under that jurisdiction trustee can be an eligible  complainant but a beneficiary of 
a trust cannot.
As previously stated this decision  addresses  only the trust based complaint. However, my 
observation is that the majority of Mrs Gs expressions of dissatisfaction  relate to the estate. 
Ref: DRN83202313The issues  arising  from the trust based complaint are limited  to those summarised by the 
investigator  that is, the matter of releasing funds outside the estate for the property 
purchase; and the matter of the trust arrangements  for the three IBs.
I am persuaded that SJP mishandled both matters, in relation  to Mrs G as a trustee. In the 
first matter  (the property purchase) misinformation  it provided to her threatened to hinder the 
execution of her role as a trustee  in terms of using funds which  were  supposed  to be 
outside the estate (in trust) for a beneficiary purpose.  However, it did not quite cause the 
harm that was threatened because the funds to meet  the purchase were  found and released. 
I have not seen evidence that this was done  too late or done with an associated  detriment 
(or financial loss) to the trust.
As the investigator  identified, trouble and upset was undoubtedly caused in this issue  but it 
was faced by Mrs G as a beneficiary, not as a trustee.  The property purchase had a 
personal purpose. The uncertainty  caused by SJPs  error and the distress  that would  have 
caused her has not been disregarded. However,  as a trustee her role was mainly to arrange 
for the funds to meet the specific benefit and, in the end (and, it appears, within the requisite  
time period),  the funds  met the specific benefit  without detriment or loss to the trust.
The second  matter (the trust arrangements for the IBs) appears  to have its roots  (or main  
points) in the estate  related complaint  Mrs Gs key argument is that the arrangements  
should have been disclosed and addressed in 2016,  in the context of her fathers will at the 
time. I do not address the merits of this argument as it is a part of the separate complaint. In 
terms of its duty towards Mrs G as a trustee, SJP mishandled this matter  by being unaware  
of it  when the opposite  should have been the case  from July 2017 (when it was informed  
of the late Mr Is passing)  to around May 2018  (when it informed Mrs G after discovering it).
Mrs G has explained her claim of a financial loss arising from this issue   that is, the 
reduction in what she inherits  given  that the benefits from the IBs are equally shared with Mr 
I, in contrast  to her expectation of inheriting all of the benefits.  This is an alleged  detriment 
that she faces as a beneficiary, not as a trustee. Furthermore, I have not seen evidence of a 
financial loss arising from this issue.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr I to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8320231