K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard hasnt refunded  her 
money under either the chargeback rules  or S75 Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Ms H bought tickets  for a football match due to take place on 4 December 2018. She paid about 
£500 for the tickets and was told by the seller of the tickets that the date of the football match  
had been changed to 5 December 2018 which was a date she was unable to attend. Ms H says 
she asked if the tickets could be re-sold but was told they could not be. She says she then 
asked Barclaycard to try and help get her money  back as she didnt receive what she paid for.
Barclaycard says it attempted both a chargeback and a S75 Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 
claim. But it says the chargeback failed as it was brought outside the scheme  time limits for 
doing so and in any event  the tickets were  non-refundable. It also says the S75 claim failed as 
there was no breach  of contract  or misrepresentation and Ms H had been  given the service  
she asked for namely the tickets. Barclaycard says Ms H e-mailed the seller  of the tickets and 
told it to try and resell the tickets and that is why Ms H didnt receive  the actual tickets.
Ms H brought her complaint to us but our investigator thought  Barclaycard had dealt fairly 
with it. The investigator  thought the terms and conditions of the agreement between  Ms H 
and the ticket seller  said it wasnt responsible for changes  in dates. And so there wasnt any 
S75 rights as Ms H had received what she asked for. The investigator thought the reason 
Ms H hadnt  received the tickets was because she told the ticket seller  to try and resell them.
Ms H says shes  been left in an unfair  position and that the ticket seller didnt tell her if it 
could resell tickets. Ms H would like her money  back.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so Ive come to the same overall view as 
the investigator that Barclaycard has done  everything it could to try and help Ms H.
I can see that Ms H asked Barclaycard to try and help her in her dispute  with the ticket seller  
by raising a chargeback and by considering if S75 CCA applied here. The chargeback 
scheme is a voluntary scheme and its rules are not set as in this case by Barclaycard  but by 
the debit and credit card providers. And there is no automatic chargeback rights but we 
would normally expect  a business to raise  a chargeback if there  were  reasonable prospects 
of success. I can see that Barclaycard did raise a chargeback but it was successfully 
defended. So Im satisfied that Barclaycard did everything it could by raising the chargeback  
but I dont think  it could do any more. I say that as I can see that the chargeback was made 
outside the time limits and that the ticket  sellers terms and conditions in any event make 
clear its not liable for a change in date.
S75 CCA says that the provider of credit-Barclaycard in this case, is equally liable with the 
seller in certain circumstances for example breach of contract or misrepresentation. Im 
satisfied here that there wasnt a breach of contract or any misrepresentation. I think Ms H 
received what she paid for which were two tickets for a football  match  on 4 December 2018. 
Im satisfied it wasnt the seller of the tickets fault the date was changed and the terms and 
conditions of the sale also make that clear. So I dont think  Barclaycard made a mistake or 
acted unfairly by concluding Ms H didnt have any S75 rights.
Ref: DRN82597322I appreciate Ms H says she didnt  receive the actual tickets. But Ive seen an e-mail that Ms H 
sent the ticket  seller  in which she told the seller  to try and resell  the tickets.  Im satisfied that in 
those circumstances  the ticket seller  didnt make a mistake and was following Ms Hs instructions.
Overall whilst I sympathise with Ms Hs position I dont think  Barclaycard has acted unfairly 
here and has tried to help Ms H as best as it could. For that reason I cant  fairly order  
Barclaycard to repay the money  Ms H spent on the tickets.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8259732