K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a Gold  Packaged 
Bank Account (PBA) in August 2011.  They say that Mr C was new to the UK at the time and 
vulnerable. They say they were  given the impression that taking the PBA would assist with 
his wish to both improve his credit score and ultimately become a British  citizen. They would 
like a refund  of all the account fees paid.
background
From the available records, it would appear  that Mr C opened a fee free current account with 
Lloyds in July 2007. He then appears  to have upgraded that to a Gold PBA in January  2011. 
In August  2011,  he and Mrs C opened  a joint Gold PBA,  which is the sale being complained 
about. I can see that Mr C, and later Mrs C, have held a wide range of banking products with 
Lloyds, including  various savings vehicles and at least one investment  product. The upgrade 
appears to have been part of a wider review,  with another  account being opened and 
possibly the downgrade  of Mr Cs sole PBA (although the latter isnt entirely clear).
In August  2011,  the Gold PBA cost £12 per month  and came with a range of benefits, the 
key ones being worldwide travel  insurance; car breakdown cover;  and mobile phone 
insurance.
Mr and Mrs C initially complained to Lloyds about this sale, and then came  to this service 
when they were unhappy with Lloyds response. Having ultimately agreed with Lloyds that 
this complaint was one we could look into, the adjudicator thought  that the PBA hadnt been  
mis-sold. Mr and Mrs C disagree, and asked an ombudsman to look at their case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to complaints 
about packaged bank accounts on our website, which  everyone  can read, and which  Ive 
used to help me decide the outcome in this case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
did Lloyds mislead  Mr and Mrs C into believing  that having the PBA would improve their 
credit score and assist with Mr Cs immigration  status?
As set out above, this is the main thrust of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Mr C has set out his 
vulnerability being new to the UK, highlighting that members of his community had 
a bad reputation , which  he wanted to avoid.  He says that they were:  
given the impression  that having  this account will help me with visa applications  
and my future citizenship application.
Its my job to decide what I think, on the balance of probabilities, is mostly to have happened,  
or be the case.  So whilst I of course cant be certain  what was said to Mr and Mrs C nearly  
eight years ago, there are several pieces  of evidence  which  overall lead me to conclude  it is 
unlikely both that Lloyds would have  misled them, or that Mr and Mrs C would have found 
any attempt along  those lines convincing. Although I do acknowledge, and indeed empathise 
with, Mr Cs feelings about discriminatory  attitudes  against members of his community.
Ref: DRN84682972Firstly, as pointed out by the adjudicator,  Mr C had already  been  banking with Lloyds for four 
years by the time this upgrade took place.  So I dont think  its likely that he was new to the 
UK or completely ignorant of the UK banking system in August 2011. I also note that he had 
various banking  products  before this PBA, such as an ISA and a separate savings account. 
This strongly  suggests to me a decent  understanding of financial matters  and the banking  
system. Mrs C held an account with another bank,  and was aware of the paperwork she 
would need to complete in order to have her salary paid into this Gold PBA instead.
Turning specifically to the issue of improving  credit score, I also dont think  its likely  that they 
would have believed  the type of current account would have had any influence in this regard. 
I say that because I can see notes of several  discussions between  Mr C and Lloyds in 2010 
on this topic, notably  these from July and September  2010  respectively:
Review held with customer,  wants cc [credit card] to build up credit score, but not 
eligible, has very good salary, seen  [credit]  report and nothing  on there to suggest 
why he can not [sic] have one
and
Spoke to cust re cc as he is now eligible, he managed  to get [another  provider] cc 
recently and therefore  does not want ours.
These notes show me that Mr C clearly did want to build a strong  credit  score;  that he knew 
that a key way to do so was to be granted credit; and that his credit  file was in good order.  
There is no mention here of the type of current account having any relevance, either  by Mr C 
or the Lloyds  representatives. So I dont think its likely that, having  explored this important 
issue and focused  sensibly on gaining credit, Mr and Mrs C would then be persuaded some  
months later that the way to build credit was to have a PBA. I also havent  been given any 
detailed or persuasive  testimony by Mr and Mrs C as to why they would believe having a 
Gold PBA would be seen  as relevant  by the UK immigration authorities when assessing a 
citizenship application, or indeed exactly how Lloyds staff misled them on that point. If they,  
in fact, reached that conclusion independently, then I cant hold Lloyds responsible for that.
Therefore, the evidence  leads me to find it is highly likely that Mr and Mrs C took this PBA 
willingly; knowing they didnt have to; and not because  they were  misled by Lloyds staff 
about credit  scores or immigration matters.
Lloyds accepts that it recommended the account to Mr and Mrs C, which  means it had to 
check it was a good fit with their needs  and circumstances.  So Ive gone on to consider that 
question.
was the Gold  PBA a good fit for Mr and Mrs C? And did Lloyds give them clear information?
Ive set out in the background section what the key benefits of this account were.  Mr C says 
that he received  travel  insurance through his work,  but I havent been told of any other  
duplicate cover. They agree that they travelled within Europe, and transactions  on 
statements suggest that at least Mr C also travelled further afield. They  accept that Mrs C 
used both the breakdown and the mobile  phone insurance, and both Mr and Mrs C 
registered handsets.
Ref: DRN84682973So overall, Ive not seen  anything to suggest  that Mr and Mrs C couldnt have used the key 
pieces of cover that came  with this PBA (indeed at least Mrs C actually did benefit from 
them). There may well have been  a problem with this sale, in that Lloyds quite possibly didnt 
give Mr and Mrs C clear information  about  all the elements  of the PBA.  But given my finding  
about the fact that they could have used, and did use some  of, the benefits of the account, I 
dont think better information  would have  put them off agreeing  to it.
Given that the evidence suggests  that Mr and Mrs C took this PBA knowing they didnt have 
to, and then benefited from it, I dont think  it was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds doesnt  need to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8468297