K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with her claim on her motor  
insurance policy when  it found that the person driving her car at the time of the accident 
wasnt insured to drive  it. 
background
Miss Rs car was damaged in an accident whilst  it was being driven by her partner. Miss R 
reported this to AXA and told it that he was uninsured. AXA said it would recover the car to a 
safe compound  and process the claim.  It later told Miss R that it wouldnt cover  her claim 
and she should  pick up her car from the recovery agent. But the agent had already sold the 
car for salvage  and Miss R lost her cherished  number plates. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He explained that 
Miss Rs partner wasnt covered to drive her car under her policy  and that he should contact 
his own insurer to see if he would  be covered.  
He thought AXA had caused  Miss R a loss as it should have told her when she reported the 
accident that it wouldnt provide cover and she should recover the car herself.  She could 
then have removed  the number plates  and sold the salvage. 
So the adjudicator recommended that AXA should reimburse Miss R for the salvage  amount, 
with interest, and act to either recover her plates or, if this wasnt possible, reimburse her for 
their cost. He also thought  AXA should pay Miss R £200 compensation for her trouble and 
upset.
Miss R said she was happy with the adjudicators view.  But AXA replied that it wouldnt 
agree to pay for a car when it hadnt made the decision  to sell or scrap it. It said the recovery  
agent was responsible for selling the car. It said it had the right to decline a claim.  But it 
thought it had given Miss R incorrect information and so it agreed to pay Miss R £200 
compensation. AXA asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its come  to me for 
a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Miss R was injured  in the accident. I hope her condition  has 
improved. I can see that Miss R accepted the adjudicators  explanation  of why AXA hadnt 
done anything  wrong by not covering her claim or approaching her partners  insurer  on her 
behalf. So Ill not consider  that further here.  
AXA said it didnt recover the car after the accident and didnt appoint any agent to do this. 
AXA said it didnt order the car to be scrapped.  And so it doesnt think its responsible  for the 
loss. But I dont agree. Ill now explain why I think this.
After the accident,  Miss Rs car was recovered by the police to a compound.  When  Miss R 
notified AXA of the accident, I think she was very clear that her partner didnt have insurance 
to drive her car. Miss R explained that the police  had written to her saying that the car 
needed to be moved.  She provided  the address of the compound to AXA. 
Ref: DRN85633952Yet instead  of telling  Miss R that it wouldnt cover the claim, AXA told her it would recover  
her car to a safe compound and process the claim. AXA explained  that due to the 
circumstances liability would likely be split. 
So Miss R was left thinking  her claim was being  dealt with and her car was in safe storage.  
But AXA didnt instruct a recovery of the car and as far as I can see it didnt  tell Miss R about 
its decision. Two months later,  when Miss R called for an update, it told her that it wouldnt 
cover the claim and she should  pick up her car. By that time it had been sold for salvage. 
So I think AXA caused Miss R prejudice and loss by misleading her and so depriving  her of 
the opportunity  to recover her car, retain  her number plates and sell the salvage.  I think  it 
should restore Miss Rs position by making good her losses and paying her compensation 
for the trouble and upset  it caused. The adjudicator recommended  that AXA should pay her 
£200 compensation. I think  this is fair and reasonable as its what  Id require in similar  
situations. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to do 
the following:
1.Find out and pay Miss R the salvage  cost the salvage agent paid to the recovery agent,  
adding interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of notification of the claim to the 
date of settlement.
2.HM Revenue & Customs  requires AXA to withhold income  tax from that interest. It must 
give Miss R a certificate showing how much its taken off if she asks for one.
3.Advise Miss R on how to recover her registration plates or, if this recovery isnt possible,  
pay her for their cost,  subject to reasonable evidence of this.
4.Pay Miss R £200  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8563395