K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading  as Sunny)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about an open-ended credit facility  and four high-cost short-term credit 
instalment loans. Sunny provided  the open-ended credit facility in March 2013 and Mr Ws 
final instalment loan was provided in April 2015. Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint 
and thought he shouldnt have been  provided with any further  credit  on the open-ended  
credit facility from the eigth drawdown  in May 2014  and the fourth instalment loan. Sunny 
didnt agree with our adjudicators assessment. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr W, I think  that Sunny should  
reasonably have seen that Mr W was unlikely to have been able to make  his payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided the eigth drawdown on the open-ended  credit 
facility and the fourth instalment loan.  
I say this because  by this stage, it ought to have  been  apparent to Sunny  that Mr Ws use of 
his open-ended facility  suggested that there was no reasonable  prospect of him clearing the 
balance within a reasonable  period of time.  And it also ought to have been apparent  from his 
repayment history, which Sunny ought  to have been monitoring that Mr W may well have  
been relying on the facility and borrowing further  to make his payments. 
Ref: DRN87374982Sunny then transitioned Mr W from a facility which its own product literature said shouldnt 
be used for extended  periods to a series of instalment loans which  had the same effect.     
And by the time of instalment loan 4 Mr W then exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out 
further loans not too long after repaying previous ones. Sunny continued lending to Mr W 
despite this and in circumstances where  it ought reasonably  to have realised  that any further  
credit was more likely than not unsustainable for him. 
Mr W had to pay interest and charges on credit that Sunny shouldnt  have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on his open-ended credit  facility from       
31 May 2014 to 26 September  2014;
remove all interest and charges added to instalment loan 4 from the outset. The 
payments Mr W has made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments  Mr W has already made  exceed  the amount he was lent any extra 
should be treated  as overpayments  and refunded to Mr W. If after all adjustments 
have been made Mr W still has an outstanding  balance Sunny can deduct  this from 
what it now needs to pay Mr W.   
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges and 
overpayments (should there be any),  from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr W compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8737498