K820x#14complaint
L, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC closed its account without notice and 
registered a CIFAS marker against  the account.  
background
Mr A is the director of the company  and has brought the complaint on behalf  of L. Following 
a review of the account, Lloyds sent an account  closure letter to L on 18 December 2018.  
This gave  60 days notice that the account  would be closed in line with its terms and 
conditions. A CIFAS  marker was recorded  but following  a complaint from L, this was 
removed on 18 January 2019.  Lloyds  accepts it made an error and that it shouldnt have 
registered the CIFAS  marker. It offered £500  compensation for any inconvenience  suffered 
as a result  of the marker  being on the account for approximately one month.  
Mr A says there was a block on all his personal  and business UK accounts due to Lloyds 
error, his credit  rating  was affected, and he was unable to open any new accounts. Lloyds 
say that as the indicator  has been removed, Mr A would be able to apply to open other 
accounts on behalf of L. Mr A remained unhappy  with the response  from Lloyds and brought 
his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think  Lloyds had done anything  wrong  
in relation to the account closure. She found  that the error in registering the CIFAS marker  
was put right quickly and thought £500 compensation was reasonable as the marker was 
only registered for a month. 
Mr A didnt agree and said this matter has caused  him a great deal of stress. And so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
It isnt unusual for banks  to review accounts and decide who to continue offering facilities  to 
 this is a decision  which banks are entitled to make. I appreciate Mr A is unhappy with the 
banks decision but the bank has acted  in line with its terms and conditions and gave enough 
notice before closing  the account.
Mr A says we havent considered the impact on him but I can only consider the 
inconvenience caused to the business as the complaint can only be brought on behalf of L. I 
cant consider Mr As personal  bank accounts in my decision.
Mr A says he was refused  banking facilities elsewhere but I havent seen any evidence 
which suggests that Lloyds actions following the removal  of the CIFAS marker, caused any 
problems for L. 
Its unfortunate that the bank registered  a CIFAS marker incorrectly but it confirmed  that this 
was removed in January  2019 and so following  this date,  this shouldnt have impacted Ls 
ability to get another account.  
Ref: DRN83565422Lloyds offered £500 compensation for any inconvenience caused as a result  of the error. I 
consider £500  is reasonable  for the time the marker  remained against  the account.  And so 
Im not asking Lloyds  to do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8356542