K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) has not properly investigated and 
contested third-party  damage claims against her policy following a vehicle collision.
background
Ms D reported her vehicles collision with a stationary vehicle to CIS. She told it she didnt 
want to claim  for the damage shed caused to her own insured vehicle.
CIS says it told Ms D that it would settle the third-party drivers claim, which it did.
Ms D complained to CIS, saying that shed expected it to consult her before it paid for the 
third-party vehicles damage.
CISs final response letter said that it wouldnt  have  suggested that it would consult Ms D 
over the settlement of her claim before settling it. And that its engineers would have 
highlighted to it any concerns over the damage caused by the collision  shes described to it 
and the repairs  that followed.
Ms D complained to us, saying that CIS failed to investigate  her suspicions that the collision 
had not caused all the damage it had paid for.
An investigator thought CIS had enough  information  to decide the claim and make the 
payment. But she also thought some  damage had been repaired that didnt appear to be Ms 
Ds fault. She suggested CIS should  compensate  Ms D for the distress and inconvenience  
this part of the repair had caused  her, and thought  £100 was fair.
But CIS didnt agree  that any compensation was due to Ms D as it felt it had acted 
appropriately. And Ms D thought CIS was wrong to pay the claim without more investigation. 
Both Ms D and CIS asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Although I can see the investigator has explained to Ms D what  I can look at in this 
complaint, I think its useful to restate  it. I cant decide which party  is liable for a vehicle 
collision. Thats the role of the insurers and their agents, or the courts. And I cant decide  on 
any potential criminal behaviour or allegations  of criminal behaviour. Those too would be a 
matter for the courts. But I can decide whether an insurer made a fair and reasonable 
decision about a claim based on the evidence it had available to it.
Its in this light that Ive carefully looked  at this case.
Once Ms D had told CIS about  the collision, CIS told her that it would settle  the third-partys 
claim, as her policy required it to do. CIS acted fairly  and responsibly when it told Ms D it 
would settle the claim.    
Ref: DRN88135722Ive looked at the evidence CIS had available to make its decision about  the claim.  Ive seen 
a number of clear and informative  photographs supplied  by both Ms D and the third-partys 
vehicles repairer.  Ive also read the description of the collision from Ms D.
CIS has considered  the only description of the collision it has, from Ms D. And it appears to 
have used that information along with its engineers report of the damage caused, and the 
vehicle repairers  detailed assessment of the repair  work required, to make its decision. CIS 
has accepted  that Ms D was liable for the collision. It has also accepted  the damage 
described by the repairer in his report  a report accepted and approved by CISs engineer  
was caused by the collision. And it has accepted the invoice for the repairs  needed.  I cant  
say that with the information available to it, CIS has reached an unreasonable or unfair 
decision that it should pay for the damage  caused by the collision. 
But I can see the photos show an area on the third-partys car prepared  for painting that 
does appear to be outside the area of impact. And I can see that our investigator  asked  CIS 
to explain why this appears to have been repaired as part of the collision damage repair.  In 
its reply,  CIS has said that an area higher on the bodywork panel near the door handle  was 
prepared for painting due to a poor finish and imperfections in the old paint finish. 
Whilst it may have been the repairers preference  to correct those imperfections in the old 
paint finish, I dont think its fair that CIS should pay for it. And I understand how Ms D might 
be frustrated that CIS may have paid for damage  she feels  shes not responsible for.
Ive thought about how CIS should compensate  Ms D.
On balance, I think the £100  the investigator recommended CIS pay to Ms D fairly reflects  
the distress and inconvenience  Ms D has suffered from CIS paying for repairs to an area of 
the third-partys car not involved  in the collision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ds complaint. To settle  it, CIS General  Insurance  
Limited should take the steps outlined above, which for clarity are:
Pay Ms D £100  for distress and inconvenience  caused by paying for a repair  to an 
area unaffected by the collision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Adrian Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8813572