K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined his claim for repair  of his boiler 
when he feels his home emergency  policy should have covered this.
All references to IPA include its agents  which includes the business the investigator referred 
to in his correspondence
background
Mr F took out a home emergency policy  as an add-on to his home  insurance  policy  with 
another provider  in June 2018. The home emergency part of the policy is underwritten by 
IPA. Later that year Mr F had problems with his boiler. He contacted his home emergency 
provider who sent out an engineer, Mr F says the engineer told him it would cost about £500  
to put right.  Mr F didnt hear further  and when  he contacted the insurer again he was told the 
boiler repairs werent covered as the boiler was beyond  economic repair  (BER) so his claim 
was declined. 
Mr F complained to his insurer  about  this and says he was offered £150; he declined this as 
he felt he should  be entitled to the £500 repair costs.  He later saw that £50 had been  put into 
his bank account. When Mr F phoned up to query  this the insurer told him it had looked into 
his complaint and under  the policy terms repair or replacement of boilers declared to be 
beyond economic repair isnt covered so it didnt  uphold his complaint. But IPA had paid him 
£50 for the delay  in responding to his complaint. Mr F wasnt happy with this so brought his 
complaint to us. 
IPA said that the policy specifically  excluded  boilers that are uneconomical to repair,  so this 
was the correct decision. 
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Fs complaint  should  be upheld.  He said that insurance isnt 
there to cover  all eventualities  and under  the policy boilers beyond  economic repair  arent 
covered by the policy so he didnt think the insurer  needed to do anything more.  He thought 
the £50 for the delay in getting back to Mr F was also fair. 
Mr F didnt  agree with this, he felt that the policy terms covered complete failure of the 
heating system, so he didnt understand how his repairs  wouldnt be covered. He didnt feel 
the cost of the repair should alter the fact that the heating system had failed. He 
acknowledged the exclusion clause but said if the boiler cant be repaired, then that must be 
a failure of the heating system  which the policy should cover.  He also confirmed that he was 
originally told that it would be less than £500 to repair. 
As Mr F didnt agree the case has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at the policy Mr F had with IPA, and I can see that complete breakdown  
of the heating system  is an insured  event   ie this is something that the policy  covers. But 
the cover  is subject to policy terms or exclusions.  In this circumstance the relevant exclusion 
clause that IPA relied on was repair or replacement  of boilers declared as Beyond  
Ref: DRN81212162Economical Repair by their third party contractor.  So what I need  to decide is whether IPA 
acted reasonably in applying  that exclusion clause. 
I looked at the definition  of BER in Mr Fs policy. This says it is where we estimate that the 
cost of repairing  your primary heating and/or hot water system would be more  than its 
current value or that we are unable to obtain spare  parts  to repair  it. 
I think in order to decide if IPA can fairly rely on the exclusion term it needed  to have looked 
at the estimated costs to repair the boiler and an estimate of the current value  of Mr Fs 
boiler at the time including the make and model  and the fact that the boiler wasnt brand 
new. Ive seen evidence  from IPA showing the estimated  costs  of repairing the boiler and 
this shows this to be over £1000, and combining this with the details of Mr Fs boiler at the 
time, I think that on balance it is reasonable for IPA to rely on this policy exclusion as it 
considered the cost of repairing the boiler  to be more than its current  value. So I dont think  
IPA needs to cover the repair costs. 
Mr F has said that he was initially told that it would cost less than £500  to repair his boiler. 
However, IPAs claim notes confirm that it was shortly after Mr F had made  his claim that it 
was confirmed to him that the boiler was beyond economic repair.  Overall,  my view is that 
IPAs estimate of the repair  costs being  over £1,000  was a reasonable one. 
But I dont think IPA was very clear  with Mr F about the reasons for declining the claim  
including Mr F believing the boiler was repairable by the first engineer. I think  IPA could have 
explained how it came  to that conclusion at the time,  including  sending Mr F the relevant  
costs information.   
Ive sent Mr F the costings report and the details  IPA had about  Mr Fs boiler at the time, so 
he could comment,  because I think those pieces of information are directly relevant  to  
deciding if IPA were fair. 
I suggested to both parties  that IPA should pay £150 for the inconvenience he was put to 
through not being clear  at the time about  the reasons for declining the claim.  IPA has agreed 
this. Mr F hasnt  commented. 
So carefully considering everything in this case,  I think that it is reasonable that IPA declined 
Mr Fs claim for his repairs to his boiler, but I think it could have been much  clearer in 
explaining why it had taken this decision,  so for this reason I award  Mr F £150 for the 
inconvenience caused. This is in addition to the £50 he has already been paid. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, I require Inter Partner Assistance SA 
to pay Mr F £150 compensation. This is in addition to the £50 he has already received. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Clare Barker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8121216