K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Canada Square Operations Limited  mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr C took out the card and PPI in July 2000  via an internet  application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mr C says that he would not knowingly have taken  out PPI. Mr C applied  for the credit card 
online. Weve  seen copies of the web pages  that Mr C would have  seen during the 
application process. There was a page for PPI and Mr C would have needed to select  either  
a yes or no option to request or decline the policy. These options have equal  prominence 
and neither has been pre-selected. Therefore I consider that Mr C would have  understood 
from the wording and layout of the page  that the PPI was optional. There  was also a link to 
the terms and conditions. The application  process couldnt be progressed until an applicant  
had selected either  yes or no. Canada Square  has provided a copy  of Mr Cs application 
report which recorded the answers that he gave  and this shows  that he chose the yes 
option for PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr Cs recollection of the 
sale has faded. Looking  at the available  evidence, it seems to me that he decided to take out 
the policy, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Canada Square  didnt advise Mr C to buy the policy, so it didnt  need  to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide him with enough  information to make an informed decision 
about whether  or not it was right for him.
Mr Cs employer would have given  him six months full pay, followed by six months  half pay, 
if he was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer  than Mr C would have received full pay for.
Mr C may have  had some  savings. But the policy would  have  allowed him to retain any 
savings or use them  to cover other outgoings  at what would have been a difficult time. Mr C 
has said that his family  could have helped, but other people cant always be relied upon as 
their circumstances can change. Overall  I think that Mr C had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted  from it.
Its possible that Canada  Square didnt provide as much information about  the policy as it 
should have, particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Mr C wasnt affected by any 
Ref: DRN81685042of those things.  As I think that he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind.
This means  that Canada Square  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. 
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
When the policy was sold,  Canada Square  expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about 
that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Mr C has said that Canada Square was required to send annual reminders setting out how 
much had been paid for the PPI, the type of cover held and a reminder of cancellation rights.  
However this requirement didnt  come into effect until 2011,  two years after Mr C had 
cancelled the credit card. And in this decision I have only looked at whether the policy was 
mis-sold in 2000.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Canada Square Operations Limited  does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8168504