K821x#15complaint
Miss O says Western  Circle  Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent instalment loans to 
her.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Cashfloat provided  to Miss O between 
October 2015 and March  2016. Miss Os lending  history is as follows:
Loan 1, 12 October  2015 for £400  to be repaid in three monthly  instalments with the 
highest being £180.18, and repaid  on time.  
Loan 2, 11 January  2016 for £200 to be repaid in two monthly  instalments with the 
highest being £124.77, and repaid  on time.  
Loan 3, 8 March 2016  for £250 to be repaid in two monthly  instalments  with the 
highest being £156.63. This loan was repaid late. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Os complaint and thought all the loans shouldnt  have been 
given. Cashfloat  didnt respond  to the adjudicators view and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss O could  repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN84573362I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Miss O could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Os complaint. Cashfloat carried  out a credit  check 
for each  of Miss Os loans. It also asked her about her monthly income and outgoings. 
As our adjudicator explained, the credit checks for loans  one to three showed  that Miss O 
was having problems managing her money because:
She had recent defaults on her accounts,  including one a month before her first loan 
application;
She had an active County Court Judgement; 
This situation continued for all Miss Os loans and she continued  to take out new 
loans. 
Because of this, I think Cashfloat should have realised that Miss O would be unable to 
sustainably repay  any of her loans.  And so I think it was wrong to approve them. 
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss O paid on loans one to three
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans one to three from Miss Os credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im upholding Miss Os complaint. I 
require Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) to pay Miss O compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8457336