K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK plc has sold and securitised her loan without her 
consent. She says Santanders actions are fraudulent and would like its actions investigated.
background
Mrs P took out a Santander loan in 2010. She says that Santander has sold her loan to a 
number of other companies and those actions are fraudulent. Mrs P would  like this matter to 
be investigated and for Santander to explain its actions.
Santander says its not sold or securitised Mrs P loan. But it says the loan terms and 
conditions do allow it to transfer or assign the agreement if it wished to do so.
Mrs P brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt think there  was any evidence  
Santander had sold or securitised the loan. But she thought it could do so if it wished,  in line 
with the loan terms and conditions.
Mrs P doesnt accept that view and has asked that an ombudsman  review it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise that Mrs P will be disappointed  
by my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the loan agreement, which  I can see that Mrs P 
agreed to when it was taken out. And Im satisfied that those  say that Santander  may assign  
or transfer  the agreement without Mrs Ps consent. So I think that Santander is entitled under 
that agreement  to assign or transfer  it if it wishes.
But Santander says it hasnt taken those steps in Mrs Ps case, and Ive not seen any 
evidence from Mrs P that it has. I appreciate  shes  sent us documents  about  this issue, but I 
dont agree that they demonstrate that her loan has been sold,  securitised or transferred. So 
Im satisfied that Santander still owns Mrs Ps debt.
I appreciate that Mrs P may believe that if a loan has been securitised then the lender has 
been paid in full and so a borrower  is under no obligation to make any further repayments to 
the lender. But I must make it clear  that I dont think that is correct. and that recent court  
decisions confirm this. 
But, for the reasons Ive explained  I dont think this loan has been securitised in any event. I 
cant say that Santander  UK plc did anything wrong,  and so I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Ref: DRN80401792David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8040179