K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about how long it took for Nationwide Building  Society  to provide him with an 
account statement  he could use for proving identity.
background
Mr T says he asked  Nationwide  for an account  statement to use for proof  of identity. He says 
he originally received a black  and white copy before complaining to Nationwide.  Mr T says 
he then received a colour statement as a gesture of goodwill. He says he should have 
received the colour copy as part of a reasonable service not as a gesture  of goodwill and 
Nationwides procedures  do not meet the standards of the Money Laundering Regulations 
2017. Mr T says the delay  was unreasonable and would like Nationwide  to review  paperless 
accounts.
Nationwide doesnt  accept making  a mistake and says its policy is in these circumstances to 
issue a black and white statement. It says that should be suitable for identification purposes 
and has told Mr T that he can take that copy into a branch and it will stamp  and authenticate 
it.
Mr T brought  his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. She thought  Mr T had asked  
for a statement  for identification on 8 January 2019 and didnt think a black and white  copy 
was particularly useful.  The investigator thought Mr T finally received the colour copy  after 
15 February 2019 and recommended Nationwide pay Mr T £50 for the inconvenience and 
poor communication.
Nationwide didnt accept  that view and says Mr T didnt ask for a colour  copy in his original  
request.
Mr T does  accept  that view but says Nationwide wrote to him twice  while  it investigated his 
complaint telling him it was still investigating  it when  it could have just sent him the colour 
statement. He would  also like Nationwide to remove certain information on its website about 
the business.
The investigator reconsidered her view and came to the same  overall  conclusions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Nationwide  could have handled this complaint  differently and so it should pay Mr T 
the £50 compensation the investigator  recommended.
Ive looked at Mr Ts request for the statement and Im satisfied he didnt  ask for a colour 
copy. So I dont  think Nationwide made  a mistake or acted unfairly  by following its policy  and 
sending Mr T a black and white copy. I also make  it clear to Mr T that we are not the 
regulator of banks and building societies  and so I cant fairly  tell a business  what  its policies 
and procedures should be on this type of issue. I also think that its up to Mr T to provide 
information to other  organisations  to satisfy money  laundering  regulations.  And I dont think 
Nationwide can be responsible for the format those  organisations require documents to be 
in.
Ref: DRN85535712I can see that when  Mr T received the account statement from Nationwide  he contacted it 
and asked it for a colour copy and provided  more detail about why it was needed. I think at 
that stage Nationwide ought  to have either  provided  a colour copy or explained to Mr T that 
he could take the black and white copy into a branch  for it to be authenticated. I dont think 
Nationwide needed  to deal with Mr Ts complaint first before providing that information. Im 
satisfied it should  have been  clear  what Mr T wanted and why at that stage. And just 
because a complaint  had been raised,  that shouldnt have prevented  Nationwide  being able 
to provide Mr T with that information.
So Ive come to the overall conclusion that there  was a delay in Mr T either receiving the 
statement in colour  or information about what he needed to do with the black and white 
copy. For that reason I agree that Mr T was caused  some inconvenience and so Nationwide  
should pay £50 compensation.
I appreciate Mr T would like Nationwide to amend or remove information that it records about 
itself on its website and generally review  paperless  accounts. For the reasons  Ive explained 
Im not able to order Nationwide to do so as we are not the regulator of Nationwide.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr T compensation of £50
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8553571