K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) has accepted responsibility for the sale and this complaint.
So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
background
Mrs M applied for a store card in November 1997. At the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy. 
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs M no more  than £1 per £100 of the monthly  outstanding  balance. 
It wouldve  paid a monthly benefit  of 15% of the outstanding balance if Mrs M was unable to 
work due to ill-health,  an accident or if she lost her job. This would continue until either     
Mrs M returned  to work or the balance was cleared. The policy  was cancelled  in April 2001.  
Between November  1997 and April 2001 Mrs M was charged in total £224.81 in PPI 
premiums.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.
Mrs M didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have  happened,  taking  into account  the evidence available,  what   both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs M that the PPI was optional. Mrs M recalls being  told that 
she had to take the PPI in order to obtain the store card. Ive thought about this.
Mrs M applied for the store card using a leaflet most likely given to her while  shopping. 
FICL has shown us a copy of the original store card application form. I can see that there is 
a section on the form headed,  Payment & Purchase  Protection. Within  this section is a brief 
description of the cover  followed  by a statement that reads:
Yes, I want my account covered by Payment and Purchase Protection  Insurance (subject to 
eligibility). Please  debit  my account with the relevant monthly premium until further  notice.
Beside this statement there is a box which has been  ticked. There  is nothing on the 
application form that implies the PPI was necessary to obtain the credit.
Ref: DRN87023532There are other options on the form which have been crossed  through  such  as the option  to 
purchase a plan to protect against fraudulent use of the card. 
I dont know who completed the application  form and it may have been a member  of the 
store staff.  But even  if it had been,  I think it would likely have been completed with Mrs Ms 
input as it includes personal information such as her telephone number and next of kin. And I 
can see the application has been  signed  by Mrs M.
I accept it is possible Mrs M was told she had to take the PPI. But after taking everything into 
account I think FICL most  likely  made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this after more 
than 20 years.
  
I dont think FICL advised Mrs M to take the policy out. So it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for her. But FICL did have to give Mrs M clear  information  so 
that she could  make a choice about whether or not to take the policy  out.
Its possible that FICL didnt give all the information  it should have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mrs M would have 
changed her mind about buying the policy if she had been given better  or clearer  
information. I cant say she would have done.  I say this because.
Mrs M was eligible for the PPI based  on her circumstances at the time of the sale. So 
shed have been able to make a claim if she needed  to.
If Mrs M couldnt  work due to ill-health the policy  wouldve  paid out 15% of her 
outstanding balance every month until the balance had been paid off or she returned  
to work. And it wouldve  paid the same benefit  if Mrs M lost her job. 
 
Mrs M couldnt  be certain of the details but has said her employer wouldve paid her 
sick pay if she couldnt work.  But the policy would pay any benefit in addition to her 
sick pay. And potentially for longer than her full sick pay would last. The policy 
wouldve also meant Mrs M wouldnt  need to use her savings to make  the monthly  
repayments. From the application  form I think she was interested in the cover it 
provided. So I still think Mrs M wouldve  found the policy  useful if things went  wrong.
The policy had some exclusions  and restrictive terms. But Mrs M wasnt affected by 
these. For instance Mrs M has told us she didnt have any medical  conditions  at the 
time of the sale which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything  into account I think its likely Mrs M was made aware  the PPI was 
optional and chose  to add it to her account.  And I think that even if Mrs M had been  given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead  and bought it. 
I understand Mrs M has had complaints about other  PPI policies upheld.  There are many  
different types  of PPI policy and many variations in the way they were sold and their cost.    
In this decision I have  only looked  at the way FICL sold this particular PPI to Mrs M. Having 
done so I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Mrs M.  
Ref: DRN87023533my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Financial Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8702353