K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay. He asks for a fair refund to help him get back  on his feet financially.
background
Mr T took out 13 loans  and several top up loans with Quick  Quid  between  November 2015 
and October 2017.  He says he had a low income and debt problems and was taking out 
loans with other short term lenders.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He said it wasnt 
wrong for Quick Quid to offer loans 1 to 9. The adjudicator said thered been  a break in 
Mr Ts borrowing that suggested he wasnt reliant  on these loans. But it shouldnt have 
offered loans 10 to 13 to Mr T. By this time,  Mr Ts pattern  of borrowing suggested hed 
become reliant  on the loans and his borrowing  wasnt sustainable.
Quick Quid didnt agree. It said the amounts Mr T borrowed varied,  there were breaks of one 
month between loans and Mr T repaid loans early.  Quick Quid  said there was nothing  to 
indicate Mr T was unable to sustain  repayments. It asked for evidence about  Mr Ts financial 
circumstances when  he took out the loans to show it should  have  known hed struggle to 
repay the loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ts income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages  of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
loans 1 to 4 (November 2015 to February 2016)
Mr T took out four loans  between  November  2015 and February 2016. These  loans required 
repayments of between about  £250  and £520.
Mr T told Quick Quid his monthly income  was about £1,350 and his monthly outgoings were 
£575. Quick Quid  says it did credit checks and the information it received didnt suggest any 
problems. I dont think Quick Quid had any reason to think these  loans werent affordable or 
that further checks were  needed.
loans 5 to 9 (September 2016 to March 2017)
Mr T repaid loan 4 in February 2016. He didnt borrow from Quick Quid again until 
September 2016 and loan 5 was for a smaller amount than the previous loan. I dont  think at 
this point Quick  Quid  had reason to think that Mr S was becoming reliant on its loans. 
Ref: DRN89182542Loans 5 to 9 required repayments  of between about  £130 and £510. Mr T told Quick Quid  
his monthly income  was about £1,350 and his outgoings were £575.  Quick Quid says it did 
credit checks and the information  it received  didnt  suggest any problems. I dont think  Quick 
Quid had any reason to think these loans werent  affordable.
loans 10 to 13 (April 2017 to October  2017)
I think when Mr T asked  for loan 10 Quick  Quid should have realised further lending was 
unsustainable. By this time, Mr T had been  borrowing from Quick Quid for more than seven 
months without a significant break.  The amounts of the loans increased from £100 (loan 5) 
to £650 (loan  10). The second  repayment for loan 10 (£795)  was a significant proportion  of 
Mr Ts monthly  income.
When Mr T topped up loan 13 for the second  time hed been borrowing from Quick Quid  for 
more than a year without  a significant  break. Hed taken  out nine loans and several top up 
loans during that time. Mr T didnt  always take out a new loan immediately. But I dont think  
any of the breaks  between these loans were enough  for Quick Quid to reasonably believe 
his finances had improved. 
While Quick Quid says Mr T repaid loans early  I dont think this means the loans were  
sustainable. For instance, he repaid loan 9 early,  on 23 March  2017. But he took out loan 10 
on 1 April 2017, less than 10 days later. I think Quick Quid ought  to have realised Mr T was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the gap in his finances left by repaying his previous loan. In 
the circumstances, I dont think it was reasonable for Quick Quid  to believe hed be able to 
set money aside to help meet the larger, last repayment. I dont think  this borrowing was 
sustainable.
The amounts Mr T borrowed varied. Loan 11 was smaller than loan 10. But Mr T topped  up 
loan 11 and incurred  late fees. He also topped up loans 12 and 13, borrowing £450 and 
£700 respectively.  Mr T wasnt  making a consistent  reduction in his use of these loans. 
The loans offered by Quick Quid  were  intended for short term use. But Mr T didnt make  any 
real inroads  into the amount he owed  Quick Quid.  In effect,  he paid large  amounts  of interest 
to service a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended period. 
So Im upholding  Mr Ts complaint about loan 10 and the later loans and top ups. Quick Quid 
should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loan 10 and the later loans and top ups;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all entries about  loan 10 and the later loans and top ups from Mr Ts credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN89182543my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order CashEuroNet UK LLC to take the steps 
and pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8918254