K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
September 1999. Ms A says Canada Square  Operations Limited (Egg) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think its likely Egg made it clear that Ms A didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out. I say this because, based on what  I know about  Eggs  online 
application process, I think its likely that it was made clear that PPI was optional and 
that Ms A could proceed with the credit card application without having  to select  it  
although I can understand if Ms A cant remember this as it did take place many 
years ago.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Ms A so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms A got the information she needed to decide  if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Ms A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, on balance  it seems that she chose  to take out the PPI - so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, include what Ms A has told us about her employment 
circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. So I think it would  have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
All of which means  Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms A. But Egg 
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms A because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms A about that. Because Egg didnt tell Ms A, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has basically offered to pay back  the amount  of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms A has said - including what  she said about  the onus being 
on the business to be able to prove  that she agreed to take out PPI. However, as it was sold 
many years ago, I dont think its surprising or unreasonable  if Egg is unable  to provide a 
copy of the completed  PPI application form. In situations like these, I have  to weigh up what  I 
think was likely to have  happened based on what Ms A has said as well as any information  
Ref: DRN86197782that is available.  And having done  so I think  its more  likely that Ms A did agree to take out 
PPI, rather than it being the case  that it was added to her credit  card without her knowledge. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Egg has to pay back to Ms A any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  Egg should also pay back to Ms A any extra interest  she paid because 
of that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Ms A the difference between 
what Ms A owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share  it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should also pay Ms A 8%* simple interest if she 
paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms A can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms A.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Ms A, if it hasnt done so 
already, any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8619778