K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined his home insurance claim for storm 
damage to his dormer  flat roof. 
background
Mr W made a claim under his home  insurance  policy in February  2019  following a storm in 
which the felt covering  to the roof of his dormer lifted off. Ageas appointed  a loss adjuster 
who attended to inspect the damage,  taking photographs of the damage using a monopod  
(camera on a pole). 
The loss adjuster reported to Ageas and said that the flat felt roof covering was at least 
20 years  old and showed evidence of previous standing water.  No damage to the flat roofs 
of neighbouring properties  was visible. The loss adjusters view was that the damage was 
caused by wear and tear and it was recommended  that the claim was declined.  
After Ageas  declined his claim, Mr W complained.  Ageas  looked  into Mr Ws complaint but 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.  It said there  was a policy  exclusion for damage  
caused by wear and tear. Unhappy with Ageass  findings, Mr W complained  to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld  
because he didnt think the claim had been unfairly declined by Ageas. 
Mr W disagreed  with our investigators findings and provided a report from the roofer hed 
used to repair the roof. The roofer said the cause of the problem was the severe weather. 
Mr W also said hed had the main  roof of his house  repaired relatively  recently and if the 
dormer roof had been in bad condition  then he wouldve had it replaced at the same  time. He 
said, if that had been  the case, he wouldve expected his roofer to have mentioned it at the 
time but he hadnt.  Finally he said hed had his dormer  roof altered in the past so that it had 
a slight slope which allowed water  to drain off. So he thought the loss adjusters view that 
there was evidence of past water pooling which had contributed  to the damage  must be 
wrong. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but wasnt  persuaded by what  Mr W had said 
to change his mind. Mr W disagreed with our investigator and said again that his roof had a 
slope and he didnt  know if the loss adjuster had been aware of the fact. So he was worried  
the loss adjuster might have assumed his roof was flat. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only the damage  
caused by one of the one-off perils (or events)  listed in the policy will be covered. If the 
damage can be shown  to be so caused  then the insurer must pay the claim unless it able to 
rely on one of the policy exclusions  to decline it.
Ref: DRN84662942Here, Mr Ws home was damaged in a storm so he made a claim to Ageas. Ageas has 
declined the claim  by relying on the exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear. I have to 
decide whether  I think Ageas has relied fairly  and reasonably on this exclusion to decline 
Mr Ws claim and, with regret for any disappointment it will cause  Mr W, I have to say that I 
think it has. Ill explain why. 
As Mr W is aware,  when considering complaints about storm damage claims, this service 
asks three  questions: 
1.Is there evidence of a storm event  on or around  the time the damage  was caused?
2.Is the damage claimed  for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm?
3.Was the storm the main cause  of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld. As there was a single identifiable storm the answer  to 
question 1 is yes. A felt being torn off a roof is consistent with the type of damage that can 
be caused by a storm. So the answer  to question 2 is yes as well. So the main focus of 
Ageass findings  has been on question 3. It says that the main  cause  of the damage to the 
roof is wear and tear not the storm that occurred around the time Mr W discovered the 
damage. 
The storm would need to be the dominant  cause of the damage to Mr Ws roof for me to 
recommend that his complaint be upheld.  Unfortunately  for him, the evidence Ive seen 
doesnt reasonably allow  me to conclude that it was. 
There are two expert views about  the damage  that Ive seen. The first is from Ageass loss 
adjuster. Ive reviewed  the photographs he took and they are very clear (I note that they 
were taken from the ground with the use of a monopod). Loss adjusters  are very 
experienced in assessing  damage caused by storms. So I cant  reasonably  ignore the 
comments the loss adjuster made  or the photographs he took, which  do seem to support the 
comments. He noted  that the roof had been  lifted up due to the general breakdown  of the 
roof materials. It is this, he notes, that allowed the roof to be peeled back. It was also noted 
that the roof was at least 20 years  old. The photographs  appear to support this to be the 
case. 
The loss adjuster noted evidence of previous standing  water (owing to the presence of green 
algae) on the roof surface.  Again, the photographs  would  appear to support this comment.  
Whilst I note that Mr W had the main roof replaced,  and that he comments  he wouldve had 
the flat roof replaced too if itd been  in bad condition, it seems from the evidence Ive seen 
that the roofing felt had come to the end of its useful life. And it was the fact it had that meant 
damage occurred  during  the storm. A roof in good  condition wouldve been able to withstand  
the recorded wind speed on the night in question   as can be seen from the fact none  of 
Mr Ws neighbours roofs were damaged. 
Mr W has said that he did, at some  point, have the roof altered so it sloped. He says that 
water couldnt have pooled as a result. But I can also see from the photographs that there 
are green patches  of algae  that the loss adjuster, not unreasonably, says shows  evidence of 
standing water. Roof felt typically  only has a lifespan of 10-15 years  before it needs 
replacing and it seems,  from the evidence, that the felt on Mr Ws roof had reached the end 
of its useful life and that the storm had highlighted the damage rather than caused it. 
Ref: DRN84662943I have considered what Mr Ws roofer  said about  the damage but I dont find it to be as 
detailed or persuasive  as the comments made by the loss adjuster. He just says that its his 
view that the cause of the problem was the severe  weather.  But he doesnt  say any more 
than that to explain why that is his view. The severe weather certainly highlighted the 
problem with the roof but Im unable to agree that it was the dominant cause of it such  that 
would allow me to make Ageas accept Mr Ws claim.
Ive noted Mr Ws comments  that he doesnt think its fair that the loss adjuster  either  took 
the age of the roof or the lack of damage to neighbouring properties into account. The loss 
adjuster commented  on the roofs age to support his conclusion that it was wear and tear  
and not the storm   that had caused  the damage. And loss adjusters will often look at other 
properties in the vicinity to gauge if they too may have been damaged. I dont think  the loss 
adjusters action were  unreasonable in this respect.  
So, for the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold this complaint as I dont  think  that Mr Ws 
claim was unfairly or unreasonably declined by Ageas. Thats because the evidence 
suggests that the damage to Mr Ws roof, whilst  highlighted by a storm event, wasnt caused  
by it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8466294