K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  about Legal  & General Insurance Limited and its rejection of her claim.  
background
Ms B holds a household policy with L & G. She was burgled and made a claim under that 
policy. The policy  contains a requirement  that her doors and windows be locked.  L & G took 
the view, after she was visited by a locksmith,  that Ms B hadnt locked her door, so her cover 
was invalid. Ms B complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and at first thought the exclusion applied.  
After further thought they didnt agree that L & G had done enough to prove the 
circumstances of the claim should be excluded and so asked them to reconsider it. As no 
agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
This is very much a one issue complaint. Its accepted a burglary  took place, and that Ms Bs 
policy excludes claims where doors are left unlocked. So, I have to decide if L & G have 
proven that the door in question was unlocked. I dont think they have. 
Ms B has been clear from the start that she locked the door in question. I have  no reason to 
doubt her testimony.  I have also considered  the reports  I have  from the two contractors sent 
to see her, and neither of those is conclusive over the locking issue.  Both say there is little 
damage to the door, but that is what you might expect if a lock had been  picked rather than 
smashed or snapped. However, one of them does say that it isnt possible to prove the lock 
wasnt picked, and that is the problem  for L & G here I feel. 
Whilst I accept  in this particular claim it would be difficult  for L & G to prove the door was 
unlocked that is their problem. Given Ms Bs testimony and the inability of the contractors to 
prove the door wasnt picked I must ask L & G to reconsider the claim. The same as I would 
expect an insured to prove the origins of their claim to a certain degree,  once  an insurer  has 
decided to invoke  an exclusion it is they, the insurer, who must prove it should apply. And 
here I dont  think L & G have provided  that proof.  
Ref: DRN84991462my final decision
Legal & General Insurance Limited  should reconsider the claim based on the doors being 
locked, and meet any valid claim taking  into account the remaining policy  terms and 
conditions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8499146