K821x#15complaint
Mr S says that Close  Brothers Limited mishandled his complaint that the used car 
he'd acquired under  a conditional sales agreement wasn't of satisfactory quality.
background
In October  2016 Mr S acquired a used  car from a dealer via a conditional sale 
agreement  with Close  Brothers. The car was a convertible, around 10 years old and had 
a mileage of
75,000.
Shortly after the car was delivered Mr S noticed a problem with the clutch  and that the tyres  
appeared in poor condition. He complained to Close Brothers and said he would like to 
reject  the car. However  the dealer said it would  pay for the repairs and Mr S agreed to this. 
The dealer  paid £400 towards a new clutch and £40 towards a new tyre.
Mr S used the car but in February  2017 two tyres  "blew" on him on two separate 
occasions  which meant he had to pay for roadside  repairs.
At the end of February 2017 Mr S tried to put the roof down  on the car but it became  
jammed. He called out roadside assistance who was able to get the roof closed. They  
suggested Mr S grease  the system. But in March 2017 the roof jammed again. This 
time roadside  assistance couldn't get it closed and the car was taken to a garage.
Mr S complained to Close Brothers and said he wanted  to reject the car. He said there 
were  problems  with both the roof and boot and that the fuel gauge was faulty. He also said 
that because the roof wouldn't  open or close  fully the engine wouldn't start. Mr S said that 
he was having difficulties making contact with the dealer.
Close Brothers contacted the dealer  who said Mr S should  take the car to a local garage 
for an inspection  and then let them know.
A few days  later Mr S called Close Brothers and said a second dealership  had inspected 
the car and created a service video. This dealership had found a number of faults  with the 
car including worn cam and drive belts and an oil leak. The repairs had been estimated at
£1,700. Mr S explained  he had spoken with the supplying dealer who had said they could 
do the repairs for £400. Mr S was unhappy about this as he was concerned the repairs 
wouldn't  be up to scratch.  He said the dealer was going to collect  the car and have  an auto 
electrician  inspect it. Mr S repeated he wanted to reject the car.
Close Brothers said that an independent engineer  should now inspect  the car and prepare a 
report. This was arranged and carried out.
The independent engineer concluded that the car had had faults at the point  of sale.  Close 
Brothers contacted  the dealer who said that Mr S had agreed to it carrying out repairs  and it 
was liaising with him about collecting the car. It said it would update Close Brothers.
However, just over a week later Mr S called  Close Brothers and said the car had not been  
collected. Close Brothers apologised for the delay and tried to make contact with the 
dealer.
Ref: DRN80952842Just under  three weeks later Close Brothers made contact with the dealer who said Mr S 
hadn't been in touch  with it. But it was prepared to assist  Mr S once he'd booked the car 
in. So Close  Brothers issued a "Final Response  Letter" closing  Mr S's complaint as it said 
the dealer would repair the car.
Due to the delays in getting  the car fixed Mr S said he stopped  paying the monthly  
payments  under  the agreement once the eight weeks from the date of his complaint to 
Close Brothers  had passed. And in May 2017 a default notice was issued  to him by Close 
Brothers.  Close Brothers said that efforts were made to contact Mr S about his missing 
payments but he didn't  answer. Around the end of May 2017 the car was collected  by Close 
Brothers from Mr S and subsequently sold at auction.
Mr S complained to this service. He said that the car had had faults at the point of sale 
and he should've been able to reject it as unsatisfactory. He hadn't been able to work as 
he'd had no transport.  He said he had incurred many  expenses as a result  of this faulty car. 
He was also concerned that Close Brothers had wrongly told him he couldn't use the 
Return to Invoice Insurance to pay for the repairs. He thought Close Brothers  should pay 
him compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and reimburse his lost wages 
plus the expenses he'd paid out on the car. He also said he shouldn't have to pay the 
outstanding  balance of the conditional agreement and that Close Brothers  should 
compensate him for having to pay a higher interest rate on another credit agreement for a 
replacement car, caused by the default notice on his credit file.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. She said the evidence showed that the car 
had faults  at the point of sale and so hadn't been of satisfactory condition. Mr S was 
entitled to reject the car and the agreement to be unwound.
The investigator said it would be fair if all information  regarding this agreement was 
removed  from Mr S's credit file including the default.  And for Close Brothers to return       
Mr S's deposit  with interest,  write  off the outstanding balance and pay Mr S £200  
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Close Brothers agreed with our investigator's  view but Mr S says the compensation isn't 
fair. He says he lost earnings as due to the nature of his job with shifts and different  
locations he wasn't able to work as much and lost half his earnings  over a ten week  period  
when the car sat on his drive. He said he couldn't afford to continue paying  for the car as it 
had taken so long to resolve the complaint. Mr S also says that as a result of the default  
being recorded on his credit file the interest rate on the next credit agreement he'd had to 
take out for a car was much higher.
As the parties couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued  an initial  view 
along  the following  lines.  It was agreed the car had faults at the point  of sale and that 
Mr S was entitled to reject it. The issue for me to decide was what  would  be a fair and 
reasonable settlement in these  circumstances?
Mr S acquired a used car that was just under  10 years old and cost £2695. Its mileage 
was lower than average. Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 ("The  Act") the car must  be 
of a standard a reasonable person would expect  taking into account its age, value and 
mileage.  So I thought  some wear  and tear of the car would  be expected.
Mr S raised  an issue  with the clutch and tyres  shortly after taking  the car. The dealership  
paid £400  towards the clutch and £40 towards a tyre. Mr S says he spent a further £150 
Ref: DRN80952843on the clutch repair and an extra £10 on the tyre. He also said two of the tyres blew when  
driving to work meaning that hed incurred additional expense on replacing  them.
I asked  Mr S for the invoices for the clutch repair and tyre but unfortunately  he didnt 
provide them. I thought that it would be fair for Close Brothers to reimburse Mr S the £160 
hed spent  as the clutch and tyre issues were raised within the first 30 days that Mr S had 
the car. But Mr S must  firstly provide  those invoices.
I'd seen that Close Brothers  didn't accept  that a further two tyres  needed replacing  as the 
car had passed an MOT. I was also satisfied that a tyre could blow for a variety of reasons 
and not just because they were  worn. Mr S hadn't  sent in any evidence about these tyres 
so I didn't think it was fair to require Close Brothers to reimburse him the costs  of replacing 
them.
Mr S was sold "return to invoice" gap insurance  for the car. Close Brothers  correctly 
advised  him that he couldn't  use this insurance to cover the repairs as it didn't provide cover 
for this situation. But as Mr S had only had 5 months of use of this insurance then I thought 
it would  be fair for him to receive  a pro-rata reimbursement  once  he had provided the 
relevant  paperwork to Close  Brothers.
Mr S disagreed with how much Close Brothers said he'd used  the car. He said he was 
only able to drive it for around 500 miles. I'd seen that on the conditional sales agreement 
the mileage  was shown  as 75,000  and as 77,498 when inspected by the independent 
engineer.  Mr S said that when the car was delivered to him an extra 1000 miles had been 
recorded.  But Mr S didn't  tell Close Brothers about the mileage discrepancy when he 
raised the problem with the clutch a few days after he'd taken  delivery of the car. I'd seen 
that he raised this with the independent engineer as it's noted in the report that Mr S had 
said the car had done 77,000 miles at the point of sale.
I'd seen from the independent engineer's report that the mileage was 75,441 when  it 
underwent an MOT one week before  it was sold to Mr S. Mr S also showed  the 
independent  engineer  a sales invoice with the mileage shown as 76,000. So from the 
evidence I was satisfied  that Mr S had driven more than 500 miles.  I thought it was likely  
he was able to drive  the car up until March 2017 when the roof wouldn't  close properly. And 
that he'd driven around 2000  miles in it. I appreciated this was still a relative low mileage for 
around five months of driving but there couldve been  a number of different  reasons for that 
and not just due to the car being faulty.
Mr S said he was told not to drive the car by the garage and looking  at the list of faults 
that were found I'm not surprised by that. I was satisfied on the evidence that Mr S wasn't  
able to use the car from the end of March 2017. I'd also seen  from the "Balance Statement" 
that March 2017 was the last month hed paid. So I didnt intend to require Close Brothers 
to reimburse  Mr S any of his monthly payments as he was able to use the car up until the 
time he defaulted in April 2017.
I appreciated that Mr S found it difficult  to travel to work after the car broke down  at the end 
of March. He said that this affected his earnings  and meant he couldn't  afford  to continue  
making the payments.  But I'd also seen hed stopped paying  for the car fairly  shortly after it 
broke down so he wasn't  paying out twice for travel costs. I thought he could've  made other  
arrangements to get work so I didn't think I could  fairly say Close Brothers were liable  for 
any loss of earnings. I didnt intend to ask it to pay compensation for this.
Ref: DRN80952844Mr S was advised by Close  Brothers not to stop paying the monthly payments under  the 
agreement. I'd seen from the notes that efforts were made to make contact with him. I 
couldn't  say that Close Brothers was unreasonable in taking repossession of the car. 
However as    Mr S was entitled  to reject the car I agreed with our investigator that the 
outstanding balance  under the agreement should  be cancelled  and Mr S should  have  
nothing further to pay.
Mr S was very unhappy with the car and attempted to reject it on three  occasions. The first 
time he was persuaded to allow the dealer to repair  the clutch.  But following problems with 
the roof and boot he wanted to reject  it again.  There had also been lots of problems with  
Mr S trying to make contact with the dealer.  The dealer said Mr S didnt  get in touch  with 
them  but can't provide any proof of the calls it says were made by them to him in effort to 
make contact. I'd seen  that Mr S made several calls to Close Brothers  so I found it difficult  
to accept  he wouldn't have  made  efforts to contact the dealer.  And with credit agreements 
the finance company, in this case Close  Brothers, were responsible  for the actions  of the 
dealer. So I thought  Close Brothers  didn't  do enough to assist  Mr S in getting this matter 
resolved. It closed his complaint too early.
Mr S said that because he now had a default on his credit file the interest  rate on his new 
credit agreement was higher. I appreciated that Mr S should've been able to reject the car 
from March 2017 when  the further  faults with the car had come to light but Close Brothers 
hadnt acted unreasonably  by getting  an independent inspection. It needed  to establish  
whether the faults  were wear  and tear or whether  theyd been present at the point  of sale.  I 
also thought it was reasonable to take into account Mr S's decision  to stop paying when 
he had, and which I didn't think  he should have done. He was in a legal  agreement, and 
notwithstanding the problems hed had, he was obliged to continue making his repayments,
I asked Mr S to provide  a copy of his credit report as I didn't have any evidence whether it 
was this particular default that had led to his higher  interest rate on his next agreement,  or 
something else. Unfortunately he didn't  send it in so I didn't  know what  it said. So I didn't  
think I could reasonably ask Close Brothers to pay compensation to Mr S for the extra 
cost of his new credit agreement.
I accepted Mr S had been through a stressful time with this car. Taking into account  the 
impact  on him financially  and with the distress and inconvenience caused I thought £200  
compensatio n wasn't sufficient. I thought looking at all the evidence, and that Close 
Brothers had now finally accepted Mr S had a right to reject the car, that £350 would  be 
fairer.
So I was intending  to uphold Mr S's claim and require Close Brothers to do the following to 
put things right:
Show the agreement  as settled  on Mr S's credit file with nothing  further to pay
Ensure that any adverse information about this agreement  was removed 
from    Mr S's credit file
Reimburse the £200 deposit together with interest at the rate of 8% a year 
simple  from the date of payment until the date of settlement
Reimburse pro-rata the Return to Invoice Gap Insurance  premium paid by Mr S 
once  Mr S had provided the appropriate  paperwork
Reimburse Mr S, once invoices  were received, the additional £150 hed paid 
towards the new clutch and the £10 towards the replacement tyre together with 
Ref: DRN80952845interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
Pay Mr S the sum of £350 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr S hasnt responded but Close Brothers says it doesnt agree  that Mr S had the right to reject 
the car. It says that it accepts that the faults were present but as they came to light within 6 
months of the contract starting then the dealer  shouldve had the opportunity to repair. Its only if 
the repair fails that the consumer can then reject. It also says that Mr Ss credit  file shouldnt be 
amended as it should be a true reflection  of his payment  history. Finally, Close Brothers says that 
in regards to the Gap insurance  Mr S should only be reimbursed for the actual period he didnt  
have the car due to Close Brothers  investigations. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers originally  said it agreed  with our investigators view, which had included Mr S 
being able to reject the car, and for his credit file to have the adverse information about his 
repayments under  this agreement removed. It accepted it hadnt done enough to resolve the 
problems Mr S had with the car.
Mr S experienced problems with the car within the first six months. Its accepted that these faults  
were in existence at the point of sale. Mr S had an estimate from another garage as to the cost of 
all of the repairs. The dealership said it could repair the car for a far lower cost but I think  its 
understandable that Mr S was unhappy at this. However, Mr S agreed  to the car being repaired  
by the dealership but the car wasnt then collected. For the reasons  Ive given above I think the 
dealership, rather than Mr S, was at fault over this delay. It was also due to the delay that Mr S 
made the decision  to stop making  the monthly payments which resulted  in the car being 
repossessed by Close Brothers.
I think the dealership  had a reasonable opportunity to fix the car but didnt, and this means  that 
Mr S had the right to reject the car. So as Mr S was able to reject  the car then the agreement 
should be rewound. This means that its fair and reasonable for the adverse  information  about his 
payment history under  this agreement to be removed. Mr S should be treated  as though  this 
agreement hadnt really existed. His frustration and withholding of payments were all caused by 
the delays  in getting  the car fixed.
I also still think that Mr S should be reimbursed for the seven months  of the Gap insurance  that 
he wasnt  able to use as he couldnt use the car. However Mr S still needs to provide the 
paperwork for this to Close Brothers before  that becomes payable.
So for the reasons  Ive given above I havent  changed my view and I ask that Close Brothers  do 
the following:
Show the agreement  as settled  on Mr S's credit file with nothing  further to pay
Ensure that any adverse information about this agreement  was removed 
from Mr S's credit  file
Reimburse the £200 deposit together with interest at the rate of 8% a year 
simple  from the date of payment until the date of settlement
Reimburse pro-rata the Return to Invoice Gap Insurance  premium paid by Mr S 
once  Mr S had provided the appropriate  paperwork
Ref: DRN80952846Reimburse Mr S, once invoices  were received, the additional £150 hed paid 
towards the new clutch and the £10 towards the replacement tyre together with 
interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
Pay Mr S the sum of £350 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused.
my final decision
As set out above,  Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. Im asking Close Brothers Limited  to do the 
following:
Show the agreement  as settled  on Mr S's credit file with nothing  further to pay
Ensure that any adverse information about this agreement  was removed 
from Mr S's credit  file
Reimburse the £200 deposit together with interest at the rate of 8% a year 
simple  from the date of payment until the date of settlement
Reimburse pro-rata the Return to Invoice Gap Insurance  premium paid by Mr S 
once  Mr S had provided the appropriate  paperwork
Reimburse Mr S, once invoices  were received, the additional £150 hed paid 
towards the new clutch and the £10 towards the replacement tyre together with 
interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
Pay Mr S the sum of £350 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused.
Close Brothers Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr S accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple
If Close Brothers Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject 
my decision  before 28 February 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8095284