K820x#14complaint
O, a limited company,  complains that HSBC  UK Bank Plc closed its business account 
without warning. O is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr B. Mr B asks that 
HSBC pays compensation for his time and upset.
background
O had a business account with HSBC. Mr B says in September  2018 he was unable to 
access Os account online. When he contacted HSBC he was told the account was closed 
because he hadnt  responded to HSBCs letters and online notices. Mr B says he didnt 
notice these and HSBC should  have  made  more effort to contact him before closing the 
account. He says this left O unable to pay staff and meet other  outgoings. 
HSBC re-instated  the account  24 hours  later and made an appointment for Mr B to provide 
information six weeks later. Mr B said it wasnt apologetic.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
HSBC wrote to O several times asking it to update its information by completing  an 
online form. As it didnt receive a response, HSBC sent notice to O to close its account. 
Mr B says he received  the letters but didnt  open them. 
HSBC also provided evidence that a message and banner were visible on its internet 
banking page  between March and September 2018. Mr B accessed the account during 
this time.
HSBC gave O enough information  about  updating its account  details  and explained the 
consequences of not doing  so. It gave O a reasonable opportunity to respond and acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. NatWest  agreed to keep  the account 
open and gave Mr B a further opportunity to provide the information. 
O didnt agree. Mr B said HSBCs letter said it would help him transfer the account to a new 
bank, but it didnt attempt to offer this help. He said the account didnt remain  open. And hes 
had to wait for new cards.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
In early April 2018 HSBC wrote to O asking it to provide up to date information.  It sent a 
reminder letter in June 2018. This was part of HSBCs  safeguard review, which is intended 
to protect  customers from fraud  and financial crime. HSBC  also displayed  online messages. 
It didnt receive the information it requested or any response from O.
The terms and conditions  of Os account  say that HSBC can close the account by giving two 
months notice. HSBC wrote to O at the end of June 2018 giving notice that it would close its 
account in September 2018.  HSBC  says there  was also a pop up message  about the 
Ref: DRN87532912account closure when  Mr B logged into Os account. HSBC says Mr B used online banking  a 
number of times during the notice  period. 
I think HSBC was entitled under the terms and conditions  to give notice  to close  the account. 
It gave notice in writing and put messages online.  It didnt know  that Mr B would receive but 
not open the letters. I think HSBC  did enough  to make Mr B aware of its request for 
information and the account closure. It didnt  need to try all possible forms of communication. 
When Mr B contacted HSBC it agreed  to halt the closure and allow  Mr B further time to 
provide the information. This was a goodwill gesture. 
I dont think HSBC did anything wrong  when it sent a letter to O saying it would help transfer 
its banking arrangements to another provider.  Theres nothing  to suggest it wouldnt have 
done this if Mr B had opened an account elsewhere and contacted HSBC for assistance. 
I appreciate that this has caused Mr B inconvenience and upset. But I dont think HSBC  
made any errors or acted unfairly. So I dont think its fair and reasonable to require  it to pay 
compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8753291