K820x#14complaint
Mr Vs complaint is that Infinox Capital Limited (ICL) was responsible for unsuitable trading 
advice given to him by two account  managers.  His complaint also relates to the 
appropriateness of his CFD trading account. ICL did not uphold his complaint, so it was 
referred to this service.
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and shared an initial  view on it. In 
summary, she noted that ICL provided  an execution  only service that was devoid of advice 
so it was not responsible for the suitability of Mr Vs trades; that evidence  did not show  ICL 
gave him trading advice or that the two individuals he described as account managers were 
employed by ICL; that the complaint about unsuitable advice  would not be upheld; but that 
ICL appeared  to have determined that the CFD trading  account  was appropriate for Mr V 
despite evidence  suggesting that it was not, so the complaint  about  inappropriateness  of the 
account would be upheld.
ICL disagreed with the view about  the appropriateness  matter. It clarified that it had not 
determined that the account was appropriate  for Mr V and that its earlier  references  to risk 
warnings  which, on their own, the adjudicator considered to have fallen short of a warning 
about inappropriateness  was not to be considered in isolation.  It explained  that the total 
body of risk warnings issued to and agreed  by Mr V included a warning(s) that had been 
specifically triggered  because the account  had been  deemed inappropriate for him. It said 
this warning would only have been issued,  within the automated application  process, where 
responses given  by Mr V suggested that the account was inappropriate for him. ICL also 
addressed a concern shared by the adjudicator  about English not being Mr Vs first language 
so an application  process in English could have been an issue.  It clarified that the online 
application process used by Mr V was in his first language.
ICL also referred to two previous decisions from this service  one in a complaint it 
responded to and the other in a complaint about another firm. It said the facts and findings  in 
both were comparable  or similar to Mr Vs case and that the outcomes in both decisions  
which rejected the complaints  set a precedent that should be followed in Mr Vs case.
Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators view on the complaint about unsuitable advice and 
suggested that more investigation  should be conducted into the connection between  the two 
named individuals and ICL  or any relevant third party.
The adjudicator reviewed the matter.  She retained her view on the complaint about 
unsuitable advice.  She considered that no new evidence had been presented to alter that 
view. In terms of the appropriateness matter she concluded that it should not be upheld for 
broadly the same reasons  given by ICL. Mr V disagreed with this outcome. He described  
circumstances in which the two named individuals allegedly controlled his application for the 
account, his depositing of funds and his trading. In this context, he suggested (or asserted) 
that he was not responsible or aware enough  at the application  stage  to be bound  by any 
inappropriateness warning. The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN88315992One of the two previous  decisions  that ICL has cited was mine. I have revisited it and I have 
also read the second decision, which was issued by another ombudsman.  It is important to 
clarify that each complaint is to be addressed on its own facts,  evidence and merits. The 
same applies  to Mr Vs complaint. However,  I understand  ICLs  position. It says that if a case  
is comparable or similar  to a previous one, and in the absence  of cause to deviate from the 
basis of the decision  in the previous case,  a consistent approach should apply. 
Alleged Unsuitable  Trading Advice
As the adjudicator noted, ICL provided  an execution only service to Mr V. Evidence  of the 
agreed terms for his account says no advice was to be given and I have not seen evidence  
of any advice from ICL to Mr V. Mr Vs claim under this issue is specific.  He says the two 
named individuals gave him trading advice. ICL asserts that both individuals  were not a part 
of or connected to it and that they were not its employees. Evidence  to the contrary  is limited 
to only what Mr V says  that is, that they were employed by or connected to ICL. This is not 
enough and it appears,  from his recent comments, that Mr V might  be unsure in this respect 
as he suggests,  in the alternative,  that both individuals might belong to another  firm but, if 
so, this needs to be investigated further.
The remit that arises from ICL being  the respondent to Mr Vs complaint is to consider ICLs 
responsibility, if any, in the matter complained of. It does not extend to investigating  the two 
named individuals in isolation. I have consulted the regulators register in terms of the 
records held for ICL  including records for its Appointed  Representatives (past and present) 
and records related to its previous trading name(s). The two named individuals  do not 
appear as its past or present Appointed Representatives  and they do not appear  as 
individuals previously  or currently involved with ICL  or as individuals  with controlled 
functions under ICL.
Overall and on balance,  I am not satisfied that the two named individuals  belonged to ICL or 
that they conducted themselves  in the manner  alleged by Mr V  with ICLs express or 
implied authority.  Its express authority could arise from evidence of an arrangement between 
ICL and both individuals  in which such express  authority was given to them. I have seen no 
evidence of this. Its implied authority could arise  from evidence  of ICL conducting itself 
towards Mr V in a way that suggested to him that both individuals  had its authority to engage 
with him. I have not seen evidence of this. The conclusion that follows is that ICL provided 
him with an execution only service in which  no advice was given by ICL to him and any 
advice he received from the two named individuals appears to have been unrelated  ICL.
Appropriateness
The adjudicators views  gave a helpful explanation of the regulators rules  which apply in this 
respect. I do not consider that her explanation needs  to be duplicated in this decision, 
especially as it is ICLs  position that it did not determine that Mr Vs account was appropriate 
for him  it determined  the opposite. Evidence  broadly supports ICLs position.  Available 
evidence is not particularly extensive  but it appears  to be enough to show the key aspects of 
the application process and to show responses that Mr V gave during the process. 
I have noted Mr Vs suggestion  (or assertion) that the two named  individuals  completed the 
process for him without his involvement.  However,  I do not have  enough evidence  to accept 
this, so the implication  remains that he completed  the application process  which  appears  
to have been in his first language  himself or at least with sufficient involvement to have 
Ref: DRN88315993answered the relevant questions and to have been aware of the warnings and notices which 
appear to have been issued (and agreed).  I have not seen screen shots of all of the relevant 
warnings and notices  being expressly  agreed by Mr V. Unfortunately, all such  screenshots 
do not appear to have  been captured. However, I have seen evidence of his responses to 
questions, evidence of the warnings that would have been triggered depending on 
responses to particular questions (about trading knowledge and experience) and evidence 
that suggests the account could not have been activated without agreement to the warnings.
My decision  in the previous case, which ICL has referred to, included  the following:
A firm is not required  to notify its client if the assessment concludes that its service or 
product is appropriate.  However it is obliged to warn  its client if the assessment concludes 
that its service or product  is not appropriate  and its warning can be in a standardised 
format. If, despite the warning, the client wishes to proceed with the service or product the 
firm has discretion to do so  having  regard to the circumstances.
I consider that the above statement applies in Mr Vs case. As the adjudicator  quoted, 
evidence of the warning triggered  in the application  process by information about lack of 
experience included the following text:
We note you have limited trading experience. Trading Forex and CFDs carry a high level
of risks and may not be suitable for all investors. Before deciding to participate in the Forex 
and CFD market, you should  carefully  consider your investment objectives, level of 
experience and risk appetite. You should obtain independent advice if necessary. [my 
emphasis]
I appreciate that this does not explicitly say a CFD account is inappropriate for you or 
something explicitly along that line. However, as I said in the quote above  a firms warning 
can be in a standardised format and, on balance, I accept that the warning above  which  
would have appeared only when  a response or responses in the application process 
suggested inappropriateness  was ICLs standard format for an inappropriateness 
warning. Given their ordinary meanings the statements in the warning, especially those I 
emphasised above,  appear sufficient to convey  to applicants that their limited experience 
means that opening  a CFD account  (and CFD trading) may not be in their interest  in other  
words, the account  is not appropriate.
Having issued the relevant warning and in the face of Mr V deciding  to proceed with the 
account nevertheless, ICL retained  discretion to either turn down his application  because 
of the warning  or to grant him the account despite the warning. It chose to do the latter. A 
view might be taken that it could have done  the former and declined  Mr Vs application  due 
to his lack of experience and as a follow-up to the warning. However,  that does not mean 
that it should have done so. The regulators rules permitted it to exercise  its discretion to 
proceed with the opening  of the account  as it did, having regard to the circumstances. I 
have not seen evidence of wider  circumstances in Mr Vs case  that ought reasonably to 
have stopped ICL from doing this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Vs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject  my decision 
before 24 June 2019.
Ref: DRN88315994Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8831599