K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc is pursuing him for a credit  card debt. He says he 
didnt open a credit card account with Sainsburys Bank and that he has never lived at the 
address associated with the account. The fact that the card account is linked to him is 
making it difficult for him to obtain credit elsewhere.  
background
Sainsburys Bank opened a credit  card in Mr As name in July 2014. The card was used and 
payments were made  to the card account until about  January 2017. In April 2017  
Sainsburys Bank received a message  (on the face of it from Mr A) saying that he was 
having difficulty paying the credit  card debt. Mr A says the message didnt come  from him. 
Mr A has explained that he applied for a car loan and was quoted  what  he considered to be 
a very high interest rate. When he checked his credit file he noticed an address which he 
had never  lived at against his name.  This was the address associated  with the credit card. 
But when he contacted Sainsburys Bank  about  it, the bank said its records showed he had 
applied for the card and that it didnt  believe somebody else had stolen his identity. 
Mr A didnt accept what Sainsburys Bank  said and referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators  considered it. She thought that there was sufficient  evidence  to 
show that Mr A had indeed taken  out the credit card and so didnt believe that Sainsburys 
Bank should write off the outstanding debt. Mr A didnt accept the investigators conclusions 
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Mr A has said that other financial  businesses  have removed  information linking him to the 
address that Sainsburys Bank holds. There may however be good reasons for that; it may 
even be that fraudulent applications have been  made to those businesses. But I dont  
believe it necessarily follows that Sainsburys Bank  should act in the same way. Rather, I 
need to consider the available evidence about  Mr As connections (if any) with Sainsburys 
Bank. 
With the exception  of the address, Mr As personal  details on the credit  card application 
match his own. Mr A says that hes never lived at that address. The issue  here however isnt 
really whether he has or hasnt lived at that address; its whether he applied for the credit 
card and thereby  agreed to be liable for any authorised use of it.    
The investigator noted that the card had been used for some time,  and that payments had 
been made to the account.  I think its unlikely  that someone who had applied  for a card 
fraudulently and in someone elses name  would  make  payments to the card account. And 
theyd have no reason to contact the card provider to discuss  financial  difficulties. But in this 
case, payments  were  made and someone did contact Sainsburys Bank.
Further, Sainsburys Bank identified  that a loan had been taken out in Mr As name.  Again, 
the application included Mr As details,  but the address given was the same  as that provided 
for the credit card. Payments were made and the loan was repaid in full. Our investigator 
Ref: DRN85715362contacted the bank  from which the payments were made and established  that they came 
from an account in Mr As name. The identity document provided to open the account 
included Mr As details  and a photograph  which  matched  the photograph on the driving  
licence that Mr A provided to the investigator.  
On balance, therefore, I think its more likely than not that Mr A opened and had use of the 
credit card account. It wouldnt therefore be fair to require Sainsburys Bank to change  its 
records of the account  or to write off the debt. 
Finally, Mr A has said he believes  its for Sainsburys Bank to prove that he opened the 
account, not for him to prove that he didnt. For the avoidance of doubt,  this schemes rules 
dont set out who has to prove what; we arent  bound by the same  rules of evidence  as a 
court would be. However, having considered  the evidence, I am in any event satisfied that 
Sainsburys Bank has shown that Mr A applied for the credit card. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Sainsburys Bank Plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr As complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8571536