K820x#14complaint
Miss O has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  wont repair  the fuel filler 
on her car. Miss O made a claim under her car insurance policy  after being involved in an 
accident. 
background
Miss O made a complaint to her insurer Admiral about a claim she made  in December 2017. 
We looked at Miss Os complaint. In September 2018 an investigator made a number of 
recommendations. Both parties agreed. 
One of the recommendations was for Admiral  to do the following:
Instruct an independent  assessor  (IA) to review the evidence available  and 
comment on whether it was possible the damage to the fuel filler occurred as a 
result of the accident.
If the IA considered it possible the damage  to the fuel filler was the result  of the 
accident, Admiral should arrange to have it repaired at its own cost.
Admiral arranged for an IA to look at the damage to the fuel filler.  He concluded that the 
damage wasnt caused by the incident.  So Admiral didnt meet the costs  to repair it. 
Miss O complained to Admiral as she didnt agree with the IAs report. Miss O said Admiral  
misled a dealership  after shed  provided a report from them  to Admiral. And she said Admiral 
hadnt paid compensation  for her childs injuries. Miss O said her child was injured in the 
accident as a passenger in her car. 
Our investigator said hed addressed Miss Os complaint about  the dealership being misled  
in his previous  view.  Both parties  agreed with his recommendations  then.  So he said this 
complaint wouldnt  be investigated again.  He spoke to Admiral  about Miss Os claim for 
injury compensation  for her child. Admiral  said it could refer Miss O to the provider of her 
legal cover policy if she wanted to pursue a claim. 
As an IA had concluded the damage  to the fuel filler wasnt incident related damage, the 
investigator didnt  feel Miss Os complaint should be upheld. 
Miss O didnt  agree. She said the fuel filler wasnt loose  before the accident   but it was 
after. So shed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The remaining  issue  for me to decide is whether Admirals  decision not to pay to repair  the 
fuel filler was reasonable. I think it was. Ill explain  why. 
Ive reviewed the IAs report. He found  that there  had been previous poor repairs carried  out 
to the area where the fuel filler is. He concluded that the fuel filler issue  wasnt  related to 
repairs carried out in relation to the incident.
Ref: DRN85741872Miss O says that she hadnt  had an accident  in the car before the one she claimed for in 
December 2017.  But as Miss O wasnt the first owner of the car, its possible that the repairs  
were carried  out by a previous owner. 
So I think Admiral acted  reasonably. It obtained  independent advice from a qualified expert. I 
understand Miss O doesnt agree with the IAs findings. But there isnt sufficient evidence  to 
say the fuel filler damage was caused  by the incident or by the incident related repairs.  So 
this means I dont think Admiral should pay for further repairs.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8574187