K821x#15Complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that R. Raphael & Sons Plc is holding him liable for an ATM  withdrawal he 
says he didnt make.
Background
Mr M had a prepaid debit  card with the business.  He loaded it with cash before a trip to the 
United States. During the trip, he wanted to withdraw $300  from an ATM in a hotel.  The ATM 
warned him that hed be charged  a fee of $7.99.  Mr M says he didnt want to pay the 
transaction fee and so he cancelled the transaction. 
He later discovered that the $300  had been debited  from his account anyway. He discovered 
this when attempting to use the card to make a payment. He contacted Raphael & Sons to 
let it know what had happened. He said that he was willing to contact the hotel to ask if it 
was willing  to share any CCTV with him  this could  demonstrate whether cash was 
dispensed by the machine. He says he was assured that this would be looked at as part of 
the investigation.
Raphael & Sons refused to refund  the transaction. It said that data provided by the ATM 
suggested that the cash had been dispensed  and that it wasnt  made aware  of any issues  
with that ATM on that day. Mr M was unhappy  with the response he received from Raphael  
& Sons and so he referred a complaint  to this service. 
It was looked  at by an investigator who upheld it. The investigator wasnt  persuaded that it 
was fair and reasonable to hold Mr M liable for the transaction unless it was clear that there  
wasnt a fault with the machine. The business  disagreed with the investigators  opinion and 
so the complaint has been passed to me to come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive come to same  
overall conclusion  as the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons.
Mr M says that he cancelled the transaction and didnt receive $300. However, the technical 
evidence provided  by Raphael (the ATM journal)  shows that the money  was dispensed. Its 
difficult to know for sure exactly what happened here. Where evidence  is incomplete or 
contradictory then I must  reach a decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr M has given  a plausible  and persuasive account of the circumstances surrounding the 
transaction. Hes said at there was a clear and unambiguous message on the screen  of the 
ATM saying that the transaction  had been cancelled. He also told us that he attempted to 
use the card later the same day - only for that attempted transaction to be declined  due to 
insufficient funds.  Its unlikely that hed have attempted to make  the payment using this card 
unless he genuinely  believed that the $300  hadnt  been deducted from the balance.  
I also think its significant that he was very keen that the business  should acquire CCTV 
footage of the ATM to show that no cash was dispensed. I think  its unlikely that Mr M would 
be so keen that this evidence  be obtained  if he wasnt  sure that his account of what  took 
place was accurate.  
Ref: DRN89159912I accept that there are other  possibilities. For example,  the cash may have dispensed after 
Mr M walked  away from the machine and been taken by an opportunistic  thief  although 
from what Mr M has said, this could  only have happened after quite a significant delay.
Its also possible that the cash was dispensed  but that Mr M forgot  to take it with him. In 
which case, it might have been  recalled by the machine and deposited  into its purge box. 
Unfortunately, Raphael has not been  able to obtain more detailed  information from the 
company that operates the ATM to show whether  any cash  was in the purge box or if there 
was a problem  with the ATM balancing.  I recognise  that it can be difficult  to obtain this 
evidence for ATMs that are based  overseas  but its fundamental to this case. Without it, I 
cant discount the possibility that there  was an error  with the machine. In view of that and Mr 
Ms detailed account of what  took place, I think whats most likely to have happened here is 
that there  was a problem with the machine  which meant that the cash wasnt dispensed. 
Overall, I think its more  likely than not that Mr M did cancel  the transaction but that the ATM 
issued the cash  anyway. It must then have either been taken by a third party  or retained by 
the ATM. As Ive concluded that its more likely than not that Mr M didnt authorise the 
transaction, it follows that Raphael should  not hold him liable for it.
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
R. Raphael & Sons Plc needs  to refund what Mr M paid in pounds  for the $300 at the point 
he loaded it on to the card. It will need to add 8% simple interest per annum on that sum 
from the date Mr M tried to make the withdrawal  until the date the settlement is paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8915991