K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) managed  her 
bank account.
background
Mrs M has been a customer of NatWest for many years. She granted a power of attorney  to 
her daughter, Miss M, to deal with her financial affairs. Miss M has brought  this complaint on 
her mothers  behalf.
In September  2017 Mrs M received a letter from her mortgage provider telling her about 
payments not being made to her mortgage  between 2011 and 2014.  This meant  there were 
arrears on the mortgage account and she was told shed have to increase her monthly 
payments to make up the shortfall.
Miss M complained to NatWest and then to this service, raising three  issues:
she had provided  the power of attorney documents to NatWest  but it hadnt  accepted  
these and wouldnt discuss  the account  with her;
the standing  order payment  to the mortgage wasnt  made  and Mrs M was never 
aware of this;
text message alerts were not received in time to avoid charges being applied  to her 
mothers account.
In its final reply to Mrs M, NatWest said it didnt have  the power of attorney  document  and so 
had no authority to discuss  details about  the account  with Miss M. It said there was no 
reason to doubt Miss Ms account of attempts she had made to have the power of attorney 
added to the account and couldnt explain why this hadnt happened.  But as it wasnt 
recorded, Miss M would  have to take the document into her local branch to have it noted on 
the account.
When the complaint  was referred to this service, NatWest told us it hadnt received the 
power of attorney documents  to attach to the accounts; Miss M hadnt said when  the 
mortgage arrears arose but it had checked the account transactions and the mortgage  
payments were being made each month; and no bank error has been made in relation to the 
text alert service.
Our investigator initially thought the complaint should not be upheld. Following further 
discussions he thought  the text message service  was misleading and suggested NatWest 
pay some  compensation  for this. NatWest  agreed to waive some charges as a goodwill 
gesture but didnt  agree to pay compensation. It said the information provided about  the text 
message service made it clear customers could not rely on these to avoid  paying  charges. 
After considering NatWests further comments, our investigator didnt think it should do any 
more than refund the charges of £24.
Miss M wasnt  satisfied with this. She still feels NatWest should  have told her mother  about 
the mortgage payments not being made.  She would like compensation for issues with the 
text message service.  And she says NatWest  has provided very poor service   in particular, 
denying that it had the power of attorney when she had already provided  the document  
several times.
Before reaching a decision I asked both Miss M and NatWest for some  more information.
Ref: DRN86377102NatWest confirmed that although mortgage payments were made by standing order each 
month they were returned unpaid. It cant explain why this happened  it says standing 
orders are set up and managed by the customer and it has no dealings with them,  unless 
asked to make amendments by the customer. NatWest says it appears no standing  order  
was set up during  that period, but its system doesnt  confirm  this as that information is no 
longer available.
Miss M explained that the mortgage provider accepted 50% responsibility  for not telling  her 
mother the mortgage wasnt paid during that period.  But she says NatWest  should also have 
noticed the payments were not being  made and should have informed her mother. She says 
it was a shock to suddenly receive  a letter saying the mortgage  hadnt been paid for such  a 
long period. She knows the arrears need  to be paid, but she says NatWests failure to take 
action contributed to the debt being  incurred and has left her mother in financial hardship.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018. In the provisional 
decision I set out my conclusions on each of the three issues as follows:
power of attorney
NatWest requires a certified copy of a power  of attorney to be recorded on an account 
before it will discuss details about  an account  with the customers attorney. Thats common 
practice. Banks have  to protect their customers financial information  and its important they 
are careful about discussing  financial information  with someone who isnt the account holder. 
But Miss M says she provided  the power  of attorney to NatWest several times so there was 
no reason why it should say the information  wasnt noted on the account until recently.
Its not clear to me exactly how many times Miss M provided the document.  But NatWest has 
acknowledged theres no reason to doubt what  she says and couldnt explain why it wasnt 
recorded. On balance, Im satisfied  Miss M made more than one attempt to have the power 
of attorney  noted  and NatWest cant explain why this wasnt done.
Im sure this was distressing for Miss M. Although I can award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, I can only do this for someone  whos a customer  of the bank and Miss M isnt 
the banks customer. So  while I appreciate Miss M will be disappointed  about this  I cant 
make an award for her.
I could award compensation for Mrs M if NatWests actions have caused  her distress but, 
since it was Miss M who was dealing with this, theres no evidence to show  Mrs M herself  
was caused any upset.
mortgage arrears
The mortgage payments were  made  by standing  order. Miss M isnt saying NatWest caused  
the problem with the payments, but she thinks it should have noticed the payments were 
being returned and should have told her mother about this. And she says the fact these 
payments were not made  means her mother is now having to make extra  payments  each 
month, which is causing financial hardship.
It would come as a shock to find that the mortgage payments hadnt been  made.  But as 
NatWest has explained,  a standing order is an instruction from a customer for the bank to 
make a payment.  So its set up and controlled  by the customer. The bank wouldnt know 
Ref: DRN86377103what the purpose of a standing order is or monitor the payments. So we wouldnt expect  
NatWest to keep an eye on the payments or tell Mrs M if they were not being made.
I understand Miss M also complained to the mortgage provider about this and has resolved 
that complaint.  I know she is upset  about what happened and the fact that  despite 
resolving the other complaint  her mother now has to make extra payments on the 
mortgage. But NatWest  wasnt  responsible  for the situation they now find themselves in and 
so I dont think it needs to take any further  action.
text message service
Miss M made use of NatWests text message service. This means  she will get a text 
message if, for example,  the account  is above  the authorised overdraft limit or theres not 
enough money in the account to make a payment. She says these alerts were  sometimes 
sent late and this meant she wasnt aware she needed to pay some money into the account.
There have been  some issues with this service.  But this is an additional service to help 
customers and isnt something they can rely on to avoid charges. And this is explained 
clearly in the information NatWest provides to customers. NatWest  offered to waive charges 
of £24 and in the circumstances I think that was fair, so I wont  ask NatWest  to do any more. 
Its for Miss M to decide if she wishes to accept  that offer.
For these reasons, I said I did not intend to uphold  the complaint.
developments
NatWest hasnt commented on the provisional decision. 
Miss M has commented and she doesnt agree with my provisional  decision. She says:
the provisional decision isnt accurate;
NatWest is responsible for the failed standing  order  payments  the payments were 
rejected due to incorrect reference information,  but there were enough funds in the 
account and neither  she nor her mother ever stopped the payment;
NatWest should  have noticed and should have contacted  them  its failure to act has 
forced her mother into debt;
her mother  is a vulnerable customer and NatWest  hasnt  treated  her fairly;
she told NatWest in 2015 she had power of attorney and was able to speak to them 
about her mothers account  after that;
NatWest never contacted her about  the complaint and was deliberately obstructive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss M feels very strongly  that NatWest  is responsible  for the missed  payments 
and that it hasnt treated her mother well. But I explained in my provisional decision that it 
wasnt responsible  for the payments not being made. 
Miss M says the payments were  returned  due to incorrect reference information.  Mrs Ms 
mortgage provider  changed, so if she didnt  change the standing order to the new provider 
Ref: DRN86377104that may be what caused the issue. As standing orders  are set up by the customer, they 
need to provide details of the payee and the account the funds  are to be paid into. And 
Mrs M would  need to tell the bank if this changed  its not something the bank would do 
unless instructed by the customer. 
As I said in the provisional decision,  theres no reason to doubt what Miss M says about 
providing the power of attorney to NatWest. And NatWest hasnt been able to explain why it 
wasnt recorded. The issue here is that Miss M was dealing with this. And she wasnt  the 
customer of NatWest (her mother was).  So while I understand that she feels  very strongly 
about this, Im not able to award compensation for any distress or inconvenience  caused to 
her.
For the reasons  I havent change my provisional  conclusion and so Im not upholding the 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8637710