K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr P says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
I think RBS made it clear that Mr P didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out 
 although I can understand  why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive been  given 
a copy of Mr Ps postal credit card application  form. I can see this includes a section for PPI. 
Mr P has ticked the box to say he wanted  to take out the PPI and he has signed  the 
application form, which suggests it reflected what he wanted. If Mr P didnt want  to take out 
the PPI he could have left the box blank (which  I note he has done for other  optional  
products offered on the form).
Ive also seen copies  of Mr Ps credit  card statements which  show  payments for PPI. So I 
think he would have  been aware he was paying for it and if it had been something that he 
hadnt asked for, I think its likely he would have questioned  what  these payments were for.
As the policy was sold through a postal application form, I dont think  RBS gave  Mr P any 
advice to buy the policy (as none  of its representatives would have  spoken  to him). So it 
didnt have to check it was right for him, but it did need to give him enough clear information  
so he could decide if it was right for him.
Its possible  the information RBS gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose to take out the PPI knowing what sick pay and savings he had - and it 
still looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover  so it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong, paying out on top of 
anything he would  have  received from his employer and for potentially longer than he would 
have got his full rate of pay. It also would  have meant that any savings he had could have 
been used for other essential  living expenses at what couldve been a difficult time 
financially. From what Ive seen it looks like the PPI was affordable for Mr P. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mr P, that was 
unfair. 
Ref: DRN89713672To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8971367