K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Mr L have complained that Mr W was mis-sold a dinghy  policy  by Society  of 
Lloyds (SOL) and this caused his claim to be declined.
background
Mr W and Mr L own a sailing boat. Mr W insured it through his broker who obtained a quote 
from SOLs broker. SOLs broker was authorised to offer policies on behalf  of SOL as its 
agent.
Mr W made a claim to SOL after the boat broke free from its mooring  in June 2017 and sank. 
The cost of repairs was originally estimated to be at least £4,000.
SOL rejected the claim. It said Mr W was in breach of a condition on the policy  that the boat 
should be hauled  ashore  when not in use.
Mr W and Mr L say that from 2010  to 2016 there  wasnt such  a condition  in the policy.  But in 
2016 Mr Ws previous insurer stopped  dealing  with brokers, so his broker  asked SOLs 
broker to provide them with an equivalent policy. SOLs broker  recommended  the new policy  
to Mr Ws broker.  Unfortunately the new policy contained the condition referred to above.
Mr W complained  to SOLs broker. It didnt  accept responsibility and said his own broker 
should have checked the terms of the new policy to make sure it was suitable for him. Hes 
brought a separate  complaint against  his broker.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in order to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
findings. An extract  from my provisional  decision is set out below.
Firstly I would like to point out that in this decision Im only able to consider the actions of 
SOL.
Mr Ws broker was a retail  broker dealing with consumers. Its not unusual, where specialist 
cover is being arranged, for a retail broker to use whats called a wholesale  broker to assist  
in arranging such cover. Wholesale brokers will often, as in this case, have authority to issue  
policies on behalf  of an insurer such as the syndicates which are part of SOL.
The wholesale broker wrote to Mr Ws broker in July 2016. It said it was acting as SOLs 
agent when  placing  business and issuing documents. It also said:
We believe that these  policies provide cover comparable to other  Small  craft Insurance 
policies and Marine Legal Costs policies available in the UK and we recommend them as an 
appropriate solution for your clients insurance  requirements.
SOL said it didnt require  its agent to ask about storage. It said given that this is a policy for 
dinghy insurance (and not yacht  insurance for example)- the question of storage is not 
specifically expected to be asked because  it is widely accepted by the boating and sailing 
community that virtually all dinghies are only ever stored out of the water.  Given  this to be 
the case, the exclusion in question ceases to be significant in general  for virtually every  
insured.
Ref: DRN88733332I agree  that the exclusion wouldnt be significant  for most dinghies. But the schedule  to the 
policy specified what type of boat was being insured. Mr W and Mr Ls boat is just over six 
metres long, weighs  about 1,200kg and has a cabin.  To my mind this boat is more  like a 
cabin cruiser than a dinghy. I think SOLs agent as an expert  in marine insurance  should 
have known that a policy with such a condition about storage on shore wouldnt be suitable 
for Mr W.
I think SOL had a responsibility to bring  key terms to the attention of its policyholders either  
directly or through its agent and I cant see that it met this requirement  with Mr W.
In cases where an insurance  policy has been  mis-sold our approach will usually  be to look at 
the position the consumer  would be in had the mis-sale not taken place. In this case I think 
Mr W would  have bought  a policy without a condition that he couldnt  comply with. If hed 
done that, his claim would probably  have been  paid since it was only declined on the ground 
that the condition about storage  had been  breached.
But I dont think SOL should have to pay the whole of the cost of the claim. In the 
circumstances I think its only fair that SOL should  pay half the cost of settling the claim.
If Mr W and Mr L can provide evidence of the amount of the claim and my final decision is 
along the same lines as this decision, I will forward that evidence to SOL and consider 
awarding them a fixed amount.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr W said he couldnt show what he and Mr L had spent on repairs  as they hadnt been 
carried out. He no longer  thought it would be economic  to repair  the boat and asked me to 
award him £4,000, being half the sum insured.
SOL accepted my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party disagreed with my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them and 
so they become the findings of this final decision.  
I have considered whether it would be appropriate for SOL to pay Mr W £4,000.  Ive come to 
the conclusion  it wouldnt be because I havent  seen any evidence of the revised repair 
costs. I think Mr W and Mr L should obtain  two quotes for the repair of their boat. SOL 
should pay half the cost of repair (based on the lower of the two quotes) or £4,000  whichever 
is the lower.
Ref: DRN88733333my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Society  of Lloyds to pay half the cost of repairing 
the boat (based on the lower of two quotes  obtained by Mr W and Mr L) or £4,000  whichever 
is the lower.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8873333