K822xcomplaint
Mrs J, representing the trustees of the P trust,  complains about the transfer and other  fees 
charged by Barclays Bank UK PLC in respect  of the investment portfolio held in the trust. 
background 
Barclays noted that Mrs J hadnt  become a trustee  until March 2015  and the change  in 
charging structure had taken place prior to that date. 
It explained that the portfolio had initially  been managed on a discretionary  basis  but in April 
2014 changes  to its introducer  relationships meant that the portfolio would no longer be 
managed. Barclays said it had written to customers to explain this and to offer the 
opportunity to transfer out of the service free of charge. This had been followed up with 
further letters detailing  what the fees would be going  forward  if the investment remained with 
Barclays. 
The switch  to an execution-only service  took place in July 2014. From that point on, quarterly 
statements were issued  to the trustees, which confirmed that there was a new charging  
structure. Barclays therefore felt that it had done  sufficient  to make the changes clear,  so it 
didnt uphold  the complaint. It did, however, offer £250  for the delays in handling  the matter.
Our investigator also didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said shed  seen 
nothing to show that any fees were  applied outside  the terms sent in 2014.She noted that 
Mrs J had argued the fees and charges werent made clear and were disproportionate. But 
the investigator felt the trust would always have incurred some  cost for the service Barclays  
provided. And generally speaking, provided the fees were  made  clear,  they would be a 
matter for Barclays to decide  commercially. 
The investigator was satisfied on balance that the information was correctly sent to the trust. 
She noted that although the statements  didnt  specifically say what fees were charged they 
did explain  that "a detailed breakdown of any fee, commission  or other  charge  is available 
on request". The investigator  therefore  felt that Barclays had done sufficient to communicate 
the charging structure.
Mrs J didnt agree with the investigators assessment. She disputed that Barclays  had sent 
the information and reiterated her concerns about communication in general. She noted that 
she was only seeking the return of a very small percentage of the fees charged  some  4%, 
or around  £800   as compensation for the problems.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change her view that Barclays had applied the charges 
correctly. So as no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I appreciate the frustration  Mrs J says shes experienced when dealing with Barclays  and I 
understand that a previous complaint relating  to the trust has been upheld,  in part. But in the 
Ref: DRN80517592specific circumstances of this complaint Im not persuaded that Barclays  has acted  
incorrectly or unfairly. 
Im satisfied that Barclays sent out sufficient, clear  information about what  changes were 
being proposed.  And that reasonable  opportunity was given for action to be taken to move  
the investment  away from Barclays. 
Im conscious that much  of this information was provided prior to Mrs J becoming a trustee. 
And, as such, it may be that, through no fault of her own, she wasnt  as aware of what  had 
had changed as she wouldve been if shed been a trustee at the time. 
But equally,  I dont  think it would be fair to hold Barclays  responsible  for this, for the reasons 
given. It appears to have  done sufficient and cant reasonably  have been  expected  to adapt 
its communication to each  and every circumstance.     
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I do not uphold. I simply leave Mrs J to 
accept Barclays offer of £250 for the delays in handling the complaint should  she now wish 
to do so.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8051759