K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that she was mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI)  when she took 
out a loan with Lloyds  Bank Plc (Lloyds).
background
Mrs T took out a loan with Lloyds in 1995. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy  which 
wouldve covered  the repayments on her loan for up to 12 months at a time if she was made 
redundant, or for up to the full term of the loan if she was too ill to work. It also provided life 
cover for any outstanding  balance. 
The cost of the policy was added to her loan and she paid interest on it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. Mrs T disagrees, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ts 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
The loan and PPI were sold over 22 years  ago, so its not surprising that neither party has 
retained any documents from the time. Mrs T says she remembers  feeling like she had to 
have the PPI in order  to qualify for the loan. But Mrs T hasnt explained what  was said to 
make her feel this way; and she doesnt  have any other memory of the sale of the loan or 
PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  a sample  of the credit  agreement  that was in use at the time of sale.  I 
think its likely this is the same one that Mrs T completed. I can see that the form made it 
clear that the PPI was optional. If Mrs T had been  told otherwise I think  shed  have queried  it 
when she saw the agreement. I can see that Mrs T wouldve  had to give her consent  for the 
PPI to be added,  too.
On the limited information I have I think its most  likely  Mrs T bought  the PPI knowing she 
had a choice about it.
Lloyds says it likely gave  Mrs T a personal  recommendation to buy the PPI. So it had an 
obligation to take reasonable steps  to make sure it was right for her. Looking at Mrs Ts 
circumstances at the time I think it was suitable  for her. I say this because:
Mrs T was eligible  for the cover  and wouldnt have been affected by any terms which 
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or elf-employment;
Mrs T says she wasnt entitled to any contractual sick pay or redundancy pay. The 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to any statutory redundancy entitlement,  and for 
up to a year at a time. It also wouldve paid out until Mrs T returned to work or the 
Ref: DRN83821472loan was paid off if she was too sick to work. So I think  the policy provided a useful  
additional benefit.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  policies on the market offering a 
similar benefit around the same time. While I can see that Mrs T may not have 
received a proportionate  refund of the premiums  if she cancelled the PPI or paid the 
loan off early, I havent seen  anything to suggest  this was something  she was 
contemplating at the time of sale. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest the cost of the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs T.
Lloyds also had to make sure it gave  Mrs T enough  information about the policy  so she 
could make an informed  decision  about buying it. I can see that its likely Mrs T wasnt  
clearly told how much interest shed pay on the PPI premium. But it was a comparatively 
small amount and I dont  think  if shed  known this figure it wouldve put her off buying it. 
So, on balance, I dont  think Mrs T lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done 
wrong. 
Mrs T has also complained that the loan was unethical. I cant  consider this here, but if Mrs 
T has concerns about the lending decision then she should  address these  to Lloyds in the 
first instance.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8382147