K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  with the settlement and the delays in dealing  with their home 
insurance claim for damage  in respect  of their contents by Legal & General  Insurance  
Limited (L&G).
background
In October  2017 Mr and Mrs R had a fire in their garage. L&G accepted  the claim for 
damage to buildings and contents. Mr and Mrs R complained to us about the initial  delays, in 
respect of which an ombudsman issued a final decision awarding  compensation. A final 
response letter in respect  of those delays had been sent by L&G on 9 January 2018 and it 
was to that point  which  the previous ombudsman considered matters. So this decision 
concerns the claim settlement and any delays which occurred after 9 January  2018.
Mr and Mrs R complained  that they were put under pressure to draw up a list of contents just 
after the fire and were  told they could add items  at a later date. When they compiled a more  
extensive list, this was queried by L&G. They also asked for the salvage companys list of 
items several times  from early December 2017  but didnt receive it until late January 2018.
Further they complained that several  items were classified as car parts or accessories and 
that if theyd been told that before the contents were cleared out they might have been  able 
to salvage them. Also they thought  it was unfair  to classify as a car part a 1930s headlamp  
and some items taken  off the car while a tow bar was fitted.  They also said that some items 
of motorcycle clothing had deductions for wear and tear, as did some baby clothes for their 
still born baby.
L&G offered  £100 for the delays. It also pointed out that the baby clothes were paid in full 
and that there was a deduction of £4 for waterproofs but otherwise the motorcycle clothing  
was paid in full.
On referral to this service  overall our investigator thought that L&G had acted reasonably  
and that its compensation offer was reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delays
I know Mr and Mrs R were unhappy at being  asked to compile  a list of contents so soon after 
the fire but I think  that, however stressful it was to them, it was a reasonable thing  to do as 
there is an urgency  to clear fire damaged  items away.  Nevertheless  I can understand it if, 
having been assured that they could add items later, when they drew  up a more  extensive 
list they were unhappy that L&G queried  it and said it was a much  more extensive list. They 
were also unhappy  that L&G then asked  to reassess the total contents value. But I think that 
thats the point  of L&Gs response  it wasnt the fact of adding a few items but that the list 
had nearly doubled in value. So I think that L&G was entitled  to raise the queries and check  
that the contents werent underinsured.
But I have noted  that Mr and Mrs R had to ask several times for the list made by the salvage 
company. This took over six weeks to be provided. Ive noted  that payment in settlement 
Ref: DRN82301712was sent out in February 2018 but I agree that the failure to supply  the list did cause a delay. 
L&G offered  £100 for this and I think thats  reasonable  in the circumstances.
car parts and accessories
Mr and Mrs R complain that a 1930s  headlamp and a bumper reinforcer and fog light which 
Mr R had removed from his car to fit a tow bar, and a media unit were not accepted  despite  
them not being what he described as spares or accessories. As was a caravan awning and 
inner tent.
The policy excludes  vehicles or their parts or accessories . (my emphasis)  an 
exclusion found in most  home insurance policies.  With regard to the 1930s headlamp I 
understand that this was a gift from a neighbour which Mr R had had for a number of years. 
But it was still a car part and kept in the garage (rather than being kept as part of collection  
or as a collectable).
The other parts were  also car parts or accessories. The difference being that an accessory 
might be regarded as something extra. But the difference here isnt important as both are 
excluded.
Also the policy  excludes Caravans, trailers,  or  their parts  or accessories. Which is why 
the caravan awning  and inner tent (but not other camping items) were  excluded.
Mr and Mrs R further complain that had they known the parts  and accessories were  
excluded they might have been able to salvage some of them.  Mr R says before the salvage 
company came they were told not to remove anything by L&G. But it is speculative  to say 
that the items could have been  salvaged. I cant say that if Mr and Mrs R had been 
specifically told about the exclusion before the salvage company removed the items, that 
they would  have been able to salvage  them. From  the evidence  of what  was removed, which  
appeared to be just about everything, it seems  unlikely. 
clothing deduction for wear and tear
Mr R says that motorbike clothing had a deduction for wear and tear when it should have 
been treated as a safety item. In fact the only such item with a deduction was a waterproof 
which was over two years  old and had £4 deducted.  With regard to the baby clothing  
although it was initially proposed that there be a deduction, it was paid for in full. So I think 
that L&G acted  reasonably in this respect.
drawing up contents  list/ lying about  the items
Mr R says he spent several days drawing up a detailed contents list. He felt that this was 
L&Gs job and that it had promised to do this for several weeks.  While I note what Mr R says,  
the list was very extensive and covered nearly £30,000 worth of items. In any insurance 
claim it is for the consumer  to prove  their loss and this would include itemising  the contents 
lost. I dont propose to award any additional compensation.
Mr R also says L&G lied to him about  the motorcycle  gear and the age of it in order  to 
reduce the claim. I cant say whether L&G lied  but Ive set out my view in respect of those 
items and would observe that there was only a £4 reduction. In any contents claim there  
might be proposals and counter proposals   it doesnt show bad faith on the part of L&G..
Ref: DRN82301713overall
I think L&G was responsible for some delays in not passing on the salvage companys list to 
Mr and Mrs R but I think  the compensation offered of £100 was reasonable. If L&G hasnt 
paid this and they want to accept the payment then Mr and Mrs R should  approach  L&G 
directly. I think that L&G acted reasonably in dealing with and settling this claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against Legal & General Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8230171