K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) in 2001.
background
The MPPI covered  Mr and Mrs A against  accident,  sickness and unemployment. The policy 
cost approximately  £24.90 per month.  If either had made a successful claim, the MPPI policy 
wouldve paid out a monthly benefit of £205.53 for up to 24 months.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer to Halifax in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
The policy was sold over 17 years  ago so it isnt surprising that neither Mr and Mrs A nor 
Halifax have copies of all the paperwork completed at the time. I also have to take into 
account that memories  can fade over time. For instance Mr and Mrs A have told us the 
policy was sold to them during a meeting. But it looks more likely it was sold during a 
telephone conversation with the paperwork being posted to them.  In cases  like this, where  
the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I make  my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  that is, on what  I think is most  likely to have happened. 
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies around this time 
and the documents weve seen in the past.  And, on balance, the paperwork in these cases 
made it clear  to consumers that the policy was optional and they would have been asked for 
their consent  to the cover. The premiums for the policy  would either have appeared on their 
mortgage statement  or their bank  statements.  If the policy was something  they didnt ask for 
or want,  Id expect  them to have questioned it at an early stage, but Ive not seen any 
evidence they did so.
So taking everything into account I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs A were told they had a 
choice about whether  to buy the policy or not, and they chose to take it.
Halifax says its adviser  wouldve recommended  that Mr and Mrs A buy the policy. So Halifax 
had a duty to make  sure it was right for them. And from what Ive seen I think it was.
Both Mr and Mrs A seem to have been eligible for the policy.  They were not affected by 
anything the policy didnt cover such as medical  conditions they were already aware of.
Mr and Mrs A wouldve received sick pay from their employers .But this particular MPPI 
policy couldve paid a benefit for up to 24 months  in addition to their sick pay. Most likely that 
would be for much longer than any sick pay wouldve lasted. So if Mr or Mrs A had become 
unwell I think they wouldve  found  the policy useful, particularly  if they were  unable to work  
for a prolonged spell.
Ref: DRN84985512The policy would also pay a benefit  for up to 24 months if either Mr or Mrs A lost their job. 
Although they may have got some redundancy pay if that happened, the policy  would allow 
them to use any redundancy pay towards other  living  costs.  
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs A, Halifax also had to give them 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading.  
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs A all the information it shouldve.  But from 
what Ive seen the policy was right for them and I think its likely they were interested in this 
type of cover. The cost of the policy seems to have been comparable to other, similar 
policies on the market at the time,  and Ive not seen  anything to make  me think the 
premiums were not affordable. So even if Halifax had given Mr and Mrs A clear information  
about the policy and the premiums, I still think theyd have bought  it.
In summary  I think its most likely  the policy was presented as optional and Mr and Mrs A 
chose to buy it. It looks like Halifax recommended a policy  that was right for them, and I dont 
think any clearer information wouldve made Mr and Mrs A change their mind about applying  
for the policy. 
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs A paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs A 
back some  of the cost of the MPPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If its not already  done so Halifax will make  arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs A now Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8498551