K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  (Bank of 
Scotland) mis-sold them a monthly premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a secured loan with Bank of Scotland  in 1992 during a meeting. The 
loan was to be repaid  over a period of 252 months. Mr and Mrs W were sold a PPI policy in 
connection with this loan at the same time.
Although the loan was in joint names, the PPI only covered Mr W. It would have covered him 
for up to 60 months if he was off work sick and for up to 24 months if he lost his job. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and didnt think  it should  be upheld.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint has been passed  to 
me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W will be 
disappointed by this outcome. However, it is of course up to them  whether they wish to 
accept or reject my decision. 
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
First of all Ive thought  about  whether Mr W was eligible under the policy. Based  on, amongst 
other things,  Mr Ws age and employment at the time of the sale,  Im satisfied  he was 
eligible.
Next Ive looked at whether Bank of Scotland made it sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs W that 
the policy was optional. Mr and Mrs W have  told us that they were totally unaware they had 
been sold PPI and that they would never have knowingly agreed to it because they had 
sufficient existing repayment provisions in place  such as the large benefit amount on their 
mortgage PPI policy  and Mr Ws employee  benefits. Mr W also makes the point  that if he 
had known he had PPI then he would have  made  a claim on it, just as he had done  on their 
mortgage PPI policy,  when he was out of work for a few months in 1995/1996.  So they say 
its clear that no discussion could have taken place  about PPI.
I cant know for sure what happened  during the sale so Ive thought carefully about what  Mr 
and Mrs W and Bank of Scotland have told us and looked to the documents from the time of 
the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened  during the sale.
Ref: DRN80217402In particular, Bank of Scotland have  sent us a copy of the loan agreement from the time of 
the sale, signed by Mr and Mrs W.  This  had two equally clear options  to either take or 
refuse PPI  specifically, it had yes or no boxes to be marked next to the question  asking  if 
they wanted to take out the PPI policy. I can see that the yes box has been  marked and 
below it the cost of the policy has been  set out. Mr and Mrs Ws signatures were  directly to 
the left of this section.  So although I note what Mr W says about placing trust in the Bank,  I 
think the PPI section wouldve been clear  for Mr and Mrs W to see when they signed the 
form and I think they would have known that they could have specified that the no box be 
selected if they didnt want to take PPI.
So, while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs W have told us about not knowing they had PPI and 
the reasons they have provided  in support, based  on the evidence available to me, I cant  
say this is because  Bank  of Scotland did something  wrong with the way they presented the  
policy. The agreement shows Mr and Mrs W were  presented with an option to take PPI and 
it was only applied to the account  because Mr and Mrs W chose to take it out.
 
Having found  that Mr and Mrs W chose to take the policy out, Ive gone on to consider 
whether there were any other  aspects  of the sale which  might  mean  the policy was mis-sold. 
Although Mr and Mrs W say PPI wasnt discussed, Bank of Scotland  say they advised  Mr W 
to take PPI. This would hold Bank of Scotland to a higher bar in that they would need to 
have taken adequate steps  to ensure that PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs W.  They  would 
not have needed to do this if they hadnt  advised Mr and Mrs W to take PPI.
So Ive gone  on to consider whether there  were any aspects of the policy  which meant the 
policy wasnt suitable in their circumstances. In doing so I have looked at Mr Ws other  
repayment means, whether there were any exclusions  in the policy  which would have made  
it difficult for Mr W to make a successful claim under the policy  and whether the policy  was 
affordable for Mr and Mrs W.  Mr W says the policy wasnt suitable for them because they 
had sufficient cover in place. Due to the length of time since  the policy was taken out, I cant  
say whether Bank of Scotland took all of the steps  as they should have. But I do think  the 
policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W. I will go on to explain  why.
Mr W has told us that he was entitled  to employer benefits and he would have received a 
generous amount of sick pay and redundancy pay. However, the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this and for a longer period  of time than Mr Ws employee  sick pay. It would have 
paid a monthly benefit for up to 60 months  if Mr W was off work  sick. And it would have paid 
a monthly benefit  for 24 months  if Mr W lost his job. So I dont think the existence of 
employee benefits made this policy unsuitable.
I note what Mr W says about the benefit of his mortgage PPI cover being sufficient to cover  
their mortgage repayments as well as the repayments on this loan. He says the reason he 
took out such a large cover amount on his mortgage  PPI was to have sufficient  cover  in 
place for the possibility  that they might take out a short term loan at some point and this 
might have been with another  provider.  However, from my understanding  of how these 
mortgage PPI policies worked, the cover amount would cover  the mortgage  repayment and 
consumers could take a further  maximum percentage  amount out but this would normally  be 
for related expenses, not to cover possible potential future  loan repayments.  So I think its 
more likely that the amount of the mortgage  PPI cover would have been based on Mr and 
Mrs W requirements at the time of taking out their mortgage keeping  in mind their mortgage 
repayments and related  expenses, it would not have taken into account the further borrowing 
that Mr and Mrs W went on to take into account  in 1992 which was a good  few years after 
the mortgage had been taken out. 
Ref: DRN80217403In any event, just because the benefit  amount was higher than the mortgage repayment, 
doesnt mean that the PPI policy on this loan was unsuitable. As well as paying their 
mortgage and loan repayments,  Mr and Mrs W would have had other  essential  living  
expenses that needed to be taken  care of. So the additional amount  on the mortgage PPI 
could have taken  care of such expenses while the PPI on the loan would have met the loan 
repayments.
Mr and Mrs W have  also told us they had savings. However, its not clear how much they 
would have had in savings at the time of the sale as Mr W has explained that the savings 
fluctuated substantially. So I cant say that Mr and Mrs W had sufficient savings at the time 
of the sale to make the policy unsuitable  for them. But even if Mr and Mrs W did have 
savings at the time of the sale, Mr W has explained  that their savings were  mostly invested 
in bonds and shares which they could have sold if they needed  to. So it doesnt seem  as 
though they were readily accessible.  Even  if they were, Mr W has explained that if they 
wanted to keep them then if they required cash for something they would have taken a loan 
with Halifax. So even  if Mr and Mrs W did have savings at the time of the sale then its clear  
that they chose  to take out a secured loan instead of realising their assets. The loan had an 
APR of 17.5% and I think that if they chose to take out this loan rather than realise their 
assets, I dont think the PPI would have been  unsuitable for them as it looks like they were 
reluctant to use their investments. So I dont think the existence of savings, if any, in these 
particular circumstances  is enough  for me to say the PPI wasnt suitable.  
Ive also checked  the main  exclusions  and restrictions  of the policy  and it doesnt look like  
Mr W would  have been caught out by any of them. So it looks like he could have made  a 
successful claim  under  the policy if the need arose.  I understand that Mr W has said that he 
was out of work for some  months in 1995/1996.  He says he didnt make a claim then 
because he didnt know he had this policy but tried more recently to make a back dated  
claim with Bank of Scotland which appears  (though I dont know the exact situation) wasnt 
successful. However, my decision relates solely to whether or not the policy  was mis-sold 
and does not touch upon whether  or not Bank  of Scotland were  correct  in not allowing Mr W 
to make a backdated claim.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly in the credit agreement and I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs W. And Mr and Mrs W 
could have cancelled  the policy at any time without losing out financially.
Bank of Scotland also had to give Mr and Mrs W clear information about the policy so that 
they could make an informed decision about  whether or not take PPI out. In particular they 
should have given Mr and Mrs W clear  information  about the cost,  benefits, main exclusions 
and restrictions of the policy. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr and Mrs W the information  as clearly as they 
should have. However,  this in itself doesnt mean  the policy  was mis-sold as I have to go on 
and consider whether better  information about  the policy would  have put them of taking it 
out. I dont  think it would have for the same  reasons that I think the policy was suitable for 
them.
Finally, Mr and Mrs W complained that Bank of Scotland upheld another complaint they 
made. They told us that it was similar to this one, and that therefore  they think  this complaint 
should be upheld  also. I understand  the view held by Mr and Mrs W, but each complaint 
Ref: DRN80217404depends on its own particular circumstances and based on the evidence available  to me in 
this particular case, I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold Mr and Mrs W this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8021740