K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. This was done via an online application  process.  Ms T says Barclays  Bank  Plc 
(Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ts case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was taken  out during an online application.  Barclays should have made Ms T aware 
she had a choice  about buying the PPI. Ms T says she wasnt told the policy  was optional  
and was led to believe she had to take the PPI to get the credit card.  
Barclays has explained the sales process and given us screenshots of how the PPI wouldve 
been shown to Ms T at the time of the sale. I have no reason to think  Ms T wouldve seen 
something different.  So Ive looked  carefully at these screenshots  and I can see Ms T would 
have been given a choice  to select yes or no to buy the policy.  There is nothing to suggest  
the policy was compulsory or that Ms T wouldve been declined  for the credit if she had 
opted to not take the PPI. 
So, I think Barclays made it clear  that Ms T didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out.
As this policy was taken  out online with no interaction with a Barclays representative I think 
its unlikely Barclays recommend the PPI to Ms T. So it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Ms T got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Looking at the screenshots, its possible the information Barclays gave  Ms T about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   
such as unusual working patterns or existing  medical conditions. And the PPI wouldve paid out 
on top of any sick pay and redundancy benefits Ms T was entitled to. 
It doesnt look like Ms T had any other means   such as savings   she could have relied upon if 
shed been unable to make her repayments. Ive noted her comments that her partner wouldve 
had helped out and while I dont doubt  her partner wouldve wanted to help, peoples  
circumstances can change. So I dont think this help could be guaranteed. Overall, I think  it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. 
Ms T has said she couldnt afford the policy, but from what Ive been given, I havent seen any 
substantial evidence to show  the PPI wasnt affordable. Taking everything into account,  I dont  
think better information about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms T.
Ref: DRN85559382But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms T because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms T about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Ms T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Ms T feels  strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes  put time and 
effort into her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points shes raised, including 
that she says she hasnt claimed  on the policy even though she has been made redundant 
twice. But looking at the information  Ive been given, it looks like the policy was cancelled  in 
November 2004.  As this was before she got made redundant this point doesnt  change my 
decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms T.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Ms T any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8555938