K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Valour Finance Limited (trading as Lightning Loans) provided him with a 
loan he couldnt  afford to repay.
background
Mr E took out a £1,000  loan with Lightning  Loans  in January 2014. The loan was repayable 
over 12 monthly instalments of around £183.  He says that at the time of the loan he was 
experiencing financial difficulties and was taking out short  term loans with a number of 
different providers. He says the loan trapped him in a spiral of debt as he had to borrow 
more each month to meet  his repayments.  
Mr E says that Lightning Loans didnt carry out sufficient checks before providing the loan 
and that had it done so it would have realised the loan wasnt suitable. 
Lightning Loans says that before  the loan was provided gathered information on Mr Es 
income and expenditure and it undertook a credit check. It says that at the time of the loan 
Mr E said he had no other payday loans outstanding but did have two credit cards. It says 
based on the information it received it was reasonable that the loan was provided.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Although he thought  further checks  shouldve 
taken place he said that there wasnt  anything  in the information  provided or the information 
Lightning Loans shouldve been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to 
start verifying Mr Es information. 
Mr E didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He said that our adjudicator had agreed the 
checks werent sufficient and so his complaint  should be upheld. He said his bank 
statements showed he was in financial hardship and that had these been  requested  
Lightning Loans would have been aware of this. He also said that his credit score  was poor 
and had further information been checked  by Lightning Loans  it would have realised  he was 
in debt to other short term lenders and was using these loans to survive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lightning Loans needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr E could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lightning Loans should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN85110932the lower  a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);  and
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. When this loan was taken out the relevant guidance was provided by the Office of 
Fair trading (OFT). This set out the need to make a reasonable assessment of whether a 
borrower can afford to meet repayments in a sustainable manner. This refers to issues  such  
as being able to the make the repayments without undue difficulties throughout the life of the 
agreement and without  having to realise  security or assets. It then further  sets out that 
without undue difficulty means without having  to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
At the time of the loan Mr E said his monthly  income was £1,700  and his monthly expenses  
including credit commitments were recorded  as just over £1,100.  This left a disposable 
monthly income of around £560.  The repayments due were around  £183 and so based on 
the income and expenditure  information  gathered I do not find it unreasonable  that the loan 
was provided.
Mr E says that further checks should  have taken  place. Lightning Loans had to carry out 
proportionate checks and while in certain cases banks  statements may be requested I dont 
think these were required in this case.  I say this as this was Mr Es first loan with Lightning 
Loans and the information he had provided wasnt such that I would  have expected his bank 
statements to have  been checked or further verification to have taken place.
I have looked  through  the copy of the credit report that has been provided.  While I accept 
this is a more recent report  it does  show events from the time.  In this report  there  are 
defaults recorded but all apart from one were recorded after the loan was provided. While  
there is a default  recorded in August 2013,  I dont  think this is enough to say that the loan 
shouldnt have been provided.
Overall, while  I understand Mr Es concerns I do not find that I have enough to say the loan 
shouldnt have been provided and therefore I do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8511093