K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about how Hargreaves Lansdown  Asset Management Limited  (HL) pay 
income from his SIPP account.
background
Mr P receives income payments from his SIPP on a quarterly basis. Hes unhappy  that, once 
his income has been paid,  hes sometimes been left with no cash balance with which  to pay 
the following  months fees. 
That happened in March 2018, when the monthly credit  into his SIPP was received in time to 
be included  in his quarterly income  payment. That meant there  was no cash  left in his 
account and so HL sold £50 of stock to cover  the next fees that were due. A similar situation 
arose in September 2018.
Mr P complains that hes being penalised because HLs automated  systems are inadequate.  
He says the minimum cash balance facility on his account should allow him to keep enough 
cash in his account to pay any fees.  
Mr P also complains about the tax implications of whats  happened. He says that cash left in 
his account to cover the fees wouldnt be subject  to tax. But when all the cash  is paid to him 
as income it becomes taxable. 
HL didnt uphold  Mr Ps complaint. They did however reverse  the sale of stock that took 
place in April 2018, and paid Mr P £50 in compensation  for the phone  calls he made and the 
frustration caused  to him.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. She said the ombudsman service  cant  tell a 
business how they should set up their systems. But she thought information given to Mr P 
was misleading  because it suggested he could  manage his account through the minimum 
cash balance. She thought HL should pay Mr P a further £100  in compensation for this. 
Both Mr P and HL disagree with our investigators view and have asked for an ombudsman  
to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators findings on Mr Ps complaint.
The ombudsman service  isnt the regulator  and we cant  tell a business to change their 
systems. So we cant tell HL when and how to process Mr Ps income  payments, or how to 
operate any other aspect of their customers  accounts. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account. They make clear  that its Mr Ps 
responsibility to ensure  theres enough cash in his account to cover any fees. They  also 
allow for HL to sell investments where  theres insufficient cash available to pay outstanding 
fees. 
Ref: DRN81084702HL have said they contact customers when fees are due on an account and theres no cash  
available to pay them. I can see they did that in Mr Ps case. 
For example, HL wrote to Mr P in April 2018  to tell him there  wasnt  enough cash in his 
account to cover the next charges. As its not possible  to top up his SIPP, HL suggested that 
Mr P consider opening a Fund  & Share account that the fees could be taken from. They  said 
theyd sell some  of his fund units if there wasnt enough cash  available.   
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think I can fairly  say HL have done anything  wrong  in the 
way theyve paid income to Mr P and taken steps  to cover the fees. I think HL have  acted in 
line with the terms  of Mr Ps account and explained things  clearly to him.
Mr P has said the minimum cash balance facility should enable  him to ensure he has 
enough cash to pay any fees. 
HL have said the minimum cash balance is a guideline and not a facility to ring-fence  funds.  
They say its designed to give clients an indication of how much cash they could  leave on 
their account  in order to meet fees due over the next few months. And their system doesnt 
allow it to work in the way that Mr P believes it should.
I can see that some of the information  provided  by HL makes  clear that the minimum cash 
balance is just a guideline. But I agree with our investigator  that not all the information 
provided to Mr P was as clear as it could  have been. 
Ive seen a factsheet  provided by HL to assist clients with the management of cash  on their 
account for both income payment and fees.  It says, you could use the default suggested 
minimum cash balance to help you manage your portfolio. 
 
Based on all the information Mr P would have seen,  I can understand why he might have 
thought the facility would enable him to manage his account in the way he would like. 
HL have now explained the position  clearly and given Mr P alternative options. But I think 
they should compensate Mr P for the inconvenience  caused to him. And I agree with our 
investigator that it would  be fair for them  to pay Mr P an additional £100.
Mr P has also said hes paying extra tax because money that should be left in his account to 
cover the fees is being paid to him as income.  But I think  HL paid income to Mr P in line with 
his instructions. And the terms and conditions  of Mr Ps account  make clear hes responsible  
for the management  of his tax affairs, and that HL are not responsible for the personal tax 
liability that may arise  on a transaction.
HL have suggested to Mr P how he could avoid this situation arising  in the future  either  by 
setting up a separate account or requesting  a specific amount to be paid to him each  
quarter, to ensure  he has enough cash left to pay the upcoming fees. 
I understand that Mr P feels the options suggested by HL are inconvenient to him, and hes 
made a number of alternative proposals to HL. But, as Ive said, its not for our service to tell 
HL they should change  their processes. I dont think HL have acted unreasonably, or treated 
Mr P unfairly. And its up to Mr P to decide  how he wishes to proceed  in the light of the 
options that HL have  offered. 
Ref: DRN81084703my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold in part Mr Ps complaint 
against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management  Limited.  
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mr P a further £100 in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8108470