K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 on a 
credit card. Ms B says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ms B thinks she took the policy out during  a telephone call. But Ive seen a copy  of the 
application form Ms B completed when she took out her credit  card out. Looking at that it 
looks like the application was done by post. 
On the application it includes a section  called Insure  your payments which asked if she 
wanted to take out PPI cover. Ms B has ticked yes, but there was also the option  for her to 
tick no if she hadnt wanted the cover. And Ms B has made other  selections  on the 
application form and signed it. So, I think Capital One made  it clear  Ms B had a choice about 
taking the PPI and she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this.  
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Ms B so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Ms B got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.  
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Ms B says 
she had between six and 12 months sick pay benefits from her employer but the policy 
wouldve paid out alongside these benefits.  And the policy wouldve also covered her if she 
had been made redundant. It doesnt look like she had any other  means to make  her 
repayments. So I think it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Ms B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms B and her representative have said - including what  her 
representative has said about there  being other court cases in relation to non-disclosure  of 
Ref: DRN80648382commission where consumers have received everything back. So it thinks Capital One 
should refund all of the money  paid for the PPI plus interest.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Ms Bs complaint is the law. But I also need  to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Capital  One has made Ms B an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Ms Bs 
representative wants Capital One to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Ms B and her complaint to see if theres  
anything about  her that would mean  the business  should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Ms B. But 
there isnt anything about Ms Bs complaint  or circumstances that suggest the redress paid 
by Capital One isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Capital  Ones offer is a fair way to resolve this case. So this point doesnt 
change my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8064838