K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a cash machine withdrawal made with 
her card for £300. Mrs P says she did not make or authorise the withdrawal.
what happened
On 21 May 2018, Mrs Ps purse  was stolen, and the thief tried to use her cards for cash  
withdrawals.
They were  unable to make any withdrawals on Mrs Ps Santander  credit  card and current 
account, as they did not use the correct  PIN. However, they did withdraw £300 from Mrs Ps 
savings account,  using the correct  PIN on the first try.
Mrs P soon realised her purse was missing and reported the cards  as lost. She disputed the 
withdrawal as she hadnt authorised it.
Mrs P explained that she had never  told anyone her PIN and had destroyed  the PIN advice 
slip. Her PIN was the random  one the bank gave  her, and was not memorable or shared with 
another account. She said she had trouble remembering  it herself, and so shed had to go to 
a branch to make  her previous withdrawals.
Santander didnt  refund the disputed withdrawal. They  pointed  out that Mrs P hadnt used 
this PIN with this card before, so no one could have  found out the PIN by watching her enter 
it. And there  was no other plausible way they couldve  learned it, unless shed kept it written  
down in her purse. So Santander thought  it was most likely that Mrs P had knowingly failed 
to keep her account  safe by keeping the PIN written  down. 
Mrs Ps representative disagreed, saying the thief could have guessed  the PIN, or there 
could have been a fault with the ATM.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She explained she was 
satisfied the real card and correct PIN were used for the withdrawal. The person making the 
withdrawal had got the PIN right the first time, it was extremely  unlikely they guessed it, they 
couldnt have  learned it by watching Mrs P use it, and it was not a number Mrs P had 
chosen. So she thought the most  plausible explanation  was that Mrs P had written  it down  in 
an identifiable way, which would mean  shed  failed with gross negligence to keep her 
account safe. 
Mrs Ps representative asked for an ombudsman to decide the complaint, so the case  has 
been passed to me.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Ref: DRN84257412Broadly, Santander  can hold Mrs P liable for the withdrawal  in dispute if the evidence 
suggests its most likely  she authorised it, or if she failed to take reasonable steps to keep 
her account  safe either intentionally or with gross  negligence.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that the person  who made the withdrawal  
used Mrs Ps genuine card, and the correct PIN. This is not enough, on its own, for 
Santander to hold Mrs P liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests  
that its most  likely  Mrs P consented to the withdrawal  or not; or whether she failed to 
reasonably keep her account safe, or not.
I dont think that Mrs P consented  to the withdrawal.  What shes told us about  her purse 
being stolen is plausible  and consistent.  And shortly after she says her purse  was stolen,  
someone tried to use her cards very quickly to withdraw large amounts of cash. 
However, having carefully considered  everything  that both sides have said and provided, 
I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to hold Mrs P liable for the £300 withdrawal. Ill 
explain why.
As I said above, Im satisfied that the genuine card and correct PIN were used for this 
withdrawal. Based on the evidence I have, theres nothing  to suggest that the ATM  was not 
working properly, or that this would somehow allow the thief to use the incorrect PIN. Indeed, 
they tried to use Mrs Ps other Santander cards at the same ATM and were blocked from 
doing so because they couldnt get the PIN right.
As Mrs Ps representative pointed  out, it is possible that the thief guessed  the correct  PIN on 
the first try. But its not plausible  its extremely unlikely to have happened.  Its far more 
likely that an alternative explanation  is correct.  And I need to base my assessment on whats  
most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities.
The thief wouldnt have  learned the PIN by watching Mrs P enter it, as she doesnt  seem to 
have used this PIN before  the withdrawal, and hadnt used the account at all in a month and 
half. Mrs P said the number wasnt memorable or the same as another accounts PIN  it 
was the random number the bank had given her. And she said she hadnt told it to anyone.
That leaves only one plausible  possibility,  which is that there was a written record  of the PIN 
which the thief was able to access and recognise  as a PIN. Indeed, Mrs P did explain shed 
had trouble remembering the PIN, and thats  why shed gone to a branch to make  
withdrawals before. That would explain why she mightve then kept a written record of it, so 
she wouldnt  have to keep  going into branches.
If thats the case, that would mean Mrs P had failed to keep her account safe in line with the 
terms and conditions. It may be that she did this knowingly, or that she didnt  remember  that 
shed left a record  of the PIN with the card. But it is widely understood that keeping a note of 
the PIN with the card is very risky, since anyone who has the card is then able to use it 
without further  checks   which seems to be what  happened here. And theres no other  
plausible conclusion I can reasonably reach given the evidence  I have.
This is a difficult message  for me to give, and I know  it will be a difficult one for Mrs P to 
receive. I accept that Mrs P has been the victim of a crime here, and she has my sympathy.  
But based  on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Santander not to refund the withdrawal 
because its most likely that Mrs P intentionally, or with gross negligence, didnt take proper 
care of her security  details.
Ref: DRN84257413my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8425741