K820x#14complaint
1. Mr and Mrs G complained  through a representative  that Legal & General  
Partnership Services Limited  (LGPS) is responsible for a breach of fiduciary duty in 
connection with the sale of a single-premium mortgage payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by its Appointed Representative, AWD Home Finance Ltd (AWD).
background
2. Ive attached my provisional  decision  from February 2020, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt propose to uphold  Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint. I invited  LGPS  and Mr and Mrs G to send in any further comments 
or evidence they wanted  me to consider by 12 March 2020,  before I reached a final 
decision. LGPS and Mr and Mrs G made further  submissions, which  I have 
summarised and considered  below. 
my findings
3. Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
4. In its response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative  sent in a 
copy of a decision, issued in 2015 by another ombudsman at this service, in a 
separate complaint  about the sale of wills and estate planning services by AWD, 
where the cost of the service  was added to the consumers mortgage borrowing. The 
ombudsman decided that the advice  given on these  services was ancillary to the 
mortgage sale and therefore this service  had the power  to consider the complaint 
against LGPS as AWDs principal.
5. In summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative  said that, based on that decision,  the sale 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G was also financed  by the mortgage  borrowing, so LGPS 
was also responsible for the actions of AWD and was obliged to ensure that the clients  
were protected. It went on to say that, regardless  of whether AWD had a fiduciary  
relationship with the client,  the key issue is what relationship  LGPS had with the 
clients.
6. Mr and Mrs Gs representative also sent in a sample copy  of an arrangement fee 
agreement, from 2006, citing  part of the text saying that the client  engages the 
Arranger to act on their behalf  to facilitate secured credit or loan facilities in connection 
with financing of residential  freehold. And the fee the client  pays 'is for the Arranger's 
services and expertise in arranging  the clients new mortgage package.
7. Mr and Mrs Gs representative made  further  submissions, referring  to Wood  v 
Commercial First Business  Ltd (In Liquidation) [2019] EWHC 2205 (Ch) (Wood ) and 
an article summarising  the key points of the case.  Mr and Mrs Gs representative  
seems to be suggesting here that LGPS was effectively acting as Mr and Mrs Gs 
agent. In this submission it also quoted a definition of a Principal that it says is from the 
FCA website as follows:
A principal  is a firm that is authorised for certain  activities in the UK or regulated in 
another country in the European Economic Area (EEA), and has another  firm (its 
appointed representative or tied agent) act on its behalf.
Ref: DRN81216522The principal  is responsible for the activities of an appointed representative  or tied 
agent.
8. It also sent in a copy  of a letter, saying it is an example  of LGPS recently  writing  to 
former customers  of AWD regarding it being  responsible for the advice for the 
particular activity of using  regulated funds to purchase unregulated products.
9. Mr and Mrs Gs representative then sent in a later submission, referring to an 
unreported County Court  appeal case about commission  on a PPI policy,  where the 
claimants were  consumers (Mr and Mrs A) and the defendants were two related 
insurance companies  (the underwriters of Mr and Mrs As policy). Whilst the judge 
dismissed the appeal, he said in obiter comments that he would have concluded  that 
the brokers in that case were  fiduciaries of Mr and Mrs A. I should say here that the 
broker, the scheme provider and the defendants in Mr and Mrs As case  were not 
those in this complaint.
10. In summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative said that it considered that AWD had a 
closer and deeper relationship  with Mr and Mrs G than that in the case of Mr and Mrs 
A, so would have been  acting as fiduciaries. And LGPS  is responsible for the actions 
of its agent, especially as these issues all relate  to regulated  financial advice.
11. Mr and Mrs Gs representative  then sent in further submissions, referring to two other  
cases decided  at this service.  
12. The first case was not related to the sale of PPI, but the subject matter  was the 
responsibility of a Principal for the actions  of its Appointed Representative.
13. With regard to the second  case,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative  referred to the 
respondent in that case   also LGPS - having  refunded a payment made to AWD by a 
solicitor in respect of a referral  for legal services. Mr and Mrs Gs representative drew 
parallels between that refund and the commission it says AWD  received  in respect of 
Mr and Mrs Gs PPI policy.
14. Mr and Mrs Gs representative  has further  referred to payments due from AWD  to the 
scheme provider  and LGPS, which  were noted  in a Statement of Affairs prepared 
when AWD  (by then renamed Carrington Carr Home  Finance  Ltd) went  into 
administration in 2012 (before being dissolved  in 2015). It questioned why AWD would 
owe LGPS for redress payments if, as is claimed, it owed no fiduciary liability  to its 
clients and why the scheme  provider was a creditor three  years after the banning  of 
sales of single premium PPI. Mr and Mrs Gs representative had concluded this was as 
a result  of cancelled  PPI policies and the clawing-back of commissions.
15. LGPS  responded  to the provisional  decision to say that it agreed with the outcome. It 
confirmed that the text of the arrangement fee agreement  was still relevant in 2008,  
when Mr and Mrs G took out their PPI. 
16. After I issued  my provisional  decision, it was found that there was a later Appointed 
Representative Contract dated 2006, although the content was not significantly 
different, and was the same in terms of AWDs relationship with LGPS in relation to the 
PPI sale.
17. Whilst I have  summarised the points  made  in the responses  to my provisional 
decision, I have read and considered them all in detail.  
Ref: DRN8121652318. The first decision sent in by Mr and Mrs Gs representative was a jurisdiction decision 
 that is, one where the ombudsman was deciding  whether this service had the power 
to consider  the complaint. In that case, the activity complained about was not 
regulated in its own right,  but the ombudsman considered it to be ancillary to the sale 
of the mortgage. So in line with the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP)  in the FCA 
Handbook, that we have to apply, the ombudsman determined  that the complaint was 
within our jurisdiction.
19. In Mr and Mrs Gs case,  the complaint is about  commission  that they say was paid to 
AWD by the scheme  provider in relation to the sale of their PPI policy  in 2008. At that 
time the sale of PPI was regulated by the Financial Services Authority,  so I have the 
power under the DISP rules  to look at a complaint about it  I do not need to consider 
whether it was an ancillary  activity to the sale of the mortgage, (although I think  it was) 
or look at how the PPI premium  was funded, to determine my ability to look at Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint. 
20. As I mentioned above, Mr and Mrs Gs representative made reference to another case  
 unrelated  to the sale of PPI  where  the subject matter was the responsibility  of a 
Principal for the actions of its Appointed Representative. However, there  is no dispute 
that LGPS was AWDs Principal  and thus was responsible for AWDs regulated 
activities, including the sale of the PPI, as set out in the Appointed Representative 
Contract which I referred to in my provisional  decision. 
21. As I also explained,  the Contract  allowed for AWD to sell PPI cover  sourced from the 
scheme provider  rather  than LGPS.  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has referred to 
AWD being tied to the scheme  provider. However, AWD was not an Appointed 
Representative of the scheme provider  (and could  not have been under the terms of 
the Appointed Representative  Contract  with LGPS and in accordance  with regulatory 
rules). So it seems to me that AWD was only tied to the scheme provider  insofar as 
LGPS had given  its explicit permission in the Appointed Representative Contract for 
AWD to source  the PPI policies it offered from the scheme  provider.
22. For completeness, it is also worth noting that I have very little information  about the 
arrangements between the PPI scheme provider and AWD,  and whilst I would expect 
some remuneration  to have  been  paid, I do not have any evidence relating to a 
specific payment  in respect  of Mr and Mrs Gs PPI policy.  
23. I noted above that Mr and Mrs Gs representative said that, regardless of whether 
AWD had a fiduciary relationship with the client, the key issue  is what  relationship 
LGPS had with the clients.  I disagree.  LGPS did not have  a direct relationship with Mr 
and Mrs G, was not carrying out any services  for them  and, from the evidence I have, 
received no commission  for the PPI. As such LGPS was not acting as Mr and Mrs Gs 
agent. 
24. Instead, I consider  the key issue to be whether  AWD was acting  as Mr and Mrs Gs 
agent, and whether it owed  a fiduciary duty to them. I said in my provisional decision 
that if it did not, I could not find that failure  to disclose any commission paid on the PPI 
was a breach of such a duty. I also said that my provisional conclusion was that AWD 
did not owe a fiduciary duty to Mr and Mrs G  rather it was acting as agent for LGPS, 
as explicitly stated in the Appointed Representative Contract. 
25. I have looked at the arrangement fee agreement that Mr and Mrs Gs representative 
sent in. I note the agreement  only refers to the mortgage lending,  not the PPI. I accept  
that the language used  is consistent with that of agent, so it is possible that AWD  was 
Ref: DRN81216524acting as agent for Mr and Mrs G as well as for LGPS in the mortgage sale  although 
this would be unusual.  But the Initial Disclosure  Document that I referred  to in my 
provisional decision sets out the mortgage  and insurance services separately, and the 
recommendation for the PPI was contained  in a demands and needs  document which 
only covered insurance products  so it seems the mortgage recommendation was 
made separately. The Initial Disclosure Document also states  that there is no fee 
payable for AWDs insurance  services, so I think it was clear  that the arrangement fee 
only related to the mortgage. So Im not satisfied that I can draw  conclusions  about the 
sale of the PPI from the arrangement fee agreement for the mortgage.
26. Turning to the County Court  appeal case involving Mr and Mrs A, I have looked 
carefully at the judges reasons (paragraphs 32-35)  for concluding  that the brokers in 
that case owed a fiduciary duty to Mr and Mrs A, but I dont agree that the situation is 
directly comparable with that of Mr and Mrs G in this complaint.
27. I say this for several reasons. Firstly, the judge  referred  to Mr and Mrs As evidence  
that they were told they could not have the mortgage without  taking some  form of 
insurance and the PPI was linked to the mortgage, and he commented  that there was 
no evidence going  the other way. In Mr and Mrs Gs case I have a copy  of a demands  
and needs statement  signed by them  on each page  explicitly stating that the PPI 
was not a condition  of the mortgage.  
28. The judge in Mr and Mrs As case also referred  to the brokers in that case having 
made some selection of the product, even if from a limited number of sources, and 
They, therefore, were under  a duty to the claimants to select an item which was in 
their, the claimants,  best interests In Mr and Mrs Gs case AWD had only one PPI 
product on offer (with payment by either a single or monthly premium) so no 
product selection was involved. Mr and Mrs G had been informed of this.
29. Finally, although the brokers in Mr and Mrs As case  were referred to as being agents 
of the scheme provider, the nature and extent of that agency  relationship  is not clear. 
So I cannot say that the relationship between the parties  is the same as in Mr and Mrs 
Gs case, where AWD is explicitly stated  to have been the Appointed Representative 
and agent of LGPS.
30. I have also considered Wood  which Mr and Mrs Gs representative referred to in one 
of its submissions.  I can see that the judgment starts  by noting that a broker will often, 
but not always, be the borrowers agent. The judge considered that, in cases of fully 
secret commission, the borrower  would have a remedy  if the broker was either in a 
fiduciary relationship with the borrower; or acted as the borrowers agent.
31. However, Wood is not authority for the proposition that a broker  is always  the 
borrowers agent. It is still necessary to look at the nature of the relationship between 
the parties. 
32. I note that the judge in Wood went on to say (in relation to half-secret commissions)  
that The question, however, will always be the same  whether or not the principal 
can be said to have reposed trust and confidence in the agent thereby giving rise to 
such fiduciary relationship. Where  positive advice is given by the agent, it is clear  that 
the principal  will repose  trust and confidence  in the agent thereby giving rise to a 
fiduciary duty.      
33. I also note that Wood and Mr and Mrs As case are not consistent with a number of 
other cases where it has been  held that advisers do not owe fiduciary duties   showing 
Ref: DRN81216525that giving  advice does not automatically  lead to a relationship of trust and confidence 
(and I understand that Wood is being appealed). Indeed, the article referred to by 
Mr and Mrs Gs representative in relation to Wood  includes a footnote  to the effect 
that, although the judge held that it was not necessary to prove  a fiduciary  relationship 
in cases of fully secret  commissions  to engage the remedies  he had stated, this is 
contrary to the Court  of Appeal decision in Prince Arthur Ikpechukwu Eze v Conway 
and Another [2019] EWCA Civ 88 (Prince Eze). Paragraphs 39 and 43 of this 
judgment state: 
It is clear  from the authorities that in order for the law of bribery and secret  
commissions to be engaged there  must be a relationship of trust and confidence 
between the recipient of the benefit  [i.e. the commission] and his principal (used in 
the loosest of senses) which  puts the recipient  in a real position of potential  conflict 
between his interest and his duty.  Not all agents  will be in such a position and the 
relationship may arise  where there is no agency  at all. It is not helpful, therefore, to 
consider what might  be considered to be the paradigm of any particular  type of agent, 
whether an "introducing agent" or otherwise. It all depends on the nature of the 
individual's duties and which of those  duties is engaged in the precise circumstances 
under consideration. Although the relationship of principal and agent is a fiduciary  one, 
not every  person described as an "agent"  is the subject of fiduciary duties and a 
person described  as an agent may owe fiduciary duties in relation to some of his 
activities and not others.
The real question,  therefore, is whether the person receiving the benefit or the 
promise of a benefit was acting in a capacity which involved the repose of trust and 
confidence in relation  to the specific duties performed rather than on some general 
basis and whether the payment to him in that capacity was such  that a real position of 
potential conflict between  his interest  and his duty arose: see McWilliam  & Anr v 
Norton Finance  (UK) Ltd [2015] 1 All ER (Comm) 1026 per Tomlinson  LJ at 1041d  and 
Novoship per Christopher Clarke J at [106] and [107].
34. Following on from this, I am not convinced that any relationship  of trust and confidence 
which may have  existed in relation to Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage  (and I am not certain 
that it did) would automatically  have carried over to the insurance sale. I consider it 
difficult to see the relationship  in respect of the PPI as anything more than advisory  
that is, AWD advised that Mr and Mrs G should take PPI and recommended the one 
product which it had on offer; I dont think this recommendation  implied that the 
product was good value  or the best on offer-  it was not searching the market  in any 
way for this cover  and it had said that it could  only offer products from one provider. It 
was not paid a fee for this service and Mr and Mrs G were told that the PPI was not 
compulsory. Following Prince Eze above, the question is whether the fiduciary duties 
were owed in respect of the specific duties, and on balance  I do not think  the evidence  
supports a fiduciary relationship in respect of the PPI. 
35. Neither  do I consider  that AWD was acting as Mr and Mrs Gs agent in the PPI sale.  
Rather, I have  already noted that AWD was acting as the agent of LGPS as explicitly 
stated in the Appointed Representative Contract, and I have seen nothing  to lead me 
to believe that it was acting as agent for both parties (which, as I noted  above in 
relation to the mortgage,  would be unusual in any case). There is nothing  to suggest 
that it told Mr and Mrs G that it was acting on their behalf in relation to the PPI. 
36. I have also considered the case decided at this service where LGPS refunded  the 
payment made to AWD  by a solicitor in respect of a referral for legal services.  
Ref: DRN8121652637. However, that point  was not the subject of the complaint, and the ombudsman  made  
no finding about it  the payment  was simply noted in the decision as having  been 
made. I understand  that it was a relatively small amount, but I have  no information 
about the relationship  between AWD and the legal  firm involved, or what  information 
was (or was not) disclosed about  that relationship to the consumer concerned. Nor do I 
have information  about  the reason for that refund by LGPS.  So I do not consider I can 
draw any conclusions from that refund in relation to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
38. Finally, I have  considered the matter of payments due to LGPS and the scheme 
provider when AWD went  into administration. Other documents  relating to AWD in 
Companies House records  refer to liabilities arising from the mis-sale of PPI policies, 
so it seems reasonable to assume  that some, if not all, of the monies owing to LGPS 
were in relation to redress.  This is entirely  consistent with LGPSs role as AWDs  
Principal, where LGPS would be responsible for AWDs  actions and, as a 
consequence, complaints  about those actions.  However,  this has no bearing on 
whether AWD  had a fiduciary duty to its clients  a PPI policy  could be sold whether or 
not a fiduciary relationship existed. 
39. I have no information about  the purpose  of the monies owing to the scheme provider 
but, even  if it were  to be related to the claw-back of commission,  (I accept this may be 
the case - the timing is not unusual given  that single premium policies often had a five 
or six year term) this again has no bearing on whether or not a fiduciary duty existed.  
40. In summary, as I have concluded that the relationship between  AWD and Mr and 
Mrs G with regard  to the sale of the PPI did not amount to one of agency, and nor 
have I found evidence of a fiduciary duty,  I cannot fairly say that AWD had a duty to 
disclose any commission that it may have received from the scheme  provider. As a 
result, I cannot hold LGPS,  as AWDs  principal,  responsible  for any non-disclosure.
41. Overall, having considered Mr and Mrs Gs representations very carefully, Im not 
satisfied that they are sufficient  to change my conclusions  as set out in my provisional 
decision. So although  I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and 
Mrs G, I dont  uphold their complaint.
my final decision
42. For the reasons  Ive explained,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
43. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81216527COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
1. Mr and Mrs G complained  through a representative  that Legal  & General  Partnership 
Services Limited (LGPS) is responsible for a breach  of fiduciary duty in connection with the sale 
of a single-premium mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by its Appointed 
Representative, AWD Home Finance  Ltd (AWD).
background
2. Mr and Mrs G applied for a mortgage in September 2008 through AWD. Alongside the 
mortgage they took out a single premium PPI policy. The cost of the policy  (£6,286.90) was 
added to the borrowing, and as such was repayable  (with interest)  over the term of the 
mortgage, although the policy  only provided  cover for seven  years.  
3. From the information  I have, the PPI policy was a stand-alone policy rather  than one offered 
by the lender (I do not know the identity of the mortgage lender in this case, but this does not 
affect my conclusions). 
4. When Mr and Mrs G took out their mortgage and PPI, AWD  was an Appointed Representative 
of LGPS for the sale of regulated mortgages and insurance products  under the rules  of the then 
Financial Services  Authority  (FSA).
5. The PPI was arranged by AWD, through a separate business  - which for simplicity I will refer to 
from now on as the scheme provider  and underwritten  by a separate  insurer. This 
arrangement was explicitly set out in the Appointed  Representative  Contract between LGPS  
and AWD. 
6. For the sake of completeness,  I think it helpful to note that AWD is no longer trading  it was 
dissolved in February 2015.  The scheme provider  was part of the same business  group  as the 
underwriter in 2008, but was a separate legal entity. The underwriter  was not related to LGPS.
7. Mr and Mrs G, through their representative,  complained about secret commission on a single  
premium accident,  sickness  and unemployment policy. LGPS sent in copies of 
correspondence between  it and Mr and Mrs Gs representative, from which  I understand the 
complaint to be that the scheme provider  paid commission on the PPI to AWD, to be regarded  
as a "secret commission" such that there was a breach of fiduciary  duty by AWD. And LGPS,  
as AWDs  Principal, was responsible for AWDs actions,  and was aware of this non-disclosure 
of commission.
8. In the exchanges of correspondence,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative cited several  cases  in 
support of its argument:
 Panama and South Pacific Telegraph Co v India Rubber, Gutta Percha and Telegraph 
Works Co (1875) LR 10 Ch App 51;
 Mahesan S/O Thambiah v Malaysia  Government  Officers Co-operative Housing Society 
Ltd [1979] AC 374;
 Hurstanger Ltd v Wilson and another [2007]  1 WLR 2351
 McWilliam and another v Norton Finance (UK) Ltd (t/a Norton  Finance in liquidation)  
[2015] EWCA Civ 186  
 Doran and another  v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2018] All ER (D) 06 (Aug)
9. LGPS said, in response, that it did not pay commission to AWD in relation  to the PPI policy, 
and neither was it involved  in any commission payments or agreements  between  AWD and the 
scheme provider. LGPS  also said that AWD  was not acting as an independent  broker as it 
could only offer PPI from the scheme provider. And in addition,  there was no requirement in the 
FSAs rules (the Insurance Conduct  of Business sourcebook (ICOBS)) that commission be 
disclosed. 
Ref: DRN81216528my provisional  findings
10. Ive considered all the available evidence  and arguments  to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.   
11. Having done so, I am currently minded to conclude that Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should  not 
be upheld. I have set out my reasons below. 
12. I think it is helpful to start by setting out what is known about  the sale of Mr and Mrs Gs PPI 
policy, although I do not have  complete documentary evidence  from the point of sale.  
13. LGPS has provided copies of Mr and Mrs Gs customer authority document and demands and 
needs statement.  It also sent in a copy  of AWDs key facts about  our services document  (also  
known as an Initial  Disclosure Document (IDD)),  which, although  not personalised for Mr and 
Mrs G - FSA rules did not require this  was dated July 2008.  So I think  it reasonable to take 
this as setting  out the details of AWDs services as applicable to Mr and Mrs Gs sale. 
14. LGPS also sent in a sample  copies of a marketing leaflet, policy  summary and policy  document 
used by AWD. These seem to date from 2007.  And it provided a copy of its Appointed 
Representative Contract with AWD, which sets out the responsibilities  of the parties. This 
document also refers  to a side letter  between AWD and LGPS  regarding single premium ASU 
 we asked LGPS for a copy of this letter,  but it said that it was missing from its records.  
However, having carefully considered all of the submissions from all parties, I am satisfied that I 
have enough information  to reach my provisional  decision.
15. The IDD states that AWD could only offer accident, sickness and unemployment cover from 
one company  the scheme  provider. It further shows that AWD  would  advise and make a 
recommendation about such cover, having assessed the customers needs, and that no fee 
was payable by the customer for its insurance  services. The document  also sets out the terms 
of AWDs  mortgage  services   it offered mortgages from a limited number of lenders and again  
it would advise and make a recommendation. For mortgages it was stated that AWD  charged a 
fee to the customer  of up to 1.99% of the mortgage amount,  not exceeding £2,995.
16. The customer authority document shows appointment dates, Mr and Mrs Gs full names  and 
address, and their signatures  to two declarations, one being  that they had received,  and had 
had explained, the IDD. So I think  they most likely  saw the details  of AWDs services as Ive 
described above. 
17. The demands and needs document was dated 8 September 2008,  and refers  to a meeting  
between AWD and Mr and Mrs G on 21 August 2008. It sets out the insurances AWD 
recommended for Mr and Mrs G (including PPI) and notes those  they chose to take.  Mr and 
Mrs Gs signatures  appear on every  page of this document with the date 17 September  2008. 
In relation  to the PPI policy, the document shows the details of the policy  including the cost, 
monthly benefit, the benefit period and the term of cover. It does not state  the amount of any 
commission AWD may have received in relation to the policy. 
18. The marketing leaflet, policy  summary and policy  document set out the terms of the policy  but 
make no mention of any commission  payment.
19. In summary, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs G were  provided with information  about  the cost 
and terms of the PPI policy. But I have no evidence to suggest that they were told about any 
commission paid to AWD  in relation to the sale of the policy (although  there was no 
requirement in the FSAs ICOBS rules that commission  be disclosed). 
20. It follows that the key issue here is whether AWD owed a fiduciary  duty to Mr and Mrs G. If it 
did not, I cannot find that failure to disclose  any commission paid on the PPI was a breach of 
such a duty. 
21. The legal test for whether someone is a fiduciary  is summarised in Bristol and West  Building  
Society v Mothew [1998] Ch 1: 
"A fiduciary is someone who has undertaken to act for or on behalf of another  in a particular  
matter in circumstances which give rise to a relationship of trust and confidence.  The 
distinguishing obligation  of a fiduciary  is the obligation of loyalty.  The principal is entitled  to the 
Ref: DRN81216529single-minded loyalty of his fiduciary. This core liability has several facets. A fiduciary  must act 
in good faith; he must not make a profit out of his trust;  he must  not place himself in a position  
where his duty and his interest may conflict; he may not act for his own benefit or the benefit of 
a third person without the informed  consent  of his principal.  This is not intended to be an 
exhaustive list, but it is sufficient to indicate the nature of fiduciary obligations. They are the 
defining characteristics of the fiduciary. As Dr Finn pointed out in his classic work  Fiduciary 
Obligations (1977) p 2, he is not subject to fiduciary  obligations because  he is a fiduciary;  it is 
because he is subject to them that he is a fiduciary.
22. From the evidence before me, my conclusion is that AWD  did not owe a fiduciary duty to Mr 
and Mrs G. Rather, I consider AWD to have  been  an agent  of LGPS. 
23. The Appointed Representative  Contract between AWD and LGPS sets out the relationship  
between the two parties. It was signed  by both parties in October 2004,  with a commencement 
date of 31 October 2004, to coincide  with the start of the FSAs  regulation of most first-charge  
mortgages. 
24. Clause C in the background section of the document explicitly states  that the intermediary  
(AWD) would distribute financial services products as agent  for LGPS,  and that AWD  would be 
appointed as Appointed Representative for this purpose. 
25. It goes  on to say in Clause D that in the period between 31 October  2004  and 14 January  2005 
(the date on which the FSA began to regulate insurance intermediation) that AWD would 
distribute general  and pure protection insurance  as agent for LGPS.
26. I accept  that acting as an Appointed Representative  does not necessarily equate to acting as 
an agent in law for all purposes  (as set out in in Anna Ovcharenko  & Yury Moskaltsov  v 
Investuk Ltd & Anglo-Sino Capital Partners Ltd [2017]  EWHC 2114 (QB) at paragraphs 44 and 
45). However, given the explicit statements  of agency in this case, I am satisfied that AWD  was 
LGPSs agent in law as well as its Appointed Representative in relation to the sale of general 
insurance products  - and thus Mr and Mrs Gs PPI. 
27. I can also see from the sales documents that, whilst AWD  may have advised  Mr and Mrs G that 
the PPI policy  was suitable for them,  there is nothing in the wording of those documents  or the 
surrounding circumstances to suggest that AWD was acting  for Mr and Mrs G so as to create a 
fiduciary relationship.  For example, AWD was not searching the market on Mr and Mrs Gs 
behalf to find the best deal  it was simply offering PPI from a single provider, with the only 
options being a single premium  or monthly premium  policy, or no PPI at all. 
28. So, although AWD  owed a duty to Mr and Mrs G to give suitable advice, I do not consider there 
to have been a relationship of trust and confidence between  them,  over and above that 
advisory relationship.  
29. On the basis that I have not found evidence  of a fiduciary duty between  AWD and Mr and Mrs 
G, I cannot find that there was a breach of fiduciary duty for which I can hold LGPS 
responsible. Therefore I am not proposing to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.  
my provisional  decision
30. For the reasons  set out above, Im currently not proposing to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint 
against Legal & General Partnership  Services  Limited.
31. I now invite Mr and Mrs G and Legal & General Partnership  Services Limited  to provide any 
further information  or arguments  theyd like to be considered by12 March  2020 before  I issue 
my final decision.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8121652