K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs K says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1996.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00  per £100 Mrs K owed on her store card.  The policy  
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs K couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life 
cover as well as purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs K that the policy was optional and get her consent before  
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Ive been given a copy of the application  form 
completed by Mrs K at the time of the sale and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. In 
this section there is a box to tick if you want to take out the cover.  On Mrs Ks form the box 
has been ticked. If Mrs K didnt want to take out the cover she could have left the box blank. 
Mrs K has signed the overall application which suggests she agreed with everything that had 
been entered.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs K 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to 
Mrs K. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make  
sure it gave Mrs K clear  enough information about the policy  to enable  her to decide  for 
herself if she should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs K 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  she was 
already aware.
Ref: DRN80439782Mrs K has said that she didnt need the policy as she would receive 6 months full sick pay, 
followed by six months half pay from her employer if she was too ill to work.  But this policy 
would pay out 15% of her outstanding balance each month until she returned to work  or the 
balance was cleared  whichever came first. This would be in addition  to, and potentially for 
longer than, any sick pay she may have received. And it would also provide cover for the 
same length  of time if she was to lose her job. As Mrs K has told us she didnt have  any 
other means  with which to meet her repayments, I think this policy  could have provided a 
useful benefit  to her.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs K has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8043978