K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that CIS General Insurance Limited has declined  her home insurance claim 
for damage  caused  by an escape of water at her house. She also complains that because  
CIS General Insurance Limited knew her home was unoccupied it mis-sold her policy 
because it wasnt fit for purpose. 
background
Mrs B insured her home with CIS from 2015.  In 2016 she was admitted to hospital having 
had a bad fall. She returned home for a short  while but had another fall in 2017 and was 
readmitted to hospital  before moving  into residential  care. 
In March 2018, whilst her home was un-occupied, a pipe burst  causing  extensive damage. 
Her representatives contacted CIS to make a claim under her home insurance policy.  CIS 
declined the claim  because cover for damage  caused by an escape  of water was excluded 
when the insured premises  are unoccupied  for more than 60 consecutive days.
Mrs Bs representatives complained to CIS on her behalf. They  said that theyd told CIS at 
the last two renewals  that the house was unoccupied so they said it was fully aware of the 
situation. They said that when the renewal documents had been received in December 
2017, theyd called CIS to remind it that the property wasnt occupied and to make sure that 
whilst it was empty it remained fully insured. They said theyd not been  made  aware that the 
house wasnt insured if it was unoccupied  for more than 60 days  so the claim should be met. 
They said that if Mrs B wasnt fully covered then the policy had been mis-sold at renewal 
because it clearly wasnt fit for purpose. 
CIS looked into Mrs Bs complaint but didnt change its mind. It told the representatives that 
regardless of it being aware that the property  was empty, the policy exclusion still applied. So 
it said it was unable to accept Mrs Bs claim. And it said the un-occupancy clause had been  
specifically drawn  to Mrs Bs representatives  attention in December  2016.  It said itd received 
a letter  telling it that the property was unoccupied, so it updated its records  and sent the 
representative a letter in return explaining the exclusions that applied to unoccupied 
properties. So it said that Mrs B (and her representatives) was aware before the 2017  renewal 
that certain damage  was excluded when a property was unoccupied for 60 days or more. 
Unhappy with the outcome of CISs review, Mrs Bs representatives brought  a complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked  into her complaint but didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. Mrs Bs representatives disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for her 
complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I have every sympathy for the 
unfortunate situation Mrs B now finds herself in, her complaint isnt one Im able to uphold. Ill 
explain why. 
Its not in dispute  that Mrs Bs house had been  unoccupied  for a period of more  than 60 days 
prior to the pipe bursting.  The policy terms are clear. Claims for damage caused  by an 
escape of water are specifically excluded from cover if the property has been unoccupied for 
more than 60 days. 
Ref: DRN88064342CIS accepts  it was notified  by Mrs Bs representatives in both 2016 and 2017 that the house 
was unoccupied. Mrs Bs representatives accept they told CIS that was the case. But making  
CIS aware  that the house was unoccupied doesnt  negate the effect of the un-occupancy 
exclusion. It still exists  and it still applies regardless of whether the insured has declared  the 
fact to the insurer. So I cant reasonably say that Mrs Bs claim has been unfairly declined. 
Mrs Bs representatives say they clarified  with CIS during a phone  call that her property was 
fully covered despite it being unoccupied. CIS has no record of ever receiving  such a call. I 
can only base my decision on the available evidence before me and that includes the policy  
terms which, in my view, clearly state that claims for damage caused  by an escape  of water 
arent covered where a property  is unoccupied for 60 days or more.  So Im satisfied that Mrs B 
and her representatives ought  reasonably to have been aware that such cover  wasnt  in place.  
Ive thought about Mrs Bs representatives point  that if such  cover wasnt in place at renewal 
then CIS has mis-sold  her policy because it wasnt fit for her circumstances. But Im unable  
to agree. The policy provided cover for many other  insured  events that werent excluded by 
the un-occupancy clause. And CIS had specifically drawn that clause to Mrs Bs 
representatives attention in its letter of December 2016. So I cant  reasonably say that the 
policy was unsuitable  for Mrs Bs needs just because there  was no cover  for damage caused 
by an escape  of water.
Mrs Bs representatives have also said that CIS at one point had an incorrect  address  for 
her. But Ive seen  the policy schedule in force at the time of the claim and I can see that the 
correct address is cited, so Im satisfied that if there was any issue with the address that has 
now been resolved.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8806434