K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that on two occasions  Lloyds  Bank  PLC marked  their joint current 
account as dormant without informing them of its intention  to do so.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  a joint current account  with Lloyds, which  theyve had for over 25 years. 
For many  years they used  this account as their main account. But during recent years they 
used it less. In around 2017 their account  was classified as dormant by Lloyds.  
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds  didnt inform them it was intending to make their account dormant 
or notify  them it had done so. They only found  out their account  was dormant when they tried 
to access it in January  2019. They say, had they received notification  that their account 
would be made  dormant, theyd have contacted Lloyds to stop that process. 
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds  told them  theyd  both have to visit a branch with photo ID and 
proof of address  to reactivate their account. Their local branch is an 18 mile round trip and, 
when they went  there  on 11 January 2019 with their ID, they said they spent over an hour in 
the branch and two hours, overall,  including travel  time. Mr and Mrs M said they were 
caused significant inconvenience by what happened.
Mr and Mrs M say their account was reactivated  during this branch visit. But staff there 
werent able to explain why their account had become dormant. After their account had been 
reactivated Mr and Mrs M say they conducted  three transactions  on their account  during 
January and they were able to access it online. However, when they went to use their 
account on 5 March 2019 they discovered it had been made dormant  again.  They  said they 
werent give prior notice  of this by Lloyds or informed it had happened  again.
When Mr and Mrs M complained to Lloyds it told them  that a dormancy indicator had been  
applied back  on their account on 11 February 2019. Lloyds accepted that the second time 
their account  had become dormant was due to an error on its part because the branch 
hadnt followed the correct procedure when  reactivating their account.  This was due to staff 
not certifying Mr and Mrs Ms ID before forwarding those documents to Lloyds head office. It 
said this caused  the account to become dormant again. So, Mr and Mrs M were  asked  to 
visit their branch again so that their account  could be reactivated.
Lloyds acknowledged  that Mr and Mrs Ms experience had been  poor overall and that theyd 
been caused distress  and inconvenience. So, it initially offered to compensate  them £125. It 
said this amount was intended to recognise  that they were  unaware their account had 
become dormant in around 2017. This offer was later increased to £150 plus travel and 
telephone expenses of £26 to cover the trouble  and upset Mr and Mrs M were caused  by 
Lloyds making their account dormant a second  time.  
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with the content  of Lloyds  final response letter and they 
declined its compensation offer. They thought £400  would more  appropriately  reflect the 
circumstances of what happened.  But Lloyds  thought its offer was fair and reasonable.
When Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to our service our investigator didnt uphold it. 
They agreed with Lloyds outcome and thought the compensation  it had offered was fair and 
reasonable. Mr M and Mrs M disagreed  and asked an ombudsman to review  their complaint. 
Ref: DRN80124612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see Mr and Mrs M wanted to speak to me before I issue  my decision.  While I can 
understand why they may want this, its my role to consider all of the information and 
circumstances before making  a final decision. Here,  Im satisfied that I have  enough 
information to do this without needing to speak to Mr and Mrs M. The information  I have  is 
clear and I dont need any more to be able to reach a decision.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mr and Mrs M experienced here.  I can understand why 
they are frustrated by what happened. And I acknowledge how shocked  they must  have 
been to learn  that their account  had been made dormant in around 2017 without their 
knowledge. 
Lloyds said it will identify and mark any account as potentially  dormant  if it has had no 
customer initiated transactions for three years. From 2014  until 2018  I can see that the only 
transactions on Mr and Mrs Ms account were bank giro credits, which arent considered  by 
Lloyds to be customer initiated transactions. This explains why their account fell into 
dormancy.
Mr and Mrs M feel bank  giro credits should  be classed as customer  initiated transactions  by 
Lloyds. But thats  not Lloyds policy. And I dont have the power  to tell it to change  the way it 
treats bank giro credits. 
Lloyds told our service that, prior to it making an account dormant, it would notify  a customer 
of its intention to make  their account inactive. And it would  give them an opportunity to use 
their account  within an allocated period. But Mr and Mrs M say they werent  warned  their 
account would become  dormant. They also say they werent informed once their account 
had become dormant.  Lloyds  has searched  its records and hasnt been able to provide 
evidence to confirm  that it sent letters to Mr and Mrs M either before or after it made their 
account dormant  to explain the status of their account.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds have said here.  Its clear  to me 
that Mr and Mrs M still want their account to remain open. And I think  it likely, on balance, 
that if theyd received notification from Lloyds theyd have told it not to make  their account 
dormant as they did in January and March  last year. So, Im not persuaded Lloyds properly 
notified them  of its intention to make their account dormant or that the status of their account 
had changed in around 2017. And I think that was an error  on Lloyds part.
A further  error was made by Lloyds in February  2019 when it made  Mr and Mrs Ms account  
dormant a second time. Lloyds candidly accepted  this occurred due to branch staff not 
certifying Mr and Mrs Ms ID documents before sending  them  to its head  office.  It also didnt 
appropriately notify them either  before or after it made their account dormant. 
To compensate Mr and Mrs M for the errors  it made Lloyds offered them £150 compensation 
plus £26 in respect of call costs and expenses incurred  in visiting their branch. Its clear Mr 
and Mrs M arent happy with that amount. They say they were offered  £125 initially  and this 
was increased by only £25 after their account  was made dormant  a second time. They dont 
feel this fairly reflects  the fact that Lloyds made their account  dormant a second time. 
Ref: DRN80124613I recognise that their account becoming dormant  again is likely to have caused  additional  
inconvenience and frustration to Mr and Mrs M. But we arent here to punish businesses.  
And, to put things  right, Id have asked Lloyds to make an appropriate award of 
compensation to reflect  the trouble and upset caused. When  our service awards payments 
for trouble and upset we look at the overall  impact on the people  involved. We dont award 
money for each individual error. 
In this case its clear the service from Lloyds could have been  better. I recognise  that Mr and 
Mrs M spent  a fair amount of time in trying  to reactivate their account and understand how it 
became dormant twice.  And I acknowledge their inconvenience in having to attend their 
branch with ID. But, on balance, Im satisfied that the £150 compensation Lloyds has offered 
Mr and Mrs M fairly reflects  the overall trouble and upset they were caused. Its in line with 
awards made by this service in comparable circumstances and I wont be asking Lloyds to 
increase its offer.
Ive considered whether the £26 Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs M towards  their travel expenses 
and call costs fairly  reflects the fact that two visits were required to reactivate their account.  
Each visit to their branch was an 18 mile return trip. Im satisfied that the amount Lloyds has 
offered is a reasonable amount to cover  call costs  and any mileage and parking costs Mr 
and Mrs M may have incurred in visiting their branch.
Mr and Mrs M still dont  have access to the money in their account. They accept  theyll have 
to make another visit to their branch to reactivate their account. But they dont know  when 
theyll be able to do that. I appreciate this means theyre unable to access  their funds  until 
that time but I cant conclude that this is due to an error by Lloyds. I say this because Lloyds 
process is that an account can only be made  reactivated if ID is presented  to a branch. Our 
investigator asked Lloyds to use the ID Mr and Mrs M presented  during their visit in January 
2019 but it isnt willing  to do that. And I dont have the power  to tell it that it should. 
Finally, I understand  that Mr and Mrs M werent  happy with the content of Lloyds final 
response letter because  theyd like a clearer admission of liability. But I think  Lloyds gave Mr 
and Mrs M a fair explanation of its dormancy process and admitted its errors with candour. I 
realise that Lloyds  final response may not have gone into the level of detail Mr and Mrs M 
wanted, or expected. But impartially, I think it provided as much  detail  as was possible and I 
dont think itd be fair for me to ask Lloyds to do anymore here.
Overall, I think Lloyds  has dealt with this complaint fairly and done all it can to resolve this 
dispute. Im satisfied that the compensation its already  offered  to pay Mr and Mrs M is fair to 
compensate them for the worry and trouble they were caused here. So, Im not going to tell it 
to do any more. I realise Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings  to 
an end what we, in trying to resolve their dispute  with Lloyds informally,  can do for them.  Im 
sorry we cant help Mr and Mrs M any further with this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and that Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay 
Mr and Mrs M the £176 it offered to resolve this complaint if it hasnt  done  so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2020
Julie Robertson
Ref: DRN80124614ombudsman
Ref: DRN8012461