K821x#15complaint
Mrs A says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs A took out in 1996.  It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in person.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint because I dont think FICL gave Mrs A clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because the policy excluded claims relating to 
pre-existing medical conditions. I think this would have mattered to Mrs A because she had a 
long-term medical condition that was unstable and for which she was receiving regular 
check-ups.
I dont think Mrs A wouldve  bought  the policy if FICL  had given her enough information 
about it. So, I think Mrs A has lost out because of what FICL did wrong.  
Ive taken into account FICLs comments. But I still think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs A in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs A would have owed when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs A owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs A made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs A would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
Ref: DRN81613812The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If, when FICL works  out what Mrs A would have  owed each  month without PPI, Mrs A 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs A paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs A 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs A what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs A a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs As complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.  
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8161381