K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms G complain  that British Gas Insurance Limited hasnt handled  their claim under 
their home emergency policy properly.  
background
Mr C and Ms G have  a home  emergency  policy with British Gas. In December  2017,  the 
electrical system in their home  became unstable. Mr C called out an emergency electrician 
initially who couldnt  find what  was causing the problem.  In the end, this electrician put in 
place a temporary measure so that the electricity was working but advised Mr C to get a 
second opinion.
On 22 January 2018, two further  electricians  came to investigate. They identified the cause 
of the issue as being a problem with the boiler.  So Mr C contacted  British  Gas. 
British Gas identified  that there was a problem  with three sensors in the boiler. The sensors 
were replaced, the temporary fix was corrected by the electricians and Mr C has had no 
further problems  with his electricity  since. 
Mr C feels that, since  the boiler was supplied and maintained by British  Gas, its responsible 
for the fault with the sensors. Hed like British Gas to cover  the cost of two electricians he 
had to call out and pay compensation for the fact that he was without power for a total of 
about 10 and a half hours during the times  work  was being carried  out. 
Mr C contacted British  Gas to make  a claim for this under his policy. He first contacted  
British Gas about this in March 2018  but didnt hear anything back  for a number of weeks. 
He then complained to British Gas about this as well.  
British Gas said it didnt  think  it was responsible for the problems  Mr C had experienced with 
his electricity system. It said that Mr C chose to contact electricians to try and diagnose the 
problem and that when British Gas were notified, they came  out to Mr Cs property  and 
found the issue to be with faulty sensors in the boiler and they were replaced straight away.  
British Gas accepted that it hadnt  provided  a good service  to Mr C though.  It offered Mr C 
£150 in respect  of this. Which he accepted in respect of those issues.  But he remained  
unhappy with British Gas decision not reimburse  him for the cost of the two electricians 
visits and not to pay compensation for being without electricity and heating during  the time 
the work  was being done. So he referred  his complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator considered Mr Cs complaint. He said, in summary,  he didnt think British  
Gas were obliged  to cover the costs of the electricians visits under the terms of the policy.  
Mr C didnt agree  he says that British Gas is responsible for the problems with the electrics 
because it shouldnt have  used sensors  that would cause these types  of issues when they 
failed. As Mr C didnt agree, the complaints been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  British Gas 
need to cover the costs and pay compensation that Mr C says they do. Ill explain why.   
Ref: DRN83253392When Mr C first had his problem with the electrics in his home  he called an electrician. I 
dont think thats  unreasonable.  But I dont think thats what  his British  Gas policy  is designed 
to cover.  His policy covers  repairs to his boiler, among other things,  and British  Gas did 
attend his property promptly and repair the boiler when Mr C contacted them when the 
problem had been identified as being with the boiler. 
Mr C says he expects reimbursement for the cost of the electricians he had to call out. He 
says this because  he thinks the sensors  that British  Gas replaced in 2015 were the wrong 
ones and thats why its responsible for the issues with the electrics in 2018. 
British Gas says it would have replaced the sensors  with recommended products. Mr Cs 
provided an email from the electrician  who located  the problem as being  with the boiler in 
January 2018.  But this email doesnt say why the sensors caused the problem with the 
electrics, beyond simply concluding that it was the sensors causing the problem. So I dont 
think I can fairly say that this was because there was something inherently wrong with the 
sensors or that British Gas did something wrong when they replaced  them  the last time 
2015. 
Its not clear why the first electrician wasnt able identify the problem as being caused  by the 
sensors in the boiler. Prior to the problems,  the sensors were replaced  in August 2015, over 
three years previously  and Mr C says hed had no problems with electrics in that time. I 
dont know why the sensors failing would cause a problem with the entire electrical system in 
Mr Cs home  in December 2017. But, as Ive said, I dont  think theres anything to support 
Mr Cs assertion that its because British  Gas did something wrong when it installed them in 
2015. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8325339