K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wrongly told them they had to cancel 
their existing policy and take out new insurance cover for a proposed  new mortgage; also 
they say that the policy wasnt suitable. Barclays admitted  its recommendation had not been 
suitable but said they should have been  recommended to take out more  cover for a longer 
period of time, which  would have been more expensive. As such, they had not suffered a 
loss as a result of the unsuitable  advice.  However, it admitted it had not dealt with their 
complaint appropriately and offered £400 in lieu of this.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 16 September 2020. In it I outlined why I felt this complaint  should be upheld  
given the recommended  policy neither matched the term nor size of Mr and Mrs Ms 
proposed mortgage.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision
Barclays disagreed  and said:
The advice was provided by a Retail Mortgage  Protection advisor. As such,  s/he 
could not have offered advice about  the suitability of existing cover or endowment 
policies
However, it understands  that the existing policy was in Mrs Ms name  only and could 
not be amended  to include  Mr M
S/he was a tied advisor  and could therefore  only recommend the business own 
products
While  it did not offer a 17-year policy, due to the clients age, this did not make the 
recommendation unsuitable as long as the drawbacks were  spelt  out
Most  providers have/had an age limit on mortgage protection  policies so there  is no 
certainty that Mr M would  have  been able to secure a 17-year policy elsewhere
It believes that a level term policy was suitable as it protected  the total mortgage for 
the full term
The advisor would not have produced a suitability letter  as s/he only offered 
protection policies  as part of a mortgage  application
It maintains that the advisor should  have recommended a £40,000 level term cover 
policy, something which  would have been  more  expensive
There was an unexplained  delay in starting  the policy which  resulted,  in practice, in 
there only being a four-month shortfall  in the mortgage term cover
The policy is still live, till May 2021, meaning that Mr and Mrs M would receive  
£35,000 if they made a successful claim
While  it is unfortunate  that no paperwork could be found it is very unlikely that Mr and 
Mrs M did not receive any at the time. Mr M wrote to it in 2004 asking for the policy  to 
be placed in his name only;  this indicates  he had received paperwork earlier
According to the mortgage application,  Mr and Mrs M chose Option 2: to receive 
Information on the different types  of mortgage protection  on offer,  as opposed to 
Option 1: Advice and Recommendation. This indicates they didnt receive mortgage 
advice but chose the Open Plan mortgage themselves
Mr M would have  had to re-sign all the paperwork when the policy  went ahead in his 
name only, which explained the nature of the mortgage, its terms etc.
Ref: DRN85445292They borrowed a maximum of £4,000 via the debit card linked to this Open Plan 
current account mortgage
An additional £9,000 was taken  fraudulently;  this issue was dealt with in 2011/12 and 
has no relevance to this complaint
They made a further complaint about  the auto-balancing facility subsequently
It paid Mr and Mrs M £100 in 2017  in lieu of any inconvenience resulting from the 
incorrect cover being  recommended; it has also offered a further £300 which has yet 
to be accepted
When Mrs M discussed her complaint with one of its advisors she said that the 
previous/existing cover  policy  was in her name only, and this was why they wanted a 
new joint policy instead
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M were  planning to take out a 17-year  mortgage and I dont accept that because 
the tied advisor could  only offer a 16-year  protection policy  this made  the recommendation 
suitable. Nor do I think there is convincing evidence to support Barclays argument that Mr 
and Mrs M were made  fully aware  that other  providers may well have offered a 17-year 
policy but happily chose  to take out one which did not meet  their proposed  mortgage 
commitment. Indeed  there is no documentation  to suggest the tied advisor  made this clear.
I also do not accept  Barclays argument  that Mr M may not have  been  able to obtain a policy  
which took him past his 65th birthday. In fact I have  just dealt  with a complaint concerning a 
mortgage protection policy  which  ran until the clients 85th birthday, taken out at a similar 
time. As I understand  mortgage-linked  term assurance policies  running  past 65 were 
definitely available.  Today, a common age limit is 80. So I have seen no persuasive 
evidence that Mr M could not have obtained a suitable  policy.
For the reasons  previously outlined, I do not accept  that Mr and Mrs M needed a level term 
policy given they had a repayment  mortgage and I have still not seen any persuasive 
evidence that they chose  an off-set mortgage which, arguably, might have made a level term 
policy more suitable.  I dont agree that the very limited documentation available  
demonstrates that they chose this mortgage.  Instead, I found Mrs Ms evidence - that they 
discovered they could  borrow  back money  when they subsequently visited  a branch  more 
persuasive.
 
However, I dont believe  that simply asking  Barclays  to refund the premium difference 
between the unsuitable policy Mr and Mrs M have been paying for and a decreasing term 
policy is appropriate in this case. Firstly, because Barclays could not have offered a suitable  
17-year policy so should never  had sold Mr and Mrs M a policy. And, secondly, because as 
the cost of life assurance has always varied significantly between providers I cannot safely  
say what such a suitable policy might have cost.  
Also, another provider  who was able to take into account existing cover might or might not 
have made  a completely different recommendation. In this context, I am very surprised that 
Barclays appears to argue that a tied advisor  is entitled  and required - to ignore any 
existing provision. This seems to me likely to lead to frequently unsuitable advice.
Ref: DRN85445293So, overall, I am satisfied  that Barclays should refund the premiums Mr and Mrs M have paid 
on a policy  which neither matched the size or term of their repayment mortgage,  particularly 
given the tied advisor  was not in a position to recommend  such a policy from her limited  
portfolio.
Finally, I asked Barclays for a copy of the phone recording  where Mrs M allegedly said they 
were happy  to discontinue their existing policy, which was in her name only,  on 15 October 
2020. Nearly six weeks  later, and despite several  reminders, it has not done  so. As I am 
satisfied that this complaint should  be upheld irrespective of the limitations of Mr and Mrs 
Ms existing cover, I do not feel it is necessary to wait any longer to issue this decision.
I instruct Barclays to refund all the premiums  Mr M has paid on this policy on the basis that 
he now surrenders  it without value. It does not need to pay interest  on these premiums, for 
the reasons previously outlined.
It should also pay the £300  it earlier offered if it has not already done so.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as outlined  
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 December  2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN85445294Provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly told them they had to cancel  their 
existing policy and take out new insurance cover for a proposed new mortgage;  also they say that the 
policy wasnt suitable. Barclays admitted its recommendation had not been suitable but said they 
should have been recommended to take out more  cover for a longer period of time, which would  have 
been more expensive. As such, they had not suffered a loss as a result of the unsuitable advice. 
However, it admitted  it had not dealt  with their complaint appropriately and offered £400 in lieu of this. 
background
In 2004 Mr and Mrs M were  advised to take out a 16-year  £35,000 level term assurance policy  to 
provide protection  for a proposed 17-year  repayment mortgage  of £35,000 with an additional 
arrangement fee of £295  plus a £5,000 (interest-only)  overdraft  facility. They were also advised  to 
take out premium waiver  protection  at a cost of roughly £2.50 a month (something  they agreed to). 
This was an Open Plan Offset mortgage i.e. while the monthly payments were designed to pay off the 
mortgage by the end of the loan period they could  borrow  back money at any point up to the original 
loan amount. They  subsequently took out the mortgage  in Mr Ms sole name and also this insurance  
policy. 
In its Final Response Letter Barclays said Mr and Mrs M should have been advised to take out a 
policy for their full potential liability of £40,295 and for the full 17-year mortgage commitment,  and on a 
level term basis. But it did not offer a policy  which would provide cover past Mr Ms retirement  age of 
65, hence  the recommendation for a 16-year policy. It said its advisor  should have recommended 
speaking to an independent advisor about obtaining such a policy.  But this higher level of cover with 
an additional years cover would  have  been  more expensive than the actual policy theyd bought.
In their complaint to this service, Mr and Mrs M said:
They  were told they had to cancel their existing cover and take out this policy  as their existing 
policy  costing  just £9 a month - would become invalid once  the new mortgage started
The policy  did not match the size of their mortgage  commitment  or its term
They  were led to believe this was an endowment/investment  type policy which  would deliver  
an end profit/bonus
Surely it was for them  to decide whether  they wanted level or decreasing term cover,  but the 
advisor never gave him that choice  merely recommending the far more expensive level term 
policy
This policy became manifestly unsuitable seven years  ago when  Barclays froze  the (MCAR) 
loan facility, so they had never owed more than £20,000 since  then
Barclays should have told him at that point that the cover was now excessive and it should 
refund the excess  premiums since that date
Barclays claimed that the appropriate policy  with more cover for a year longer  would have 
been more  expensive but this is untrue.  This policy was far more expensive than that of other 
providers, notably  L & G who would  have  offered this cover for £19.99 a month (they  provided 
evidence in support of this)
The sickness  cover  expired five years  before Mr Ms projected retirement date and so was not 
fit for purpose
Barclays ignored and then failed  to deal with their complaint, resulting in considerable time 
and effort seeking  to get a response from it
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN85445295Firstly, I felt there were a number of outstanding questions about  the circumstances of this 
recommendation, what Mr and Mrs M were looking  for and their recollections about certain issues. I 
therefore spoke to Mrs M who offered the following additional evidence  (on her and her husbands 
behalf):
The advisor  said they couldnt keep the existing  policy and had to surrender it which  they did; 
he never explained why
They  queried why the new policy was so much more expensive than their existing  £9 a month 
once (which  Mrs M thinks provided £26,000 of cover)  and the advisor said because this 
would give them a lump  sum pay-out  at the end of the term;  this is why they agreed to it
They  did not receive any advice letters or paperwork explaining the policy or why hed 
recommended it
They  thought it was a repayment mortgage like their original one, and had no idea about  the 
additional borrowing option until some time after the mortgage and insurance policy were  
taken out
When they went into a branch a member of staff said they were entitled to a debit card and 
could take money out on this card thanks to their new mortgage
The maximum  they took out on this card was £4,000 but £9,000  was taken  out fraudulently,  
something they have complained about
 They  thought the interest on this card was the same  as their mortgage rate but subsequently 
discovered it was far higher
They  were never provided with key paperwork and only got this after making a complaint in 
2016
I asked Barclays to provide copies of the original Fact Find and Suitability  Letters but it was unable to 
source any documentation relating to the advice or recommendations.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs M have not had £40,295  of cover for 17 years,  as Barclays said would  have been 
appropriate. So it cannot then say they have not suffered as a result of its poor advice.  If it is correct  
to say they ought to have been  recommended  higher cover and for a longer period, then Mr and Mrs 
M were  denied additional  cover of £5,295 and for an additional 12 months due to Barclays  poor 
advice. So, according to Barclays  logic, Mr and Mrs M should be entitled to an additional pay-out  of 
£5,295 if they make a claim at any point up to a year after their existing policy runs out. If I agreed 
with its analysis  I would be instructing it to guarantee such additional cover and for an extra year.  
However, I dont agree  with its conclusions.
Secondly, Ive seen  no evidential basis for it to assert that this modest increase in cover for a briefly 
extended period would necessarily have cost more.  The cost of cover has always varied  significantly 
between providers and there is no reason to assume that Mr and Mrs M would  have had to pay more 
for such cover if they had sought quotes from a variety of providers (given  Barclays could  not provide 
the appropriate cover for the mortgage term).
More broadly, it is very surprising that Barclays has been  unable to provide any documentation 
pertaining to the sale such  as recommendation  or suitability letters.  Given this policy  is still in 
existence there is no reason  for such paperwork to have been  discarded.
On balance, I therefore am persuaded  by Mr and Mrs Ms evidence saying that they never  received 
any paperwork and were not fully aware  of the nature  of this policy and its key terms.
Crucially, Ive seen no persuasive evidence  that Mr and Mrs M wanted or needed the flexi mortgage 
which arguably would have made  a level term policy  recommendation appropriate. The fact that they 
subsequently drew on this facility does not mean they actively wanted such a policy at the outset or 
were fully aware of this feature.
Ref: DRN85445296I therefore  am not satisfied that a level term policy  was necessary. Nor have I seen sufficient evidence 
to conclude that Mr and Mrs M wanted or needed cover  for the additional borrowing facility.  The fact 
that the policy  did not cover  the term of the mortgage further rendered this advice  unsuitable.
Given all the above, I am satisfied that Barclays did not have a suitable policy  to recommend and 
should have advised Mr and Mrs M to look elsewhere for cover. I cannot reasonably  decide  whether  
they would have kept their existing policy and supplemented it. Nor can I know how much they might 
have had to pay for such additional cover.
I think  it is more  likely  than not that Mr and Mrs M would  have taken out some additional cover,  at 
least, but in the absence of any greater certainty than this, I dont think  it is appropriate to take into 
account any notional  alternative  policys  premiums when assessing compensation.
I therefore  currently intend  to instruct Barclays to refund all the premiums Mr M has paid on this policy 
on the basis that he now surrenders it without value (assuming it has not already  expired). I dont 
however plan to ask it to add the normal  8% simple  interest to these sums as I think this would be 
overly generous given Mr M has enjoyed cover for the past 16 years.
I also believe Barclays should pay the £400 originally offered if it has not already  done so.
 
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Barclays  to pay compensation as outlined  
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8544529