K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the interest rate on his credit card account with Vanquis Bank  
Limited. He says the rate is much higher than he agreed to or expected, and Vanquis never 
confirmed it in writing.
background
Mr W opened a credit card account  with Vanquis in 2015. During  a phone call in 2018, Mr W 
says a member of the banks staff mentioned an annual percentage rate (APR) of 59.94% on 
the card. He complained. He said this was the first hed heard of such a high rate, and he 
would never  have agreed to take the card if hed known about it.
Vanquis said this was the rate Mr W had agreed to in 2015, when he opened  the account. It 
also said it had told him about the rate in a phone call it had with him at the time, as well as 
in the terms and conditions it sent with the card.  It thought  it had charged  Mr W correctly.
Mr W got in touch with us. Our investigator  didnt think Vanquis had done anything  wrong.  
She found that Mr W had agreed to the rate and it hadnt increased since 2015.
Mr W asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He provided a copy of the welcome letter hed 
received when he opened the account,  and said he didnt think Vanquis had been clear with 
him about the interest rate hed have  to pay. He also said his balance  had increased  
significantly since he first complained, and this matter is affecting his health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments  including  Mr Ws letter  to us 
dated 16 August  2019  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Its clear that Mr W feels strongly about this matter. But, while I realise  hell be very 
disappointed, I have  reached the same overall conclusion  as the investigator did, for much 
the same  reasons.
Ive listened to the recording Vanquis has provided of its phone  call with Mr W when the 
account was opened. It told him the rates applicable  to his new card. Mr W has had the 
opportunity to listen to the recording as well, and I agree with what hes said about the staff 
member talking quickly. I nevertheless think the rates were made clear.  There  was also a 
recorded message  at the end of the call explaining that more  details of the interest rate and 
important account  information would be sent to Mr W in his welcome pack.
Mr W has provided a copy of the welcome  letter he received. At the top, it set out the 
monthly interest rates for purchases and cash/cheques. That is different from the annual 
rate. The account  terms and conditions set out the annual rate, how the APR is worked out, 
and how and when  interest will be charged.
I have also looked  at copies of Mr Ws monthly statements. They show  the amount of 
interest that has been charged each month and the estimated interest  to be charged  the 
following month. They also set out the monthly  interest rates on the card balances.  The rates 
havent increased since the account was opened.
Ref: DRN84661472The letter Mr W received inviting him to apply for a card said the representative APR was 
39.9% variable. But it also said that was subject  to status. It wasnt  a guarantee that Mr W 
would get a card at that rate.
I dont consider that Vanquis misled Mr W or that it was unclear about the interest rate hes 
been paying. It was for Vanquis  to decide at what rate it was prepared to lend to Mr W, and 
for Mr W to decide whether to accept that offer. 
For these reasons, I cant fairly require Vanquis to refund any interest  or reduce the rate it 
has been charging Mr W. 
Im sorry  to learn that Mr W has been  struggling with the monthly payments on the card and 
that his health has been affected. I understand he has been  in touch with Vanquis about  this 
 if hes unhappy  with the way hes been treated he may ask us to look into that as a 
separate matter.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8466147