K821x#15complaint
Miss S and Miss M have complained about  poor customer  service  and administrative errors 
by Target Servicing Limited  in dealing with the redemption of their equity loan. The complaint 
has been handled throughout by Miss S.
background
Miss S and Miss M had bought a property with the assistance of a HCA  Equity  Loan,  as well 
as a mortgage. The terms of this loan state that, if the property is sold or the mortgage 
repaid, the equity loan has to be repaid at an agreed percentage of the sale price or 
valuation of the property (whichever is higher).
Miss S and Miss M were  moving to a new property  and redeeming their mortgage  and equity 
loan. They contacted Target for a redemption quote on 8 March 2018.  It wasnt until 
25 March 2018  that Target  sent out the documentation, after Miss S had called  to complain 
that thered been no response to the request made on 8 March 2018. Included  with this was 
a solicitors form. This was completed  and returned  to Target. Miss S and Miss M say they 
completed and returned  this immediately. Target  says it received the form on 9 April 2018, 
but Target said it was not the correct  form. Target emailed the correct form to Miss S and 
Miss M, which was completed and returned the same day. 
Unfortunately, Target attached an incorrect valuation to the account,  and this resulted in an 
inaccurate redemption  quote being issued. Target didnt know  this had happened  until it was 
contacted by Miss S, when Targets error was identified.
A correct redemption quote was issued and Miss S and Miss M were able to go ahead with 
the sale of their property  and purchase of their new one.
But they remained unhappy about  the matters detailed above, and about other 
administrative issues, including deduction of a direct debit taken after the account had been 
repaid and the amount  of the redemption fee. Miss S and Miss M believed this was £200 but 
were quoted £250. Target was unable to locate any record of ever saying the fee was £200.
Target acknowledged its service had fallen  short of the standard Miss S and Miss M should 
have been given. In its final response letter, Target  acknowledged that regrettably it had 
failed to notice  that it had sent the incorrect  solicitors form. It offered £100 compensation for 
the errors  in relation to the delay in sending  out documents and the way it had dealt with the 
complaint about  this. 
Unhappy with Targets response, Miss S and Miss M complained to us. An investigator 
looked at the complaint. By this time, Targets position had changed. It denied sending out 
the incorrect solicitors forms (even  though it had acknowledged it had done so in the final 
response letter). Instead, Target was now saying that Miss S and Miss M had themselves  
sourced an incorrect form on the internet, downloaded this and submitted it. Target didnt 
accept any responsibility  for the incorrect form that it received on 9 April 2018. Target said 
that it had sent out the correct form by email once it had established  that the form submitted 
by Miss S and Miss M must have been downloaded by them.
The investigator thought the complaint should  be upheld and that Target should pay a further 
£100 compensation, making a total of £200.  Miss S and Miss M accepted this was a fair 
Ref: DRN84484432outcome; Target  did not. It continues to maintain that Miss S and Miss M are to blame for 
submitting the incorrect form which Target  claims they downloaded  from the internet.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
Its clear from the available evidence that Targets customer  service here was poor. Its 
especially disappointing  that, having  acknowledged  its mistake in sending  out the wrong 
solicitors form in the final response letter,  Target  then attempted  to deflect the blame  onto 
Miss S and Miss M. 
I have specifically asked  Miss S and Miss M if they ever downloaded  any documentation, 
and they have confirmed they did not. In the circumstances, I find their evidence  more 
plausible than Targets in this regard. This means  that I am upholding the complaint.
Im satisfied that the mistakes made by Target  caused distress and inconvenience to Miss S 
and Miss M. Consequently,  it is fair and reasonable that Target pays compensation for this. I 
think the compensation recommended by the investigator of £200 in total is appropriate and 
proportionate to the circumstances of this case.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I order Target 
Servicing Limited to pay a further  £100 compensation for trouble and upset (in addition to the 
£100 already offered)  for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8448443