K820x#14Complaint
Miss B complains  about the settlement of a claim by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) after a building  was damaged  by an explosion.  
Background
Miss B had landlords  property insurance  with RSA where she had declared a rebuild value  
for her property of £100,000. An explosion damaged her property and RSAs appointed loss 
adjusters started  to investigate the claim. During the investigation they considered the house 
had a rebuild value of £140,000. RSA told Miss B that she was under-insured but settled the 
claim for the total sum insured as opposed to reducing the settlement proportionately  to the 
under-insured factor. Miss B disputes the rebuild value is more  than she declared.
Other issues  arose that Miss B was unhappy  with, which included payment for hoarding 
around her damaged  building. RSA said the hoarding was necessary for public safety and to 
prevent further  liability. Miss B thought the costs were excessive and said she hadnt agreed  
to the hoarding. RSA explained that it didnt feel it had done anything  wrong  and that it had 
paid what it should  have in relation to the claim.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and thought RSA had handled the claim 
fairly. She explained  that the website through which Miss B had bought her policy  had given 
information about calculating the rebuild value with information about the industry BCIS 
calculator. Miss B had given what she thought was the market value as opposed to rebuild 
and so her property was under-insured. The investigator explained  that the policy  was clear 
about what RSA might do with under-insurance,  including reducing the settlement 
proportionate to the under-insurance. In Miss Bs case she was under-insured by nearly  26% 
and so RSA, under  the policy terms, could have  reduced the settlement to around £74,000. 
RSAs settlement was based on the sum insured for building  repairs,  loss of rent and a 
contribution to the hoarding (and deduction of the remainder for hoarding). The investigator 
pointed out that RSA had in fact paid the full sum insured of £100,000  as well as a partial 
contribution to the hoarding costs  and loss of rental income. And the investigator was 
satisfied RSAs surveyor had fairly  reflected the rebuild  value  at around £135,000 - £142,000 
based on their expertise  and the BCIS  rebuild calculator. She was satisfied RSA had acted 
reasonably in agreeing for hoarding to be erected  to secure the site for public safety  and 
further liability issues. 
Miss B disagreed with the investigators opinion and the complaint has been referred to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  at the heart  of this complaint concerns  the rebuild value of Miss Bs property. 
Miss B has accepted  that she provided  the market  value  of the property as opposed to the 
rebuild value. 
The policy was taken  out online and the question asked was about  the rebuild value. Good 
industry practice has been, and still is to highlight the importance of accurately giving the 
rebuild cost of the property to be insured. And this is usually done by pointing to the BCIS  
Ref: DRN87059822calculator, which  is largely free to use. This calculator allows an individual to input details of 
their property and a rebuild estimate will be given.  The calculator doesnt give an estimate 
for every property (usually  based  on bedroom numbers and square footage)  but Im satisfied 
the calculator  would have given an estimate  for Miss Bs property type.
Having reviewed everything carefully  I am satisfied that RSA reached a fair rebuild value at 
around £140,000. And so that means I am satisfied Miss B didnt fairly present the risk (in 
terms of value) to RSA even though  its information  was clear about  what information she 
needed to provide when  applying for the policy.
The insurance policy says that where the sum insured is too low RSA will only pay a 
comparable proportion of the amount it otherwise would. Strictly speaking RSA could settle  
on the basis of a percentage and that would have left Miss B receiving substantially  less 
than RSA offered.  But RSA decided to pay up to the sum insured value of £100,000. I have 
checked to see whether  it would have made any difference  to the insurance price had 
Miss B declared the accurate rebuild value. Using an online application there  is an uplift of 
around 25% in price  for a higher rebuild  value so Im satisfied that it would have made  a 
difference. If it hadnt made any difference to the cost then it might not be fair for RSA to 
refuse paying up to the rebuild value as it was not caused any prejudice. That isnt the case  
here though  with Miss Bs circumstances.
Under the policy RSA has the right to take over the defence and / or settlement of any claim. 
This is common  to all buildings  insurance policies (and other insurances) Ive seen and its 
fair because  it enables an insurer, who ultimately  has financial liability, to keep costs at an 
appropriate level. Part of the discretion RSA has is the decision  to repair  or rebuild  the 
property. The rebuild  cost was more than the sum insured and RSA chose  to pay the full 
sum insured as opposed to rebuild  the property (at a higher cost). Im satisfied RSA applied  
this fairly  as it would  be unfair, in this case,  to expect it to pay more than the sum insured.
Part of Miss Bs unhappiness stems from the cost of the hoarding around her property.  
Under the policy conditions reasonable steps must  be taken to prevent or minimise a 
number of things  including  injury to the public. Miss Bs property was substantially  damaged  
by the explosion and this impacted a neighbouring  property  too. RSA agreed to share the 
hoarding costs with the neighbours insurer and Miss B is unhappy at her share of the cost. 
The first thing to note is that the damaged state  of the property, as seen in the photographs 
provided, was such that I think  it was reasonable for RSA to ensure the site was protected 
so that access was controlled to those who needed access  to the site. There  were  a number 
of Health & Safety concerns posed  as a consequence of the explosion and RSA was 
motivated by this to ensure appropriate protection. Ive seen the invoiced  amount that RSA 
paid and Im satisfied RSA paid what  it was supposed to. Whether  it paid more  than a 
different contractor would  have charged isnt the real issue.  RSAs obligation wasnt  to pay 
the lowest amount  but to take reasonable steps to secure the site and prevent / minimise a 
number of liabilities including injury  to the public.  I am satisfied RSA took reasonable steps 
when handling  and settling Miss Bs claim.
Miss B raises  an issue of how RSA communicated with her about the hoarding  and that she 
should have been able to appoint her own contractor. But I disagree.  Ive explained the 
rights RSA had under  the policy and the securing of the site wasnt,  in my view, a matter for 
negotiation given the serious damage. And I note that RSA did in fact contribute  almost  £900 
to the cost, which I think was a reasonable thing to do.
Ref: DRN87059823Miss B has pointed to a number of issues related to the hoarding  and Ive considered these 
carefully. But Im not persuaded to reach  a different  outcome  to the investigator. The 
explosion was a serious incident leaving the site it was built on vulnerable  and at risk of 
further damage, loss and with the potential to cause  injury.  And a neighbouring  property was 
damaged also. To leave  the site open for any length of time would leave both Miss B and 
the insurer at risk of further liability. As RSA had a right under the policy to deal with the 
claim and settle it, and I think it did so fairly, I wont be asking it to do any more.
There is a part of the policy that refers  to an inflationary provision of 15%, which,  on the face 
of it, has the potential to lift the sum insured to £115,000. Miss B thinks  this should mean she 
gets more from RSA. A section of the policy says that if the declared value increases 
because of index-linking RSA wont make  any extra charge until renewal. Index-linking 
essentially means that the value can increase with inflation. But the issue here is that the 
declared value  of Miss Bs house didnt  increase because of index-linking.  The difference  
between what she declared  and the appropriate declared value was due to her giving the 
lower market value as opposed to the rebuild  cost. As such, Im not satisfied  that it would be 
fair to require RSA to pay more than the amount  Miss B wanted to insure her property for - 
£100,000.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that RSA has offered a fair settlement  for Miss Bs claim by paying 
the full sum insured, rather than a proportionate  amount,  loss of rent and a contribution to 
the hoarding costs.  And Im also satisfied that it was reasonable for RSA to take over the 
claim handling, which it did fairly, and deal with other parties to secure the area around 
Miss Bs property. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8705982