K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc hasnt  refunded  to his current account card payments 
which he says werent processed  successfully.
background
Mr M says that he tried to use his TSB debit  card to make payments to two bookmakers   
nine to the first (which  Ill refer to as L) and four to the other (which Ill call H). Each payment 
was for £100. Mr M says the bookmakers  werent  able to process  the payments, and so he 
had to use a card from a different provider. 
Even though  the payments werent successful,  Mr M says,  they still appeared on his account 
statements, and so he asked TSB to raise disputes with L and with H. 
TSB raised  a dispute with L, but said it didnt receive information from Mr M to enable  it to 
take things any further with H.
L investigated  the payments that Mr M was disputing, but said that its records  showed  that 
they had been processed  correctly and that it wouldnt therefore be refunding them.  So TSB 
wouldnt refund  Mr M either.  
TSB acknowledged that it hadnt handled  Mr Ms complaint as well as it might have done 
and paid him some compensation  in respect  of that, but he remained unhappy that the 
payments hadnt  been returned, and so complained to this service.  
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ms complaint  but agreed with TSB that no refund was 
due. Mr M didnt  accept that and asked that an ombudsman look at the case  as the final 
stage in our consideration of it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having do so, however, Ive reached the 
same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Ill begin by clarifying my understanding  of Mr Ms complaint. Whilst hes seeking refunds of 
payments made using  his debit card, hes not saying that he didnt use the card. This isnt a 
case where hes saying  that payments werent authorised; rather,  hes saying that the 
payments werent  processed correctly, and so he didnt receive the service  he paid for  in 
this case, placing  bets using a fixed odds betting terminal. 
TSB placed in dispute the nine payments  made to L, through the chargeback process. 
Thats a way of resolving some card payment  issues,  including  the allegation here that the 
payments were debited  to Mr Ms account without being processed properly because  of a 
technical issue. Ls information indicated however that it had properly  taken the payments 
and Mr M had been able to use its services. L didnt have any records  suggesting that 
payment had been made by some  other  means. 
In my view, Ls evidence  is sufficient  to demonstrate that the payments were in fact correctly 
processed. The nature of the transactions means  of course that its difficult to identify exactly  
what service was received, but I accept Ls explanation  that the payments were loaded  to 
fixed odds betting  terminals. I would mention too that the fact there  were  nine payments for 
Ref: DRN86566482the same  amount would  give the appearance of duplication (which can be a reason for a 
successful chargeback), but that is consistent with the nature of the payments and Mr Ms 
other payments to L at other times. 
Mr M thought he had provided  enough  information to TSB to allow  it to claim  against  H as 
well. TSB didnt think he had, but I think it could  have done more  to explain what it needed.  
Be that as it may, it seems to me more likely than not that any chargeback claim against H 
would have led to the same  result as that against  L. We generally take the view that card 
issuers arent obliged to seek  a chargeback  in every case, but should  do so if theres  a 
reasonable prospect of success. But, given what happened with the claim  against  L, I dont 
think there was such a prospect here. Im satisfied, on balance,  that all the payments  Mr M 
has disputed were  made by him and processed  correctly.
my final decision 
My final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank  plc to do any more to resolve Mr Ms 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8656648