K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains about the service she received from British Gas Insurance  Limited  under  
her home care policy.
background
Ms Cs boiler  was making a noise. So British Gas sent out an engineer to investigate. Ms C 
said the engineer  advised  that the boiler  needed to be replaced because  the part needed to 
fix it was obsolete. Ms C subsequently replaced her boiler. But she said she was informed by 
a second British Gas engineer at a follow up appointment  that the old boiler  did not need to 
be replaced. Ms C stated she would not have spent the money she did having the boiler 
replaced if she knew that the boiler  could be repaired (although repairing  a noisy boiler 
would not have been covered by the policy). 
British Gas denied  any wrongdoing.  It said it made  better economic sense to replace the 
boiler. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint was upheld.  She accepted that the 
engineer may have  advised on replacement of the boiler. But she said there wasnt  any 
evidence to show that he didnt also discuss repairing the boiler. 
Ms C asked that her case be passed to an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence may be inconclusive, 
Ill reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities - that is, what  I consider is most  likely to 
have happened, in view of the evidence that is available  and the wider  circumstances.
I too wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I have regard for Ms Cs recollections. And I accept that the repair option would have cost 
less. But Im simply unable to substantiate Ms Cs version of events, that she wasnt even 
offered a repair. 
The notes from the engineers visit read  advised of age/efficiency.  On balance,  Im 
persuaded that some discussion around  repair took place. And in my view it wasnt  
inappropriate for the engineer to talk to Ms C about  buying a new boiler,  given the age of her 
existing model.  
As for the follow  up visit by the second  British Gas engineer; I cannot fairly comment  on this, 
because there is little information available  about  what took place. However,  I would 
recognise that engineers are likely to have their own personal opinions,  based on their 
experience and knowledge.  And this is likely to determine what they may recommend. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint about British Gas Insurance  
Limited. 
Ref: DRN88048222Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Paul Phillips 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8804822