K821x#15Complaint
Mrs J complains about the advice given to her by Brian Portanier (trading as Minster  Ethical  
Moneybox) to transfer the cash value of preserved benefits she held in a defined benefit 
occupational pension scheme  to an income drawdown arrangement. Having spoken to 
another adviser (who is acting as her representative in this complaint), she is concerned the 
advice she was given  may have been unsuitable, and that she ought to have  stayed in her 
defined benefit  pension, rather than transferring to the income  drawdown  arrangement. 
Background
Mrs J was a member of the defined  benefit  occupational pension scheme (OPS)   from 
1990 to 2007. The advice  subject to complaint was given in February and March 2015,  when  
Minster Ethical Moneybox (MEM),  Mrs Js long-standing financial advisor, was approached  
by her. A fact-find  was completed or updated  at this time. The advisors notes  recorded  the 
following: 
[Mrs J] has frozen  bank pension which she wishes to access  without taking or being  obliged 
to convert it to an annuity. She wants 5/6k to refurbish the bathroom and doesnt  want to 
touch savings 
This is only pension she has amount apprx £75k. Listened to what she wants  and heard 
what was wanted   so  lump sum only as no income wants  to leave funds under her control 
in view of problems re banking sector, govt restrictions and control over taking shares in 
[name of former employer] to fund bale out etc
The fact-find recorded that Mrs J was married and had two part time roles  which  earned  her 
about £10,000 per year.  One of these roles  involved  working for the business owned by her 
husband, Mr J. Mr and Mrs J owned a property, which had a mortgage of about  10% of its 
value associated with it. 
The fact-find also recorded that Mrs J held approx. £4k/£6k in an ISA. This record had the 
following note written  against it:
emergency  money   do not touch. Reluctant  to use it for house reservations
And it recorded that Mr J had a personal pension,  with a value of approximately £115,000, to 
which he was making monthly contributions of £300. In relation  to this the advisor noted:
[Mr Js] pension not to be touched as he is paying in £300 pm and is building up nicely   we 
are aiming for £200,000 as sizable pension pot for when he wants to retire.  No set time-
scale as yet poss 2019ish. mortgage  used all the time so not to be repaid just yet 
On the latter  point the fact-find notes elsewhere:
They do not want  to pay off mortgage  as they use this for other  means  tax payments for 
[Mr Js] business 
It was recorded  that Mrs J wanted to retire at age 65 and Mr J at 65/66 . Mr J was around  a 
year older than Mrs J. 
Ref: DRN85529072The normal  retirement  date associated with Mrs Js OPS membership was in December 
2015, when Mrs J turned 60. Under  the terms of the OPS benefits  could be taken from age 
55, with a reduction to reflect the likely longer period of payment, or deferred  and taken later 
with an increase to reflect  the likely  shorter period of payment. Mrs J had obtained a Cash  
Equivalent Transfer  Value (CETV) of the OPS and the transfer value was approximately 
£75,150 as at 9 February 2015.
A risk profile questionnaire was completed  and Mrs J was assessed  to be a low to medium  
risk investor, with a risk rating  of three  to four out of ten.
An application to transfer the CETV  of the OPS to the drawdown arrangement was 
completed on 12 March  2015. 
A Financial Report was produced by MEM, setting out its advice. This is undated,  but is 
signed as having been received and read by Mrs J with the date 12 June 2015. 
In relation to Mrs Js objective,  the report included the following: 
You are working  part-time but are aiming  to retire  fully within  the next 6 years,  but not 
withstanding this, you now wish to draw benefits  from your pension plan. Having undertaken 
a full review of your circumstances  you wish to address only this objective at this time 
You are particularly interested in obtaining  some  of the tax free cash sum from your frozen  
[name of former employer] pension in order that you can use this to make  some home 
alterations. You do not want to take the full 25% tax free cash  amounting to £18786.86, 
because we agreed that you only require  £6,000  at this time for your home  renovations and 
would prefer to keep  the remaining funds invested  for as long as possible but keep 
maximum flexibility to drawdown further cash sums if necessary. As you continue  to work, an 
income from this source is not required.
The report  confirmed:
The option that I [MEMs advisor]  have  decided  is most appropriate  for you is the 
[name of product  provider] Flexible  Retirement  Plan - Income Drawdown.
we have  agreed  that utilising flexible drawdown is the most suitable option  for you in your 
particular circumstances  because you have a substantial fund value and are able to accept 
the investment  risk inherent with income drawdown because  you already have a modest 
amount in savings  and income from your joint incomes to cover expenditure.
The report  included the following under critical yield:
In respect  of the portion of the fund that has been  designated to drawdown, the Key 
Features Illustration that I have given you demonstrates the investment return  required in 
order to provide and maintain a level of income that is equal to the conventional annuity that 
could be purchased with the funds that have been designated to drawdown  at outset . The 
annuity on which this is based is £3586.85 per annum on the basis of 0% spouse's  pension,  
nil guarantee period,  and 0% escalation. The annual return  required to match  this annuity is 
8% at age 70, 7.1% at age 75. The illustration also demonstrates the investment return 
required in order to provide and maintain your chosen level of income. The annual  return  
required is 7% at age 64, 7% at age 65 and 7% at age 66.
Ref: DRN85529073The report  also confirmed that:
MEMs fee was 4% of the transfer value (around  £2,200)
The annual management charge for the fund the money was to be invested  in was 
1.45%. 
MEM  would charge  1% of the fund value for ongoing investment services. This 
would be paid to it out of the drawdown  arrangement. 
MEM did not uphold Mrs Js complaint. It said all other options for raising the £6,000 Mrs J 
wanted had been considered and discounted,  and its advice  had met her stated objectives. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He thought  the 
advice Mrs J had been given was unsuitable.  He said, in summary:
The critical yield of 8% a year highlighted that the transfer wasnt  in Mrs Js interests 
as she had little prospect  of improving the benefits  provided  by the OPS by 
completing a transfer out.
Mrs J had other alternatives to fund a bathroom  as opposed  to transferring her OPS  
into a drawdown.
Valuable guaranteed benefits were lost as a result of the transfer including  a 
dependents pension and index-linked pension increases.
MEM did not accept the adjudicators view.  It said, in summary:
Mrs J had already asked for a transfer pack from the OPS when she approached 
MEM. 
When MEM was approached Mrs J had already employed a contractor to start work  
on her and Mr Js home, and work was well underway. 
Mrs J told MEM she wanted  a cash sum to cover the cost of the works and that the 
work had been financed  in part by a credit card,  for which  repayments were  pressing. 
MEMs starting point was that savings should  be used, but this was declined. 
The option of using the mortgage was fully explored. 
MEM  had spoken to Mr Js pension provider, but this option  was going to involve 
considerable cost.  Also, Mr J wanted to continue making contributions to his pension. 
The fund selected for investment in the drawdown arrangement was matched to Mrs 
Js attitude to risk. 
Mrs J did not want  to take an income  and was not planning to retire any time soon. 
She wanted to keep  her options open. 
Mrs J wanted flexibility, and to have the option  of structuring her own income,  rather  
than receiving a set annual sum.  
Dependents  pensions were discussed. The OPS had Mr J nominated  as the 
beneficiary, but the drawdown arrangement had the option of nominating  Mr and Mrs 
Js disabled son instead. 
Any annuity which would  have been  recommended would be based  on an increasing 
pension and 100%  dependents pension  an option not available through the OPS. 
Mrs J has since taken further  lump  sums,  and has yet to buy an annuity. 
The adjudicator was not persuaded  to change his view. The adjudicator felt that the fact that 
Mrs J had committed to some  expenditure wasnt sufficient to conclude  she had compelling  
reasons to transfer. He added that, in any event, Mrs J was provided  with advice to transfer 
Ref: DRN85529074and wasnt treated as an insistent customer. He also noted that the beneficiary of the OPS 
could possibly have  been changed,  with the approval of the OPS  trustees.  
Mrs Js representative said that compensation should take account of the almost 
unquantifiable adult dependant issue, referring to the possibility of Mrs Js disabled  son 
being nominated as a dependent on the OPS.  The representative also referred  to the fact 
that the OPS was in the process of making a payment to all deferred female members, 
which would involve additional cost and effort on Mrs Js behalf.
After the complaint was referred  for an ombudsmans  decision MEM sent a further set of 
submissions. These reiterated the points  it had made in response to the view. 
MEM also said we should ask Mrs J why she has yet to purchase an annuity.  And it said an 
oral hearing  should  take place, as there were in its view a number of contested facts. I have 
considered the hearing request separately, and concluded I can fairly determine  this 
complaint without convening a hearing.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, and for broadly  the same reasons. 
Mrs J approached MEM for advice. When she did so, her sole objective  was to raise  £6,000  
to pay for home improvements. 
Like the adjudicator,  I am satisfied there were many options available  to Mrs J to achieve  her 
objective of accessing £6,000. She had savings which appear to have been of a similar 
amount. She and Mr J had a mortgage which it seems they could have taken further 
borrowing on. Mr J had a personal pension, which he would have been able to access.  And 
they were not recorded as having  any significant  debt, or impaired  credit  records, so it is 
likely credit would have  been available to them. 
MEM seems  to have discounted all these  options,  in most cases  it seems only because  
Mrs J did not want  to take them but additionally  in some cases  it seems because  it 
concluded they were  less suitable or appropriate  than transferring from the OPS  to the 
drawdown arrangement. For example, using savings  or credit seem  so to have been 
discounted without  further exploration because Mrs J preferred not to use those options. But 
using Mr Js pension (which it seems  was also against Mrs Js preferences)  appears to have 
been explored but discounted on the basis of complexity and expense.  
It was MEMs job was to advise Mrs J on the suitable course of action;  and that was not 
necessarily the one which met her preferences. If following her preferences meant taking an 
unsuitable course of action, MEM was obliged to advise  Mrs J accordingly, rather than 
advising the unsuitable course  of action to be suitable, because it was her preference to take 
it.  
Like the adjudicator,  I do not think the transfer from the OPS to the drawdown arrangement,  
which MEM  advised Mrs J to be the most  suitable or most appropriate option, was 
suitable. The transfer to the drawdown arrangement was clearly unsuitable. It was unlikely 
Mrs Js OPS benefits could be matched by the drawdown arrangement,  and the transfer to it 
was inconsistent with Mrs Js attitude to risk. 
Ref: DRN85529075The explanation of critical yield, quoted as 8% at age 70 (and 7.1% at age 75), given in the 
Financial Report is the amount of investment  return needed to provide  an income of 
£3586.85 per year with no spouse's pension, guarantee  period, or escalation. So the critical 
yield mentioned  was the investment growth required to match an amount  of annuity income 
which could be bought with no spouse's pension, guarantee period, or escalation using the 
money which was to go into drawdown, not that required to match the benefits  payable by 
the OPS. Its also not clear  whether this illustration allowed for the payment of 25% tax free 
cash or just the £6,000 Mrs J was taking. Acting fairly and reasonably, MEM  ought  to have 
quoted the yield required if the drawdown arrangement was to replicate the OPS benefits  i.e. 
provide 25% tax free cash, pay an income which escalated, and offered a spouse pension, 
to allow  her to make  a like for like comparison, and to have quoted this as of her planned 
retirement age of 65 and the normal retirement  date associated  with the OPS of age 60 . 
And I expect  these figures would have been higher  than the 8% quoted.  
Even if the 8% figure is accepted to be a reasonable illustration of what  was needed to 
match Mrs Js OPS benefits, that was a rate of growth inconsistent with Mrs Js low to 
medium attitude to risk, either in terms of the risk that would be associated with the sort of 
investment what would be necessary to attempt to achieve the growth  and the risk of the 
growth not being achieved and Mrs J receiving lower benefits as a result.  
The maximum assumed growth  rate used by the provider at the time, as shown in the 
illustration for the drawdown arrangement, was 5.5%. Mrs J needed growth in excess  of that. 
And the sort of growth required  (in excess of 8%) was that which would not usually be 
associated with a low to medium risk investment. 
This was also Mrs Js only pension provision and, although Mr J had a pension, it was 
modest. So Mrs J could  not afford to risk getting  lower benefits than those offered by her 
OPS. The OPS offered  significant guaranteed benefits, which Mrs J was able to take within  
months, immediately (with a small decrease),  or defer to a later date (which  would  likely  
mean the benefits being increased when paid).  And those benefits  were valuable to Mrs J  
she and Mr J only had their state  pension to rely on, plus Mr Js modest personal pension.  If 
the benefits were  taken  at age 60 the OPS would pay £3,104 annual  income,  increasing 
each year by the lesser  of the Retail Price  Index or 5%, and pay 50% to Mr J (or another 
nominated financial  dependent) for the remainder of his life, if Mrs J predeceased  him. And it 
would pay a tax free lump sum of around £19,000.  And, as mentioned,  these amounts would 
likely have been higher had Mrs J taken benefits later (such  as at her intended retirement  
age of 65) These benefits were too valuable for Mrs J to give up, given her age and 
circumstances. 
I do not think Mrs Js preference  not to use other options to access the £6,000, her 
preference for flexibility, or her concerns about the security of the OPS, outweigh  these 
points. They were not reasons to conclude the transfer was suitable. 
I note MEM  says the OPS  had Mr J nominated as the beneficiary,  but the drawdown 
arrangement had the option of nominating Mr and Mrs Js disabled son instead. 
MEM also says that any annuity which it would have recommended  would be based on an 
increasing pension  and 100% dependents pension, which was not an option available 
through the OPS. 
Ref: DRN85529076I am not persuaded these  are reasons to conclude the transfer  was suitable either. I have 
not seen any evidence to show Mrs J wanted  to nominate her son as a beneficiary  (and note 
that she later nominated  Mr J as the beneficiary of the drawdown arrangement)  but, in any 
event, the documentation for the OPS  says Where  no spouse's pension is payable,  you are 
able to nominate an adult dependent to receive  a pension on your death. Any nominee must 
be financially dependent on you at the time of death. Which suggests it was at least  a 
possibility  although it would have been something  that was ultimately for the trustees of the 
OPS to decide. And it likely wouldnt have been triggered whilst Mr J was alive to receive the 
spouses pension  instead.
In any event, I do not think annual increases and 100% dependents pension  were options  
which were realistic for Mrs J if she were to purchase an annuity using the cash in the 
drawdown arrangement. I think  the cost of such an annuity would have been prohibitive, 
resulting in an income far lower than that which would have been payable  from the OPS. So 
the availability  of additional options did not justify the transfer.  
Finally, I note MEM says (although this does  not appear to have  been  recorded in the 
contemporaneous documentation) that work  on Mrs Js home had already  started  and she 
had funded it at least  in part using  a credit card. But I do not think  this was reason  to 
conclude the transfer was suitable  either. As mentioned, I am satisfied other options were 
available to Mrs J. The requirement for the money to complete the works and/or pay off a 
credit card did not therefore justify the transfer. 
Given the above, I am satisfied that paying  around £2,200,  and incurring ongoing fees, to 
move to the drawdown  arrangement was not a suitable option in the circumstances, 
particularly given the relatively  modest sum Mrs J needed to access. Acting  fairly  and 
reasonably, MEM should have noted Mrs Js preferences but concluded  the transfer was 
unsuitable. And, with its regulatory obligation to give suitable advice in mind,  it should have 
told Mrs J that was the case,  and explained  why. It could  also have assured Mrs J of the 
protections offered to OPS such as the one of which she was a member, in response to the 
concerns she had expressed  about this (it could, for example, have explained that her 
pension was isolated from problems in the banking sector as it had a guarantee associated 
with it, and that there was pension protection the event  her former employer became 
insolvent). Mrs J could then have reconsidered alternative courses of action and reflected on 
the value of her OPS.  
Had such suitable advice  been given, I am satisfied Mrs J would have remained in her OPS. 
I think, had she fully understood the value of the benefits offered  by the OPS, and the 
disadvantages of transferring,  and had been advised against it, she would have taken  an 
alternative course of action. And, on balance, I think she would have taken  benefits  from the 
OPS at her normal retirement  date and have used an alternative  option to finance her home  
improvements. 
I note MEM  says I should ask Mrs J why she has not bought an annuity yet. But or the 
reasons I have set out I am satisfied Mrs J should have been advised to remain  in her OPS 
and would have  accepted  that advice. I think the actions she took,  following the unsuitable 
advice she was given,  are relevant only to how fair compensation should be calculated.  
I also do not think Mrs J having used the drawdown arrangement to make a lump sum 
withdrawal from her pension offers any retrospective justification for the advice to transfer 
either. The withdrawal  appears  to have been to meet a short term expenditure need, rather 
than to provide  income. And Mrs Js recollection  is she was advised  to withdraw money from 
Ref: DRN85529077the pension by MEM, rather than using other  options  to provide the sum. This appears to be 
in a similar vein to its original, unsuitable, advice. 
So I do not think I need to ask for any further  information to fairly  decide this complaint. 
Putting things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for MEM  to put Mrs J as far as possible,  into the 
position she would now be in but for the unsuitable  advice. MEM must therefore  undertake  a 
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Js acceptance of the decision.
MEM should  contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Js pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. It seems Mrs J has already had at least  
some use of her 25% tax free allowance. If she has not been  able to access  as much tax 
free cash  as she would  have been able to access, had she remained in the scheme,  an 
amount of compensation equivalent to the additional amount she would have  been  able to 
access should be paid without any notional deduction for tax. The remaining amount should 
be subject to a notional deduction  of 20%,  as this adequately reflects the likely tax position.
 
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs J within 90 days  of the date MEM 
receives notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added  
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  MEM to 
pay Mrs J. 
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Like the adjudicator,  I think  it is fair to ask MEM  to pay Mrs J £250 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset  its unsuitable advice has caused.  Im not persuaded this should be 
increased, to reflect  any cost and effort involved in receiving a payment which was to be 
Ref: DRN85529078made all deferred  female pension members of the OPS. I have not seen any evidence to 
show this involved significant additional cost and effort for those who had left the scheme (as 
opposed to those who remained members), assuming those who left did qualify for a 
payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold the complaint. Brian Portanier (trading  as Minster Ethical 
Moneybox), should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2020.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8552907