K820x#14Complaint
Mr B says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy 
when he took out a new credit card in 2007. 
Background
I can see that Mr B has already been  offered some money for the commission HSBC 
received from selling him the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail 
and didnt think Mr B had actually been mis-sold  the PPI policy.
Mr B disagreed and still thought he had been  mis-sold the PPI in the first place. He asked 
that an ombudsman  make a final decision about the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
I can see a copy of Mr Bs original credit card application. The form presented him with a 
yes / no choice about having  PPI with his new card. So I think he would have understood 
there was an option and he went  on to consent to the policy.
HSBC didnt provide  an advised sale so it needed  only to provide  Mr B with enough 
information so he could decide  for himself whether or not he wanted  PPI and whether it was 
right for him. There was a reference to further  information about the policy  rules directly  next 
to where Mr B made the selection for PPI and my experience  is that this included information 
about the charges and other important policy features. I therefore think he had enough 
information to decide what he wanted to do. 
I completely accept Mr B may not remember all this after such  a long time and its possible 
HSBC might have done a better job at explaining  things on its forms, but Im afraid  this 
doesnt change  what I think. This is because Mr B made the choice to have the PPI. He 
wasnt caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies and I think  the 
charges were affordable for him and similar  to those charged  by other providers  at the time. 
In the event of a successful claim on the PPI policy, Mr B would have also been able to have 
his outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. I therefore think  
these things were of use to Mr B and that may be why he decided  to specifically choose the 
cover on his application form.
Im very sorry to have  to disappoint  Mr B, but all the evidence points, quite strongly in my 
view, to him consenting  to the PPI. On the basis  of the evidence Ive seen, I cannot uphold 
his mis-sale complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN86450152However, it does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8645015