K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts unhappy  with the way HSBC UK Bank Plc has dealt with him.
background
Mr T lives abroad  but says he has retained his UK bank  account with HSBC.  He says hes 
received consistently  poor service from HSBC over the past few years.  It hasnt responded 
to him in a timely way and has responded  by post.  It also hasnt updated his personal details 
and has called him at unsociable times.  He also couldnt make an international transfer in a 
timely way and lost out on a good  exchange  rate. He wants  compensation.
TSB said in its final response that its abundantly clear the service Mr T has received hasnt 
been good enough. It was aware  his foreign  address triggered Safeguard and Common  
Reporting Standards  (CRS) and this lead to a lot of contact. It had sent secure  messages  
but these didnt reach Mr T because of a software  limitation on the number of characters 
used. Disappointingly  itd made unsociable  calls to him for which  there was no excuse. A 
second CRS form wasnt needed and the inconvenience caused is clear. Its updated the 
information it holds.  It couldnt give a guaranteed  exchange rate on a transaction as they can 
change anytime. If Mr T has anything urgent in the future he may find phone banking to be 
the better  option  rather than messaging.  It apologised  for the frustration caused. 
HSBC has provided  Mr T with a total of £200  compensation for whats  happened  and the 
poor service given.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary she said HSBC  has 
already identified any failings in its service.  And as it couldnt fix an exchange rate in 
advance on a transaction she cant  hold HSBC responsible for any loss Mr T says he 
incurred when he couldnt go ahead with it. She will not be asking it to do any more.
Mr T doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says HSBC 
tried calling him on the wrong number and called in the middle of the night. He completed 
the CRE  forms more  than once. It didnt respond appropriately to his question about a 
negotiated rate on an exchange transaction. It repeatedly didnt  provide  accurate or 
acceptable customer service by secure  email or on the phone. He couldnt  exchange his 
money and he lost out as a result. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear HSBC  couldve dealt with Mr T better on a number of occasions.  Some of these 
issues were the result  of it failing  to properly take into account that Mr T lived abroad. And 
some were  the result of it communicating with him poorly and not in a timely or accurate 
way. HSBC was entitled  to ask for the CRE forms and information. But its unfortunate Mr T 
had to complete  them  a second time.
HSBC has acknowledged  its failings and the frustration  its caused Mr T. Its paid him a total 
of £200 compensation for this. Taking everything into account, including  the level of awards 
we make,  I think this is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
Ref: DRN86803642Mr T would also like HSBC to compensate  him for the loss he says he suffered by not 
making a currency exchange  transaction. But I agree  with the investigator that as HSBC 
wouldnt have given  him a guaranteed  exchange  rate, as it varied from time to time, I dont 
think I can fairly or reasonably require it to pay Mr T any compensation for this suggested 
loss as hed like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ts strength of feeling and frustration, I think  HSBCs 
payment of a total of £200 compensation is fair and I cant reasonably  require it to pay him 
anymore as hed like.
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8680364