K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold  payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a loan in 2002.  
I can see that Mrs S appears to have taken out a number of loans with BOS. To be clear, my 
decision is about the PPI sold with the loan with account number  ending  3285 only. That is 
the third loan that Mrs S took out with BOS.  
I know that when  PPI was sold to Mrs S, BOS was trading  as Halifax.  But to keep things 
simple, Ill refer to BOS for the rest of this decision.  
background
Mrs S bought a regular  premium PPI policy. That means she paid her premiums every  
month and it could have  been cancelled at her request. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs S disagreed  with that view.  
In summary,  she said she was sure she hadnt  requested PPI. She questioned whether 
there were telephone  or written  records of her having done so. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs S, but I havent  upheld her complaint.  Ill explain why below. 
At the outset, I think its important to set out my findings about how PPI was sold to Mrs S. I 
can see from her credit  agreement (dated 29 July 2002) that the PPI section was not 
completed. So PPI wasnt  sold to Mrs S at the same time as she applied for the loan. Ive 
seen a Creditcare  Acceptance Form,  which is dated 26 August 2002. I can see from BOS  
electronic records that the loan account was opened  on 31 July 2002 and the PPI cover 
started on 29 August  2002. 
With that in mind and on balance, I find that the PPI was sold to Mrs S after the loan had 
started and funds had been transferred to her. If it had been  sold at the same  time she took 
the loan out, I would have  expected  it to have been  effective from the same date. I can see 
from the Creditcare  Acceptance  Form that the document had to be returned to BOS.  That 
suggests to me that the cover was sold over telephone. 
I cant know what was said during that telephone  call. I havent been given a call recording, 
which isnt unusual given  the policy was sold around  17 years ago. I wouldnt expect either 
party to keep records for such a long time. To help me decide whats likely  to have 
happened, Ive looked at what Mrs S told us. And Ive also considered the paper and 
electronic records BOS has provided.  
Ref: DRN81644672Ive carefully considered  whether Mrs S would have known this cover was optional  and she 
didnt have to buy it if she didnt want it. Mrs S told us that shed been given the impression 
over the years that taking PPI out would have helped to get her credit approved.  I dont 
doubt that what Mrs S told us is her honest recollection about what happened. But in the 
context of this particular sale, she hasnt told us of anything that BOS specifically did to 
enable that view. In any event, as the cover  was probably sold after the credit started, I cant  
say she would have  reasonably thought that PPI was a condition of her loan or that she 
thought it would have helped with having  her application approved.  Overall,  I think  Mrs S 
would have probably known she didnt have  to agree to this policy if she didnt want  it. 
I havent seen  any documentation to suggest  that this was an advised sale. But even so, 
BOS still had to give Mrs S enough  information about the cover so she could decide for 
herself whether  it was a good fit for her needs.  That information had to be clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
In the absence of a telephone recording,  I accept it is possible that BOS  didnt tell Mrs S 
everything it should have done  about the cover. The question for me now is whether she 
would have still taken  bought PPI if BOS had given her all of the information.  To help me 
decide what shes likely to have  done, Ive looked  at the terms and conditions of the PPI and 
Ive looked at what Mrs S told us about  her personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if shed  had to make  a claim on the PPI policy, Mrs S would have been  
covered for up to 12 months for each claim if shed been too unwell to work. Mrs S told us 
that shed have received six months  full pay and six months half pay from her employer if 
she was sick. With that in mind, the PPI would have  paid out for longer than her sick pay 
would have lasted  if she had to make a claim.  
Mrs S has provided us with information  about various other  means she had to repay  her 
loan. She argues that this shows  she wouldnt have  taken  the PPI policy  out. I can see that 
Mrs S has made reference  to life insurance  and death in service benefit. But those policies 
wouldnt have paid out if Mrs S was simply off sick from work. 
Mrs S said that she had savings that were the equivalent of a significant proportion of her 
annual salary. She also told us that shed received a lump sum from her pension. Ive 
thought carefully  about what Mrs S told us in this regard. However, I can see that Mrs S took 
out two subsequent loans  with Halifax. So it appears that even  if her savings were at the 
level she remembers, that she wanted to keep them intact. Otherwise,  its unlikely she would 
have taken out further interest bearing loans. With a PPI policy,  she would have been able to 
meet her monthly repayments and retain  her savings. 
Mrs S also told us that a family member was earning  a good salary and that he would  have 
been able to help if she ran into financial difficulty.  I dont at all doubt that it would have been 
the intention of that family member to help. But circumstances  can change and theres no 
guarantee that assistance would have been available  to Mrs S as and when she needed it. 
Mrs S further argued that she had significant equity in her property which  could have been 
realised in order to repay her loan. But doing so would have meant she had to sell her 
property or raise further borrowing  in the form of a mortgage to access that equity. I dont 
think she would have  realistically wanted to sell her home to repay  this loan. And raising a 
mortgage if she was out of work  because of sickness could have proved difficult.  Objectively 
and on the balance of probabilities, I dont think equity in a property  would have affected her 
decision to buy a PPI policy. 
Ref: DRN81644673Whilst I appreciate that Mrs S will be disappointed  with my decision, I dont think  more or 
better information about the cover would  have put her off buying  it. It follows that for the 
reasons set out above, I havent  upheld her complaint. I dont require BOS  to take any 
further action  in respect of it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8164467