K822xcomplaint
Mr R and Mrs S complain  that in 2017  Santander  UK Plc mistakenly  gave them a mortgage 
to buy a property  which adjoined a non-traditional unrepaired Wates pre-cast reinforced  
concrete (PRC) property,  and was therefore  outside  Santanders lending  criteria. 
Consequently when they applied in 2018 for a further advance  for house improvements, 
Santander declined.
To resolve  their complaint  they want Santander  to pay them the difference  between the 
current value of the property and what they paid for it, and their wasted architects  and 
planning application fees.
background 
Mr R and Mrs S had a mortgage with Santander on a 2-bedroom terraced house. In 2017 
they planned to move to a 3-bedroom semi-detached house. They shortlisted some houses 
and approached Santander with their first choice.  
Santander was happy with their affordability, did the credit check  and requested  a valuation 
for mortgage purposes on the new house.  The valuation  for mortgage purposes dated  
26 September 2017 said:
The general condition of the property appears consistent with its age and type of 
construction. It is our understanding that the original house (c.1960) was of non-traditional 
PRC construction and subsequently  demolished/reconstructed (c.1999) to modern
standards. The abutting  semi-detached  house  remains in original  order.  Ongoing 
maintenance and repairs  will be required.The  property's  former  non-traditional 
construction/ex local authority status and existence of unrepaired example next door may 
deter some purchasers and affect marketability. This is reflected in the mortgage valuation.
The mortgage valuation  was £478,000.  Santander  approved a mortgage  loan of £287,799. 
Mr R and Mrs S sold the 2-bedroom house and bought the 3-bedroom  semi-detached  house  
in November 2017. Its a solid brick-built property. It had been demolished in 1999 by the 
previous owners  as it was initially a concrete build, and rebuilt  so the mortgage  valuation 
was correct about the former and current construction.
In April 2018 Mr R and Mrs S decided to extend the house by making a study  and a new 
kitchen. So they approached Santander for a further  advance. The mortgage adviser did an 
affordability check and a credit check and said that Santander could provide £75,500, 
subject to valuation.  
Mr R and Mrs S proceeded  to instruct an architect  and pay his fees, then submitted his 
drawings to the council  and paid the planning application fees. 
Santander required a new mortgage valuation and the surveyors inspection took place on 
11 June 2018.  On 12 July 2018 Mr R and Mrs S were told by the mortgage  adviser  that the 
further advance  application was declined.  
The new valuation said the property was built in 1955. It continued:
Ref: DRN81874312The property is believed  to be a non--traditional construction repaired Wates  PRC attached 
to an unrepaired  PRC  property.  This is outside lending  criteria.
On 19 July 2018 Santander  wrote  to Mr R and Mrs S confirming that was the reason why 
their application  was declined.
Mr R and Mrs S say the valuation report was incorrect. They have a planning permission 
which shows that a planning application was submitted in 1998 for a new brick-built  
construction and the house  was reconstructed  in 1999 using bricks. 
They say their entire plans of extending their house  have come  to a standstill.  They have 
approached another lender for a remortgage  but were  rejected  straightaway. No bank would 
be willing  to remortgage  the property. Nor can they sell the property  as it was overvalued 
and they would face a loss. Furthermore  they have lost time and money.  All this is causing 
them mental trauma and a lot of stress.
On Mr R and Mrs Ss complaint to Santander it said:
When we spoke on the 27 July 2018 I explained that we agree, the first valuation  should 
have denied that the property was an unrepaired  PRC building, however as we now know 
about the construction we cannot agree to the additional lending.
Santander offered  to waive  its early repayment  charge  (ERC) if Mr R and Mrs S were able to 
go to another  lender. It also said:
As you had mentioned the money  loss and inconvenience this has caused you and your 
wife, I asked you to provide me with the evidence of your financial costs you have  lost as I 
may consider them.As you failed to send  the documents in the time we agreed I cannot 
consider your costs  at this time.
Santander also paid Mr R and Mrs S £400 to recognise the surveyor's error in the 
September 2018 [sic] valuation and the distress and inconvenience this may have caused.
Mr R and Mrs S werent happy  with this and brought their complaint to this service. But our 
adjudicator didnt recommend it be upheld.
She said Santander had accepted the 2017  valuation and subsequently approved 
Mr R and Mrs Ss mortgage so that they could purchase the property. At this time, the 
property appeared  to be within Santanders criteria and they were happy to use this as 
security for the proposed  loan. The adjudicator said Santander instructed a qualified 
surveyor and was entitled to rely on the professional opinion  that this surveyor provided.  She 
didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong.
The 2018  valuation had said the surveyor believed the property to be a non-traditional 
construction repaired Wates PRC house  which was attached to an unrepaired PRC property. 
This was outside Santanders lending criteria and a £0 valuation was given for mortgage 
purposes. The adjudicator said Santander was entitled to rely on this new professional 
opinion. She didnt think it had done  anything wrong this time either.
The adjudicator thought  Santanders offers of £400  and waiver of the ERC were  fair. 
Mr R and Mrs S had paid for the architects  drawings  and planning application prior to having 
Ref: DRN81874313a full mortgage offer from Santander,  so she didnt think  these  were  costs that it needed to 
pay back.
Mr R and Mrs S didnt  accept the adjudicators recommendation and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the case. They said it was the duty of the lender to oversee if the 
survey report  met the lending criteria. If the alternative  lender  they approached could decline 
even without an application after getting to know  that the property was attached to a 
concrete property then why couldn't Santander  do so after knowing that an unsuitable 
structure remained attached on one side?
I took a different view of the complaint to the adjudicator. So I decided to issue  a provisional  
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
On first reading the papers I was unsure of Santanders position. In its response to 
Mr R and Mrs Ss complaint it had said:
we agree, the first valuation should  have denied that the property was an unrepaired PRC 
building, however as we now know about  the construction we cannot agree to the additional  
lending.
However it seemed  to me that the first valuation did deny that the property was an 
unrepaired PRC building. It said "former non-traditional construction".  So I asked Santander 
to clarify its position. In reply it said:
Although our mortgaged  property was demolished and a new dwelling was built in its place 
of conventional masonry, the property  it adjoins remains a non-traditional PRC constructed  
property therefore,  the property  does  not and did not meet  our Lending Policy.  Now that 
we are aware that our mortgage  property address adjoins an unrepaired PRC property, we 
cannot permit  any further borrowing as the property is not suitable security under our 
Lending Policy.
In other  words, the problem was that the adjoining  property  was PRC. But now that we are 
aware implies that this is something which Santander  learned for the first time from the 
second valuation.
However I dont think thats right. The first valuation said:
.the original house (c.1960) was of non-traditional PRC construction  and subsequently 
demolished/reconstructed (c.1999) to modern standards. The abutting semi-detached house 
remains in original order. Ongoing maintenance and repairs will be required.The  
existence of unrepaired example next door may deter some purchasers and affect 
marketability.
So Santander knew, when it granted the original loan in 2017, that the adjoining property  
was unrepaired  PRC.  If that was contrary to its lending policy  then it made an error  in 
lending to Mr R and Mrs S. The problem doesnt lie with some  fault by the 2017 surveyor.
Ref: DRN81874314What follows from this? I havent  seen the mortgage  conditions but I wouldnt expect them  to 
oblige Santander to make further  advances.  
Mr R and Mrs S will say in reply  that if Santander  had refused to lend in the first place, they 
wouldnt be stuck with a property they cant remortgage or sell except at a loss. But 
Santander didnt  owe them a duty to guarantee that the mortgage valuation put on the 
property by the first surveyor  was correct. In order to be put in that position, Mr R and Mrs S 
would have needed to commission their own survey  and valuation.
For that reason  I dont  consider that Santander  should have  to pay Mr R and Mrs S the 
difference between  the value of the property and what they paid for it. 
However, I do consider  it fair and reasonable that it should reimburse the wasted architects  
and planning  fees as well as waiving  the ERC and paying £400  for Mr R and Mrs Ss 
distress and inconvenience. I say that because:
Santander did make  an error;
those fees wouldnt  have been wasted  but for Santanders error  in overlooking the 
propertys failure  to comply with its lending policy in the first place.  The problem which  
arose was unusual and not reasonably foreseeable by Mr R and Mrs S, and I dont 
blame them for proceeding as they did on the basis of the assurance given by the 
Santander mortgage adviser;
Santander told Mr R and Mrs S that it could  in principle lend them £75,500 when it 
should have known from the first valuation that the property was outside its lending 
criteria and that an application for a further  advance was bound  to be declined.  In those 
circumstances I consider it fair and reasonable that the fees which Mr R and Mrs S 
incurred should  be reimbursed.
This is subject to Mr R and Mrs S providing to Santander, if they accept the final decision, 
receipts or other written proof of the amounts  paid.  I note that the architects receipt  so far 
provided is for phase 1 only, but that may be as far as he got.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Mr R and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision.  Santander didnt respond to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party having objected to my provisional  conclusions, I confirm them here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to:
maintain its offer to waive the ERC  on Mr R and Mrs Ss current mortgage product if they 
wish to redeem their mortgage before the product expires;
reimburse to Mr R and Mrs S:
Ref: DRN81874315their architects fees; 
the fees they paid on their planning application.
This is subject to Mr R and Mrs S providing to Santander, if they accept my final decision, 
receipts or other written proof of the amounts  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8187431