K822xcomplaint
Mrs A complains that Active Securities Limited  (trading as 247 Moneybox) gave her loans 
that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mrs A borrowed seven  loans from 247 Moneybox  between March  and October 2013. 
Mrs As repaid the first six loans but wasnt able to repay the last loan which  is outstanding.
Mrs As complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  Our adjudicator  thought 
that the checks 247 Moneybox did before agreeing  loan 1 had been  enough.  But she 
thought more checks should have  been done by 247 Moneybox  for the remaining loans. She 
thought that better checks would have shown  that loans 5 to 7 werent affordable  for Mrs A. 
So she asked 247 Moneybox to pay Mrs A some compensation.
247 Moneybox agreed with that assessment. Mrs A didnt agree and said in summary that 
better checks would  have shown she couldnt  afford  loans 2 to 7 and her borrowing pattern 
and credit file should have  alerted 247 Moneybox that she was struggling. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mrs A accepts  my decision it is legally binding  
on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
247 Moneybox was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether 
Mrs A could afford to pay back each  loan before it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mrs A was borrowing, and her lending history, 
but there was no set list of checks 247 Moneybox  had to do.
247 Moneybox has told us about the checks it did before agreeing  the loans. For the first 
four loans it asked  Mrs A for details  of her income  and for loans 5-7 it asked Mrs A about her 
normal expenditure. And it also checked Mrs As credit file before  agreeing  some of the 
loans. Although the credit checks have been provided I cant  see what they showed 
247 Moneybox given the format of them.
The first loan that Mrs A took was relatively  modest  at £80 compared to the income that she 
had declared of £1200. At this stage in the lending relationship I agree with the adjudicator  
that it wasnt unreasonable to lend without doing any further  checking.
Mrs A applied for loan 2 within  a few days of repaying loan 1. I think that a short  gap might  
suggest that there was a difficulty and I agree with the adjudicator that for subsequent loans 
247 Moneybox should  have asked  Mrs A about her outgoings to check she could afford  the 
credit. 
Mrs A continued to borrow and at the point of loan 5 the amount she asked to borrow  had 
increased significantly. This was now her fifth loan request in as many months. I think by 
now 247 Moneybox  should have realised  that it was unlikely that Mrs As finances were  as 
healthy as she was saying. I think the lender should have taken steps to independently verify 
Ref: DRN89788052Mrs As true financial position.  And I think the same checks would have been  proportionate  
for the last two loans. They were both taken  very shortly after a previous loan had been  
repaid. And the amounts Mrs A asked to borrow remained consistently high in comparison to 
her declared  income.
But although  I dont  think the checks 247 Moneybox did before agreeing  loans 2-7 were  
sufficient, that in itself doesnt mean  that Mrs As complaint should succeed. Id also need  to 
be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown 
247 Moneybox that Mrs A couldnt sustainably afford those loans. So Ive looked at Mrs As 
bank statements, and what  shes told us about her financial  situation,  to see what better 
checks would have  shown  247 Moneybox.
Had 247 Moneybox  asked about Mrs As normal outgoings before agreeing loans  2-4 it 
would have concluded that she could  afford  these loans. I appreciate that Mrs A says that 
she was in a difficult situation and was gambling. This would only have  become evident  to 
247 Moneybox on review of her bank statements and I dont think  this was a proportionate 
check for loans 2-4. I say this because the amounts remained relatively low compared to 
Mrs As income and although the borrowing was sequential Mrs A didnt seem to be in 
difficulty repaying at that stage. It is unlikely that Mrs A would have told 247 about  the true 
state of her finances  if it had asked her about her outgoings and so I cant  say that better 
checking would have made  a difference.
I know that Mrs A says her credit file would have  showed  defaults.  This in itself isnt 
necessarily a reason  not to lend. The credit  file seen by the business is unlikely to have all of 
the information that is visible to Mrs A. The business  didnt have to carry out a credit  check  
but it should have taken  into account  information that it obtained  as a result. On the basis of 
the information I have seen I cant say that the credit check  shouldve prompted  the business  
to carry out further  checks.
However, as the borrowing went on I think that 247 Moneybox needed to do more and verify 
Mrs As financial position.  When Mrs A applied for her fifth loan for an increased  amount it 
was no longer safe to rely on what she was saying about her finances. If 247 Moneybox had 
done this checking it would have  seen that Mrs A was gambling  and borrowing from other  
short term lenders  and she didnt have enough  money to repay  her borrowing.
If 247 Moneybox had done what  I consider  to be proportionate checks  before the final three  
loans I dont think it would have agreed  to lend to Mrs A. So 247 Moneybox needs  to pay her 
some compensation.
Ref: DRN89788053putting things right
I dont think 247 Moneybox should have  agreed to lend to Mrs A loans 5 to 7 inclusive. So 
for each  of those loans  247 Moneybox  should;
refund  to Mrs A all interest and charges shes paid on loans 5-7, together with simple  
interest at the rate of 8% a year* from the date each  such sum was paid until the date of 
settlement; and 
remove any negative information  about these loans from Mrs As credit file.
write off any interest and charges that Mrs A hasnt paid;
deduct any capital  still owing from the compensation due;
If Active Securities Limited sold the remaining debt to a third party debt purchaser it should 
buy the debt back  before doing what Ive said above. If this isnt possible or it doesnt want to 
do this it should  (in addition  to the above if necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  Mrs A any interest and charges she has already paid to the third party plus 
8% interest simple per annum on each  amount  from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
instruct the third party  to remove any adverse information it may have recorded about  
the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 247 Moneybox to take off tax from this interest. 
247 Moneybox must give Mrs A a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mrs As complaint and direct Active Securities Limited 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8978805