K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited didnt offer him enough  for his 
written-off car after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
Admiral offered Mr K £2,575 for his car. It said it based the offer on a review  of the 
valuations set out in three  of the national trade  guides for similar cars. Mr K didnt think  the 
offer was right. He said the car cost £11,662  when purchased and that it was bought with 
many extra features to the basic model.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ks complaint. He checked two of the valuations  
Admiral had used. The third valuation wasnt available, so he checked  the one given in a 
fourth national trade guide. He said the offer Admiral made  was the highest  of all the guides 
valuations - even though  it could fairly  have  offered  him an average  of them instead. 
The investigator noted that Admiral  deducted Mr Ks £400 policy  excess from the sum it 
offered Mr K. He said that was in line with the policys terms and conditions.  He also noted 
that Mr K thought  Admiral should refund some  of the policy premium. The investigator said 
the full premium was payable. He said that was because  Mr K had made a claim on the 
policy that Admiral had dealt with. He said Admiral was under no obligation to reduce Mr Ks 
future renewal quote, as Mr K had suggested.  
Mr K didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint was passed  to me for review.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
Under the policy, Admiral  was only required  to pay Mr K the pre-accident market value of his 
car. We think  the best way to establish a cars market value is to look at the valuations set 
out in the national trade guides. Theyre  based on the likely selling prices  of cars  rather 
than the asking prices  shown  in adverts, which are subject  to change. 
According to the new vehicle invoice  Mr K gave us, the car was 12 years old at the time of 
the accident. Cars normally  lose a lot of their value over time. It seems the car had many  
features that would not have been  in a standard model.  But extras dont always  add to a 
cars market  value. And they also lose value over time. As Admiral  offered Mr K the top 
valuation of all four national trade guides, I dont  think Mr K can show that it acted 
unreasonably. I dont think theres persuasive   evidence to the contrary.
It seems  Mr K thought  his policy excess was only £150. As it was actually £400, that sum 
was taken from the settlement. The policy excess has to be paid when a claims made, so I 
dont think Admiral was wrong to deduct  it. Mr K wasnt due a refund of the policy premium, 
as Admiral settled his claim, and thats what Mr K paid the premium for. It makes  no 
difference if the premium is paid in one lump sum. I dont think Admiral had any reason to 
agree to reduce the premium payable on the policys future  renewal.  I think it acted in line 
with the policy and / or with standard industry practice in relation to all these issues.  
Ref: DRN89764632As I think  Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Mr Ks claim, I cant  uphold  his 
complaint about  its actions.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8976463