K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, will not refund some disputed  
transactions.
background
Ms T says that ATM transactions carried out on her Everyday Saver account  between 7th 
and 17th September  were not made by her.  She says she realised  this card was missing  
from the purse where she normally keeps it on 21st September.  On that day, she contacted 
Halifax and requested a new card.  No conversation appears to have taken place about the 
cards usage in the preceding weeks.
She says she hadnt given the card to anyone and neither had she shared her PIN with 
anyone.  She doesnt know how it was possible for someone to have obtained  this 
information and withdrawn all the money  from her account.
Ms T complained to Halifax on 12th October 2018  when she went into a branch and spoke to 
a member of staff there.   She  does  not have online banking and says she only realised this 
money had been  withdrawn when she saw a paper statement.
Halifax did not uphold  her complaint.  Whilst Ms T had an explanation for the loss of her 
card, she couldnt  explain  how a third party was able to work out her PIN.  There  had been 
no incorrect attempts to use Ms Ts card  so Halifax concluded she had authorised the 
transactions.
Ms T brought her complaint to this service where  our investigator looked into matters for her.  
She (the investigator) did not think she could  ask Halifax to do anymore  so Ms T asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests it more likely than not that Ms T authorised 
these transactions,  Halifax is entitled to hold her liable  for them.   Its not enough to show that 
the transactions were authenticated  Halifax needs to show  Ms T also consented to them 
being made.  
Im satisfied from what I have seen that the payments were  authenticated   and by that I 
mean Ms Ts genuine card and PIN were used  to make the withdrawals.  I therefore need  to 
decide whether  I think Ms T also consented to them and so, whether it is more likely  than not 
she authorised these transactions.
For the following  reasons,  I think she did consent  to the withdrawals:
-Ms T submits she was shoulder surfed  and then pickpocketed and that is how her 
card and PIN were  compromised.  But I cant see how that could be possible 
because Ms T says she kept her card in her purse  with all her other  cards  and this 
was the only one missing.  If I were  to accept her explanation, I would have to accept 
that a fraudster was able to take her purse,  remove this one card and replace her 
Ref: DRN87004732purse without Ms T realising.  That seems like quite a sophisticated theft  and all 
without the fraudster not even knowing whether  there was any money in this account.  
Im afraid I dont think thats  likely  to have happened;
-Ms T submits there were some incorrect PIN attempts made during the withdrawals  
but I have not seen  evidence of that.  It follows that the person making  the 
withdrawals knew the PIN from the first attempt.
-I have also not seen any evidence of any balance enquiries  which  means the 
person making  the withdrawals must have known the balance  on the account (as the 
withdrawals stopped once the account  had been  emptied);
-Ms T goes from using the account  regularly  to not needing to access  it at all.  She 
says the disputed transactions were unusual  activity on her account and that this 
should have alerted  Halifax to the fact that something was wrong.  I dont think  the 
activity is actually  that unusual.  She was making numerous ATM withdrawals just 
days before the disputed  transactions  started.  And when she was asked  how she 
was funding herself for the period of September, she provided this service  with an 
alternative bank account.  But I cant see that she was able to use that account either 
due to the lack of funds.
So, for all those reasons,  I think Ms T either made  these withdrawals or authorised someone 
else to do them.  Either way, I wont be asking  Halifax to refund them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8700473