K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they explained that, although 
BOS says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission  on the policy, its made 
an offer as if it had.
Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information  
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. But BOS has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of 
the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons for each 
of these conclusions  below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
BOS hasnt been able to provide us with Mrs Ms signed credit  agreement or application, 
but I dont think  thats surprising  given  how long ago the policy  was sold. But I have seen  
a sample of the kind of application form BOS  was using at the time, and Im satisfied this 
sample is representative of what Mrs M would  have  seen. The application form included 
a section relating  to PPI which asked customers to tick a box if they wanted the cover, 
and there was nothing on the form to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So with 
everything Ive seen, I think its more likely BOS made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Ref: DRN80643842BOS recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, shows that the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. For example  Mrs M was eligible for the cover  
and seems to have had a need for cover as it would have lasted longer than shes  told 
us her sick pay would  have. 
Mrs M has told us she was new to her job when she took out the PPI, and the policy did 
include a requirement  that Mrs M needed  to have been in continuous work (with  one or 
more employers) in the six months prior to becoming unemployed if she wanted to make 
an unemployment claim. But I dont think the requirement to be working for six months 
before being able to make  an unemployment claim would have put Mrs M off buying the 
policy. I say this because  all customers would  have had to wait 90 days before being 
able to make  a claim for unemployment, and if Mrs M hadnt been  working  before  
starting her new job she would have only had to wait a couple of months  more  before 
she too was eligible to claim. Its also worth bearing  in mind that as Mrs M had only very 
recently joined her employer its likely shed have received limited redundancy pay if she 
had lost her job. So I think she would have valued  the unemployment cover  once  she 
became eligible for it.
And there was nothing  else about Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would have 
made it difficult for her to claim.  She also hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs M as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar  to what she reasonably  thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think  Mrs M 
would have declined  the cover had BOS done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think  she 
would have still thought she had some  good  reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs M would have still taken  out PPI. I think the policy  could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mrs Ms representative has raised  a number  of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BOS should  have  disclosed  the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ref: DRN80643843I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case.  But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BOS  didnt need to disclose the commission  it received  but in 
any event BOS has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres  nothing  more it 
needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mrs Ms representative has made  a number  of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mrs M should  get back all the money  she paid for the policy  
because: BOS failed to tell Mrs M about  the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  I should  find that Mrs M wouldnt have taken out the policy had 
they known about the level of commission and she should receive  a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, BOS has told us that the commission for Mrs Ms PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how BOS has worked  this out and based  
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs Ms case was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN80643844I dont think BOS needed to tell Mrs M about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think BOS treated Mrs M unfairly. 
This means  BOS doesnt need to pay Mrs M back any of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
But in any event BOS  has offered to give back to Mrs M some  of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mrs M as if it had treated her unfairly.  So I dont think it needs  to do anything  more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mrs Ms complaint or make  any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland plc didnt need  to disclose the commission  it 
received, it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mrs M paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. Bank 
of Scotland plc should now make arrangements to pay Mrs M if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.  
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8064384