K822xThis complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs H bought  a Total  Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into 
sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and critical 
illness cover.  Mr and Mrs H took the PPI section which  covered  accident and sickness only.  
Ive looked at the sale of the PPI cover only. 
Mr and Mrs H also had two other TMPP policies that they took out before  2009 that have  
now been resolved so I have not considered these sales within  this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
The PPI covered Mr H only so I have mainly  considered his circumstances at the time of the 
sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs H have told us Mr H wasnt given the option to 
decline the PPI. I dont know for certain  what was said when the policy was sold,  and there  
isnt much paperwork available, but from what we know about  how Halifax  sold this type of 
policy at the time I think its likely Halifax made Mr and Mrs H aware the PPI was optional, 
and they chose to take it out, although I can understand why they may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Ref: DRN87194272Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8719427