K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that TSB Bank  Plc made errors  with the administration of her credit card 
account meaning she was told she had to pay a large sum at short  notice when she thought  
her account  was up to date.
background
Ms R had a current account and credit card account  with TSB. She set up a direct debit to 
pay the balance  due on her credit  card each month.  
In May 2018, due to a problem with TSBs  systems, Ms Rs direct debit payment wasnt  
taken. On 31 May Ms R called to query her credit card balance as it was higher than 
expected. TSB noted that her direct debit had failed and agreed to refund her the interest  
that had accrued that month.
As Ms R now had a higher payment to make, she cancelled the direct debit for that month  
and made  two manual payments to clear the direct card balance.  She was told the direct 
debit wouldnt go out in June 2018  as it had been cancelled  and she set up a new one to 
start from July 2018.
Unfortunately, what TSB told Ms R wasnt correct; as shed only cancelled  the direct  debit a 
few days before it was due to go out, it was too late for it to be stopped. So the full balance 
due on her credit card  £3,789.61  was taken from her current  account.  This meant  shed 
paid the debt twice and her credit card was £3,789.61 in credit.
When Ms R realised what had happened, she called TSB. It says an indemnity claim was 
raised, to have the £3,789.61 debited  from the credit card and moved  back  to the current  
account. But due to an error, this didnt go through properly. Although  the money was 
returned to Ms Rs current account, it wasnt debited from the credit card. And due to TSBs 
system problems, Ms R couldnt access her credit card statements. So she wasnt aware 
that her credit  card account was still in credit.
Shortly after, TSB spoke to Ms R again  and agreed  to refund the amount that her account 
was in credit  by. At that time it was £2,314.20 as shed used her card to make  some further 
purchases. This amount  was taken from her credit  card and credited to her current account. 
This meant that Ms R had been  refunded money that wasnt  due to her, because shed 
already had a refund  of £3,789.61 the week before.
It wasnt until December 2018 that TSB realised it had made an error. TSB told her that she 
owed £3,789.61 due to a failed indemnity claim.  Ms R didnt know what  an indemnity claim 
was and didnt  recall making one. She was confused  and upset to be told about this debt,  
especially as it was just before  Christmas. She complained to TSB and then to this service, 
asking for the balance  to be waived.
Our investigator didnt  think TSB should  have to waive the payment. She said Ms R had 
been refunded  twice  and so it was fair for TSB to ask her to repay the amount owed. But she 
agreed that the way things had been handled would have been upsetting for Ms R, and 
shed been put to some trouble trying to sort it out. She recommended  that TSB pay 
compensation of £350 to reflect this. And she said Ms R shouldnt  be put in financial  difficulty 
due to TSBs  errors,  so it shouldnt add any interest  or charges to the balance, and should 
agree a plan with Ms R, giving her a reasonable time to repay  the money.
Ref: DRN87548232Ms R didnt think this payment was fair. TSB said its system wouldnt allow it to simply waive 
the interest,  but after further correspondence with our investigator  it agreed the following:
a member of staff would waive the interest  every  three  months for 24 months  from 
March 2019  up to March 2021;
late payment charges  will still be applied if Ms R misses or is late making the 
required minimum payment;
it would  increase the compensation  to £500.
Our investigator thought this was fair. Ms R was still unhappy with the amount of 
compensation. She said it didnt adequately reflect  all the distress caused to her at a time 
that was already difficult for her. Shes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Rs credit  card allowed her to buy things without paying for them immediately;  its 
effectively a way to borrow money for the purchase  of goods or services. At the time in 
question, the balance  on her card was £3,789.61. So in other words, she had borrowed that 
amount of money  and agreed  to pay it back. And TSBs terms and conditions would allow  it 
to charge interest if the full balance isnt cleared, and to add charges for late or missed  
payments. 
Its clear TSB made mistakes. And as a result of its errors, it charged Ms R twice and then 
refunded her twice.  These admin  errors  would no doubt be frustrating. But I dont think  thats 
enough to ask TSB to write off £3,789.61.
My aim is to put Ms R back,  as far as possible, in the situation she would have been in if 
things hadnt gone wrong. If the errors hadnt  happened, she would have paid back 
£3,789.61 at the time with no interest. So if that now happens, she will be in the position  she 
would have been in.
TSB did charge  some interest previously, but it has since been repaid. Ms R says she was 
shocked to find out she still owed money and wasnt able to pay it at once.  So TSB has now 
agreed to allow her until March 2021  to pay the balance  owed without  further interest being 
added. I think  thats  fair.
Ms R has said that as well as interest being  waived, she shouldnt have to pay any charges. 
TSB says she needs to pay at least the minimum payment each month,  and if she doesnt 
make this payment  in time, it may add charges. I think thats fair  shes  being given time to 
repay the debt,  and its reasonable for TSB to expect her make the minimum payment each 
month until she has paid it.
Ms R has also explained  that, following a bereavement last year,  shes now a single parent 
and shes had a difficult time financially as well as emotionally. So to suddenly  be told just 
before Christmas that she had to pay a large  sum of money at short  notice caused  a huge 
amount of stress and anxiety. She also had to take time off work to try to sort things out. She 
says no one at the TSB seemed willing to help and she was in an absolute panic. Whilst she 
wants to reach a settlement, she doesnt believe the compensation is nearly  enough and has 
suggested a payment of £1,000.
Ref: DRN87548233Ive thought about this carefully.  I appreciate she was very upset about what happened; it 
must have  been  a great shock. And she was put to some trouble sorting out what had gone 
wrong. If TSB had explained things clearly at an earlier stage, it would not have been as 
stressful for her. But TSB did then explain why the money was owed. And it has now said it 
will agree a reasonable time for her to repay it, without further interest  being  added.  Taking 
all of this into account I think £500  is a fair amount of compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct TSB Bank Plc to: 
allow Ms R to repay the amount owed of £3,789.61 by 31 March 2021, with no further 
interest added  to this sum;
if TSB is unable to waive the interest now for the whole period, it should  continue to 
review her account  and waive the interest every  three months until March 2021;
pay Ms R compensation  of £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8754823