K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy at a meeting in 2000 at the same  time as taking a mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim, it offered to pay Mr and Mrs Ms monthly 
mortgage payment  plus 25%. Initially this benefit  was £95.92 and cost £5.81 a month.
Mrs M was retired at the time. Mr M was employed  as a maintenance engineer. Hed been  
with his employer  around a year,  according to Halifaxs mortgage notes from the time. Mr M 
has told us he was entitled to less than 12 but at least six months full sick pay and three  
months full pay for redundancy.  Hes also told us there were £15,000 in savings available to 
pay the mortgage if he couldnt  work. Hes also told us he had a health issue at the time. 
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2004. Mr and Mrs Ms 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ms representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  shouldve  told Mr and Mrs M 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted  
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
Ref: DRN84710182adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN84710183The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ms 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN84710184Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs M have said they had no 
interest in PPI and said it was just included as part of their mortgage package. But Mr M 
signed a separate application form for the PPI and signed a box on the mortgage  application 
form to say he would like the PPI. Ive seen nothing from the time saying  Mr and Mrs M had 
to take the PPI or saying  Mr M had to sign the box or the separate  PPI application form for 
the cover  if Mr and Mrs M didnt want the cover. Also, theyve said nothing to make  me think  
they were pressured  into opting for cover. Taking  everything into account,  I think  its more 
likely Mr and Mrs M knew  the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs M say it didnt. But if Halifax did give 
advice, Halifax had to do more. With this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the basis that 
Halifax gave advice. This means Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs M. The adviser had information  about  some of their financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application   for example Mr Ms salary and length of service.
The PPI application  form suggests Halifax established that Mr M was the main income 
earner and wasnt aware of impending unemployment. But I dont think Halifax did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable and establish Mr and Mrs M had a need for it. Ive nothing to 
show that Halifax asked  Mr M about  his work  redundancy pay or sick pay, for example.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy and the cost of the policy  appears to have 
been affordable  for Mr and Mrs M.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy. It seems likely Mr and Mrs M wouldve suffered 
a fall in income  if Mr M couldnt  work for an extended period, even allowing for his work 
benefits. The PPI benefit wouldve helped them manage the consequences  of such  an 
income fall. Also,  by helping cover mortgage related costs, the policy benefit would help 
keep their savings - which theyd chosen  so far to not use to reduce the mortgage - intact 
Ref: DRN84710185or free to meet other  liabilities, at what could be a difficult time if Mr M were too sick to 
work or unemployed.  
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M. There  
was nothing about Mr Ms employment or occupation which  wouldve made it difficult for 
them to claim. Also,  as regards Mr M having  an existing health issue,  the policy  terms 
didnt exclude  disability claims arising from pre-existing health issues.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr M were  unable to do his job, or any similar job, and also 
unable to do any work his experience,  education or training reasonably qualified him to 
do. But it still provided valuable cover in Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  given the loss of 
income they could  suffer were  Mr M not working for a time and the role the policy  benefit 
could play as a result in helping them in that situation. Also, the policy helped protect the 
mortgage on Mr and Mrs Ms home,  so I bear in mind the potential consequences  were 
they to have become unable to make  payments on a loan secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description  of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would protect their payments if Mr M were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I say this 
because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would  have  taken  the PPI without  any sense of 
what it was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
Also, the PPI application form showed  the monthly PPI benefit  and monthly  PPI premium for 
the expected mortgage  payment   and in fact these figures were  in line with the actual cost 
and benefit when the policy started.  So I think its likely  Mr and Mrs M were  made  aware of 
the monthly benefit amount and how much the premium  would  be. But the evidence from the 
time of sale doesnt  tell us whether Halifax gave sufficient information  about the exclusions 
or limitations  before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs M, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs M all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN84710186-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor  value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent  did 
they suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs M. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I have found the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr and Mrs M 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs M would have acted differently or whether  they would 
have taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken it and believe  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs M had some  interest  in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax offered  them the PPI or advised them 
there was a suitable product they could buy that would  protect  their mortgage payments if 
Mr M were unable  to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, Mr and Mrs M 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Ref: DRN84710187As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs M were given about the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions,  wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr M be unable to do 
his own job or any similar job and also be unable to do any paid work which his 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking the PPI.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr M was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to 
Mr and Mrs M should the insured risks have become  a reality.  
Also, I havent seen  anything to suggest  Mr M wouldve been caught  by any of the significant 
exclusions - disability claims  related  to pre-existing issues  werent  excluded  and he was in 
permanent employment.  So, with all this in mind, I think Mr and Mrs M still had some good  
reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs M from taking  the policy, Mr and Mrs M, in their circumstances, still had some 
good reasons  to take it.
If Mr and Mrs M had known they could only claim for disability if Mr M were  not only unable 
to do his own or any similar job but also unable to do any paid work his experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into their thinking 
about what to do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although I think  
on balance they wouldve  still been interested in taking the cover, given their circumstances.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs M any claim they made would be limited to 24 months. 
This may have differed  from what they expected and mightve hoped for. But Mr M wouldnt 
have received full sick pay for even 12 months and his redundancy entitlement  was also 
significantly less than even 12 months  income. In those circumstances, I consider it likely 
Ref: DRN84710188Mr and Mrs M wouldve still thought a policy that paid up to 24 monthly  payments would be 
of benefit and help them manage the consequences should Mr M be unable  to work, 
particularly for an extended  period, in the circumstances  covered  by the policy. The policy  
allowed for multiple claims to be made, could reduce Mr and Mrs Ms outgoings and, by 
covering mortgage  costs,  could make it less likely their home  would be placed at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs M would  still have taken the policy. It was suitable for them, sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr M were made redundant, or unable to work due to accident 
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr and Mrs M wouldve 
taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they wouldve been in if they 
had not bought the policy. Thats because, while I accept its possible they would not have  
taken the policy,  Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more  likely than not they wouldve 
still taken the policy  had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information  about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they wouldve been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN84710189Im also aware Mr and Mrs M think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs M and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 September 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8471018