K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the refund he has received from Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) 
when he cancelled his car policy.
background
Mr P took out his policy in April 2018 for his car through a broker,  paying £112.00 in 
premiums. He sold his car and cancelled his policy on 30 October 2018. Ageas says it 
refunded 25% of the premium,  which  amounted to £28.00. This this was paid to the broker  
who administered the policy. Mr P says he received £26.93. He thinks  he should be 
refunded 50% of the premium  he paid.
The adjudicator ultimately thought Ageas hadnt done anything  wrong.  Mr P disagreed so his 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
I can see Mr P is unhappy with his overall refund. As the broker and insurer are separate 
businesses I cant comment on both of their actions in this decision. In this decision I can 
only consider what  Ageas   and not the broker  might or might  not have done  wrong.  That 
means I can consider  whether the £28.00 the insurer refunded to the broker  is fair and 
reasonable, but not the sales  process,  administration or any of the additional  charges  added  
by the broker. 
Insurers normally set out the refund rates in their policy documents  and/or sales literature.
The policy Mr P had said any refund would be made on what  is known as short  term rates 
rather than on a pro-rata basis. With short term rates a business charges a set percentage of 
the total premium  depending on how long the customer  has used the policy. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy say if he cancels it after six months   as Mr P did -
Ageas will refund 25% of the premium. This means the cost of the policy is weighted towards 
the beginning rather than being  equally spread across the year.  
I generally dont interfere with the way an insurer writes its insurance policies unless the 
terms are clearly unfair and the insurer cant explain why the policy is written as it is.
In this case the insurer has explained that the type of insurance  it was selling is often 
seasonable  people using their vehicles in the warmer months and choosing to cancel  
when the weather turns. This means the way it weights the risk is different to other car 
insurers who would typically expect the cover run a full 12 months.
This explanation by Ageas seems  fair to me and it follows that the refund it made  to Mr Ps 
broker was also fair and in line with what the policy says it will refund.
Ref: DRN87143792Of course,  I cant  comment  on what charges  the broker might have applied  because Ive only 
been asked to look into the actions  of Ageas. But I have seen evidence that £28 was paid to 
the broker by Ageas.
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr P was hoping for but I think  Ageas has provided  a fair 
and reasonable refund  in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8714379