K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Miss A are unhappy The Society of Lloyds has avoided their policy (treated it as 
though it never existed) and hasnt considered their claim.
background
Mr N and Miss A took out a buildings and contents insurance policy in November 2016; they 
renewed it in November 2017 via an independent  financial  advisor (IFA). The policy is 
underwritten by The Society of Lloyds.
In January 2018, Mr N and Miss A noticed  a leak in their home so they contacted  the insurer 
to make a claim for damage caused  by the escape of water. As part of its investigations, the 
insurer arranged for a loss adjuster to visit their house.
After visiting, the loss adjuster reported  that the property had a mansard slate  roof with a flat 
GRP roof covering  and that the proportion of flat roof was greater than the 30% accepted by 
insurers. The matter was referred to The Society of Lloyds and it concluded cover wouldnt 
have been offered had it known more than 30% of the roof was flat. It was also satisfied from 
photographs of Mr N and Miss As property that the roof was more  than 30% flat. It said              
Mr N and Miss A had given incorrect information about the roof at the time of taking out the 
policy and so it avoided  the policy. Its refunded the premiums back  to when the policy  was 
originally taken out. 
Mr N and Miss A disagree with The Society  of Lloyds  decision and so have brought the 
complaint to us. 
Mr N said they answered  the policy application questions  to the best of their knowledge. He 
agreed with the statement that the roof is no more than 30% flat because  this is what he 
truthfully believes. Mr N added the leak was caused by a radiator on the ground floor and so 
has nothing to do with the roof.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and decided The Society  of Lloyds had acted  fairly  
by avoiding the policy and returning the premiums. She said had Mr N and Miss A disagreed 
with the statement about the roof, they wouldve been directed to a non-standard insurance 
provider as The Society of Lloyds wouldnt have  offered cover.  And she explained  that its 
up to The Society  of Lloyds to decide what an acceptable risk is. 
Mr N disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said:
-the roof isnt flat.
-he and Miss A didnt  act recklessly or deliberately when answering the question  
they answered it to the best of their knowledge.
-the statement  didnt  say that if the roof was greater than 30% flat insurance  wouldnt 
be offered, so there was no way of knowing the intentional or unintentional benefits  of 
giving the answer they gave.
Our investigator considered Mr Ns further  points. She explained she didnt think                     
Mr N and Miss A had acted recklessly  when completing the application. But that it was their 
responsibility to ensure  they provided  correct information to the insurer. And as they were 
specifically asked about the percentage of flat roof, they ought to have found  this out as 
homeowners.
Ref: DRN89052682Mr N and Miss A still disagreed with the investigators opinion  and so the complaint has been  
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When doing  this, I need to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  why.
When a consumer buys or renews an insurance policy  theyll generally be asked questions 
about what they want to insure, or to confirm that the information  previously provided and 
held by the insurer is correct. Here,  The Society  of Lloyds used the information  provided by                           
Mr N and Miss A to weigh up the risk of insuring their house,  and based on the information 
they gave, it decided to provide cover. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) states  its the 
duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation to the insurer. 
An insurer  can take certain action, like avoiding a policy, if a qualifying misrepresentation 
has been made. 
The Society of Lloyds has avoided the policy and refunded the premiums from                  
November 2016,  as it considers information to have been misrepresented  at the time the 
policy was initially taken  out. The policy schedule from 2016 shows Mr N and Miss A were 
asked to agree or disagree with a statement that the roof was no more  than 50% flat. The 
Society of Lloyds has said the policy  schedule  provided doesnt accurately reflect what 
question wouldve been asked at the time.  It said Mr N and Miss A wouldve been asked if 
the roof was no more than 30%, not 50%. It said the incorrect percentage is showing on the 
document due to it being produced at a later date. But I can see that Mr N and Miss A 
agreed with the statement.
was reasonable  care taken?
Deciding whether  or not Mr N and Miss A took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation is to be determined in light of all the relevant  circumstances. CIDRA  lists 
examples of things  that may need  to be taken into account, including how clear and specific 
the insurers questions  were. 
When renewing the policy Mr N and Miss A were asked to agree or disagree  with the 
statement The roof of your property is no more than 30% flat.  Ive been provided with the 
screenshot and can see they answered  agree to this. 
From what  Ive seen, including photographs of Mr N and Miss As property and the loss 
adjusters report,  Im satisfied more than 30% of the roof is flat. The loss adjusters  report 
says 80-90% of the roof is flat, which is far greater  than the percentage                                          
The Society of Lloyds was prepared to insure   whether it be 30% or 50%. Im satisfied that 
it was clear what Mr N and Miss A were being  asked  and that the information they provided 
both when they took out the policy  and when they renewed it was incorrect.
Ref: DRN89052683Mr N has said he and Miss A answered  the statement truthfully. I have to keep in mind  
whether they took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.  Im satisfied the 
statements in question  were clear  particularly as a percentage was provided  and so, if 
they werent sure, I think its reasonable to have  expected Mr N and Miss A to have found 
out how much of their roof was flat in order to provide correct information.  
 
Mr N has said they answered  the statement truthfully, but I havent seen any supporting 
evidence to demonstrate why they held the belief that the roof was less than 30% flat. So I 
dont think Mr N and Miss A took reasonable care when they answered it.
is it a qualifying misrepresentation?
The relevant  law says an insurer has a remedy against a consumer where the consumer  
made a misrepresentation in breach of the duty to take reasonable care, and the insurer  
shows that without  the misrepresentation it wouldnt have entered into a contract at all (or 
would only have entered into it on different terms).  Such a misrepresentation is referred  to as 
a qualifying misrepresentation and is either  deliberate or reckless  or careless.   
Ive looked at the policy document  and it says:
If we establish that you deliberately or recklessly provided us with false or 
misleading information we will treat this policy as if it never existed and decline all 
claims. If we established that you carelessly  provided us with false or misleading 
information it could  adversely affect your policy and any claim.
For example, we will:
treat this policy as if it had never  existed and refuse to pay all claims and 
return the premium paid. We will only do this if we provided you with 
insurance which we would not otherwise have offered
The Society of Lloyds has said it wouldnt have insured Mr N and Miss As property if itd 
known the roof was more than 30% flat and so it has treated the policy as though it never 
existed and refused  the claim.  It has explained that if Mr N and Miss A had answered 
disagree to the statement, they wouldve  been directed to a non-standard insurer instead 
and a quotation wouldnt have been provided.  So Im satisfied it wouldnt have provided 
cover.
Mr N has said the answers given were to the best of his knowledge. So I dont think  he and 
Miss A knew the information provided was untrue or misleading. But they didnt take 
reasonable care when  answering the questions asked of them  and so Im more  persuaded 
they acted carelessly.   
Mr N has suggested that if its decided they didnt  deliberately or recklessly  misrepresent 
information, it should follow that the claim is accepted and the policy  reinstated.  But thats 
not right. The policy  terms set out that even if the consumer acts carelessly, the insurer  can 
still treat the policy as though it never existed or alter the terms of it. CIDRA also provides 
that, if the insurer wouldnt have entered into the insurance contract, it can void the policy.  
This puts the customers in the position  they would  have been in, if there  had not been a 
qualifying misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN89052684The Society of Lloyds is entitled to treat the policy as though it never existed so Im satisfied 
its actions are in keeping with the relevant law and the policy terms. And having considered 
all the circumstances  I think  its fair to do so. It follows that a claim cant  be made where a 
policy doesnt exist.  And thats regardless of the claim  (the escape  of water caused by a 
leaking radiator) being unrelated to the misrepresented information  (the percentage of flat 
roof). 
The Society of Lloyds has already returned  the premiums to Mr N and Miss A and so I wont  
be asking it to do anything  else. I know my decision is going to be disappointing for                 
Mr N and Miss A, but I hope they understand why Ive not upheld their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr N and Miss As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Miss A 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8905268