K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Ms M are unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  declined  a claim made under 
a health insurance  policy.
background
Ms M had the benefit of health insurance  through a company group healthcare policy  for 
which her partner, Mr L, was the named lead member on the membership certificate. That 
policy is underwritten by AXA and cover began in November 2016. 
Towards the end of April 2018 Mr L called AXA to make a claim on behalf of Ms M to cover  
the cost of an ear, nose and throat (ENT) consultation to look into a suspected sinus  
problem that Ms M had been to see her GP about. 
AXA declined the cost of the consultation on the basis  that Mr L had said that Ms M had 
suffered with a sinus issue around three  years  before and so concluded this condition was 
pre-existing under  the terms of the policy. 
Ms M proceeded to attend an ENT appointment to investigate the pain she was 
experiencing. It was recommended that she underwent sinus  surgery  and septoplasty  to 
improve the nasal  airway. The surgery took place  in July 2018. AXA has also declined to 
cover the costs of that treatment under the policy.
Mr L and Ms M say AXA was wrong  to decline the claim. They  dont agree that the condition 
Ms M received treatment for amounted to a pre-existing medical condition. So they 
complained to us.
Our investigator concluded that AXA hadnt  unfairly  declined Ms Ms claim so didnt uphold 
this complaint. Mr L and Ms M disagree so the complaint  has now been  passed to me to look 
at everything afresh and to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
A moratorium was applied to Ms Ms policy. That means under the policy AXA wont  pay for 
treatment of any disease, illness or injury which in the five years before cover  started 
(i.e. the end of November 2016) shed:
-received medication,  advice or treatment for; or
-experienced symptoms of  whether or not the condition was diagnosed. 
The terms of the policy say any such disease, illness  of injury amounts to a pre-existing 
condition.
Under certain circumstances a pre-existing condition can be covered, two years after the 
policy started for Ms M. But those circumstances arent relevant to this particular complaint. 
Having considered the medical evidence Im satisfied the symptoms Ms M had  and for 
which she ultimately underwent surgery for - were  present in the five years leading  up to 
Ref: DRN89319692when policy  cover started.  And I dont  think  AXA has unfairly declined the costs of the 
treatment being  claimed  for on the basis that it related to a pre-existing condition.  I say this 
because:
The histopathology report  dated  25 July 2018, produced  after the date of Ms Ms 
surgery, confirms a diagnosis of non-specific chronic sinusitis. 
The referral letter from Ms Ms GP to an ENT consultant dated 27 April 2018 says 
Ms M: has had problems  with her sinuses for many years and has used  regular 
nasal steroid medication
Ms Ms GP also completed a section of the medical claim form submitted to AXA 
dated July 2018  and says Ms M was prone to nasal blockage  / sinusitis  since  
January 2018  particularly but history dates  back some years. This is supported by 
the GP records. For example, its recorded in May 2014  that Ms M had dry eyes and 
blocked nose   doesnt think hay fever.  She was issued with a nasal spray.  That 
was approximately  2.5 years before cover started.
Ive also listened  to the call Mr L had with one of AXAs  representatives in late 
April 2018, when first notifying  AXA that Ms M wanted to make a claim on the policy. 
After declaring that Ms M was suffering with sinus problems, he was asked whether 
Ms M had suffered with this issue previously. He replies that Ms M had done   
around three  years before. He goes on to say that Ms M had sinus  pain and when 
she bent down, she felt pressure in her head. He says a diagnosis  wasnt  made but 
the pain did pass, after she was given  medication  to relieve the pressure in her 
sinuses. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account an email  from the ENT consultant which is 
undated but is from around  the end of October  / beginning of November 2018. The 
consultant says Ms M developed acute left unilateral pan-sinusitis, however the initial 
suspicion was also an inverted papilloma (which  is a tumour)  And that Ms M was on nasal 
sprays for chronic rhinitis not sinusitis  the acute sinusitis  was a recent event.
However, theres no reference to rhinitis in Ms Ms medical records from the relevant time. 
And the GP has made a repeated reference to Ms M having problems with her sinuses over 
a number of years. So Ive placed  more weight on whats said by the GP rather than the ENT 
consultant. That consultant only started treating Ms M in 2018 - whereas the GP records go 
back much  further than that (and from before the policy coverage started). Further,  as Ive 
explained above, Mr L told AXA in April 2018 that Ms M had experienced sinus  problems 
around three  years prior.  So, even if Ms M was suspected to have an inverted  papilloma, I 
still dont think AXA has unfairly declined the claim as its reasonable to conclude that Ms M 
had experienced symptoms relating  to the eventual diagnosis she received in July 2018 
within the five years prior to the policy starting.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr L and Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2019.
Ref: DRN89319693David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8931969