K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says she was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer,  have  taken responsibility  for 
the sale. To keep things  simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other 
business.
background
Mrs T bought the policy in 1997 over the phone, around six months after taking out her store 
card. It covered her in case she was off work  sick or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Having done that, I have  not found that this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago, so understandably neither side still have  a record of 
the phone  call. But Ive not seen any wider problems with FICLs sales process from the 
time, nor any evidence that it misled Mrs T into having PPI in this case. And the PPI was 
sold some  months after Mrs T got her card, which wouldve indicated that she didnt have to 
take PPI to get the card. Overall, I think its most likely Mrs T was given a choice about 
buying PPI and chose to take it  though I can certainly understand if she no longer recalls 
doing so after so many  years.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs T, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs T enough information  to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs T about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. From what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like Mrs T 
was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations.  She didnt have any other 
protection in place aside from the limited  statutory benefits. And while  Mrs T explained  she 
couldve used her dependants savings, the policy meant she wouldnt have to go to such 
extremes just to pay her store card. So the PPI could have been useful for Mrs T in case 
something went wrong. And so I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN82191512my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8219151