K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs D say Hinckley and Rugby Building Society (H&R) mis-
sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs D say that they were led to believe the PPI was compulsory. And H&R have 
agreed that the PPI was part of the mortgage  package Mr and Mrs D chose to take out, and 
the policy provided free unemployment cover  for the first 3 years. But if Mr and Mrs D didnt 
want the policy, they couldve chosen a different  type of mortgage  or a different mortgage 
provider. 
After the free period  ended, Mr and Mrs D received a letter from H&R  informing them  that 
the free cover had come to an end and that they would cancel the policy if Mr and Mrs D 
didnt complete the attached PPI application  form. H&R has sent me a copy of a PPI 
application form which was completed and signed by Mr D. In this form Mr D selected  single 
cover for himself  only and specified  the benefit  amount required. At this point the policy 
became an accident,  sickness  and unemployment cover.
So the PPI was a free, compulsory product for the first three  years  of Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage. And after this time, I think H&R made  it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have  to 
keep the PPI and they chose to increase the cover and continue with it in Mr Ds name  only 
 although I can understand  why they cant remember this now.
The PPI policy was something Mr and Mrs D had to take out at the time they took out their 
mortgage. But H&R still had to make sure that they were given clear information, and 
enough of it, to make a well informed  decision  when  agreeing to take the policy  and, by 
extension, the mortgage.  So thats what Ive looked at. 
Its possible the information H&R gave Mr and Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like they were  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. And even  though Mr D says he was entitled to some  sick pay at the time and had 
some savings in place. However, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  and in 
addition to any sick pay and savings. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful for them 
and I dont think better information about  the PPI would have put them off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive considered Mr Ds circumstances from 1999 when Mr and Mrs D chose to continue the 
cover in Mr Ds name only. And from what  Mr D has told me I havent seen that his 
Ref: DRN83045222circumstances changed in any way such that the PPI would no longer have been useful for 
them. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs D paid on their PPI  and whether H&R 
treated them  unfairly. 
H&R has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ds PPI was less than half of what  they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how H&R has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ds commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission   
so I dont think H&R treated them unfairly.  This means it doesnt need  to pay Mr and Mrs D 
back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN8304522