K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the increase in his latest premium on his home (contents) insurance 
policy held with UK Insurance Limited (UKI).
background 
Mr Ds insurance  policy  with UKI started  in 2012.  It initially cost £87.98 for the year.  Mr D 
engaged with UKI with each renewal  receiving loyalty discounts for the years 2015  2018. 
In 2018, Mr Ds premium with a 30% loyalty discount cost £79.52 for the year.  
Mr Ds latest renewal  premium for 2019 was to be £119.84.
Mr D thinks this price  increase is unfair. He says he has been  loyal to UKI and not made any 
claims. He doesnt  think the risk has changed and doesnt understand why the cost has gone  
up.
Unhappy Mr D referred the complaint to our service.
Broadly summarised UKI say that the price increased due to the removal of the 30% loyalty 
discount. It says Mr Ds policy cost less in 2018 than it did when  Mr D first took out the policy 
in 2012 which included a new business discount. It says it couldnt  maintain the discount  
and the removal  of the discount was to bring the policys cost to Mr D more in line with the 
actual cost of providing the insurance.
Our adjudicator thought UKI hadnt acted  unfairly  or unreasonably. As Mr D disagrees, the 
matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done,  I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. I know  this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr D, so Id like to explain  why.
First I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether UKI has treated Mr D fairly 
throughout the period  he held his insurance policy. 
When Mr D took out his policy in 2012, it cost £87.98 for the year. I understand there  was an 
introductory new business discount. This isnt uncommon and policies may well initially  be 
priced lower to attract new customers. I dont think its unfair  for an insurer to seek  to recoup 
that cost over the subsequent years.
But Mr D engaged with each renewal. And from 2015 through  to 2018  Mr D received an 
additional loyalty discount that went up by 5% each year.  In 2015 he received a 15% 
discount, in 2016 a 20% discount up until 2018  for which UKI offered him a 30% discount. 
This meant that by 2018 Mr D was paying  less for his insurance  than when  he had taken out 
the policy in 2012, which at that point included a new business discount.
Ref: DRN87601092As I explained above, I dont think its unfair  for an insurer  to seek to recoup the discount 
applied over the subsequent years a consumer  holds their policy. But in this case  it appears 
because Mr D engaged  with UKI with each renewal he obtained further discounts. So I cant  
say that UKI has treated  Mr D unfairly throughout the duration he held his policy.
I would like to add that I dont think its fair to expect an insurer to maintain a new business 
discount and further loyalty discounts  for the duration someone has their policy. UKI has 
made the decision to remove  the loyalty discount to make  the price  it wishes to charge for 
the policy more  reflective  of its actual cost and that seems fair.
I do appreciate Mr D paying £79.52 for 2018 and then receiving a quote for £119.84 would 
make him question whether he has been  treated fairly. But I hope, given what I have said 
above, that Mr D understands what has happened and why  and that overall UKI hasnt 
treated him unfairly. 
Mr D wanted additional compensation  for having to shop around  to obtain another policy.  It 
was for Mr D, as he was engaging with the renewal process, to choose whether he wanted  
to stay with UKI or, if he found a cheaper policy elsewhere, choose to switch.  So I dont 
uphold his complaint on this point  and I dont award any additional  compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
UK Insurance Limited  hasnt increased  Mr Ds home  insurance premium unfairly. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8760109