K820x#14complaint
Miss A and Mrs A complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed their joint accounts without 
giving them a reason for this decision.
background
Miss A and Mrs A held two joint savings accounts  and a current  account  with Barclays. But 
in late 2018 it wrote to them to say that it had made  the decision to close these accounts and 
gave them two months notice of this.
They complained that they hadnt been given a reason for this and that changing  their 
banking arrangements would be complicated  and stressful. They were worried  by not 
knowing why Barclays had made this decision in case it happened again at another bank.
Barclays said that it had reviewed the joint accounts and found that they no longer met its 
criteria. So it had given  a notice of closure of two months.  It said it was entitled  to end a 
banking relationship with this period of notice but information about its banking  criteria was 
confidential and so it was unable to provide  any more detail than this. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  She said 
that Barclayss terms and conditions said that it could close  an account by giving at least two 
months notice. She said Miss A and Mrs A had access to the money in the accounts 
through this time and had a reasonable amount of time to arrange banking  facilities  
elsewhere. She said the criteria Barclays used in its review was confidential and it had the 
right to make a commercial  decision  about who it offers its services to.
Miss A and Mrs A didnt accept the adjudicators  findings and asked for their complaint to be 
reviewed.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that it will have been concerning and upsetting  for Miss A and Mrs A to 
learn that Barclays would  no longer be offering them banking facilities,  and that they then 
wouldve needed to apply for and open  accounts  elsewhere. 
However, Barclayss terms and conditions say that it can close  an account (and stop 
providing any services and end this agreement)  by giving you at least  two months notice. 
Any benefit  or services  linked to your account will stop at the same time.
Ref: DRN86771232Although I can fully appreciate why Miss A and Mrs A want  Barclays to give more specific 
reasoning behind its decision to no longer offer them joint banking facilities, I dont  think it 
should be required to provide them with any more of a detailed explanation about  what  it 
took into account as part of its consideration. The adjudicator has described  this as being  a 
matter of Barclayss commercial discretion, and it has followed the terms and conditions with 
giving a notice  period  before the closure of the accounts. 
Miss A and Mrs A had access to their accounts and money through  the notice period and I 
can see that they were  able to make arrangements to switch  their account to another bank 
before the account with Barclays were closed.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A and Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8677123