K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs A was sold the policy when she took out a loan in 1999.  To pay for her PPI, it was 
added onto Mrs As loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single  premium  policy.  The PPI 
covered Mrs As loan repayments in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Having done that, I dont  think  Mrs As PPI policy was mis-sold  here  Ill explain why.
Because the sale was so long ago, neither  side have the original documents.  But Lloyds 
have given us a sample copy of the credit  agreement  Mrs A wouldve used at the time.  From  
that, it looks like the PPI wouldve been described as optional and Mrs A wouldve been 
given the choice to take it out or turn it down. Then in order to get the policy, she wouldve 
had to actively choose it. So I think its most likely  that Lloyds made Mrs A aware  she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs A, so they had to check it was right for her. And based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For example, Mrs A wasnt  
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. And she doesnt  seem to have 
had any other cover  if she was off sick or lost her job, aside from the very limited statutory 
benefits. Mrs A may or may not have  had savings, though she couldnt remember how much  
they mightve been or whether they were available at the time. And the PPI meant  she could 
protect her savings and use them for other things.
I understand Mrs As partner may have  been willing to help, but circumstances  change  and 
there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed.  Further,  this loan was 
Mrs As sole responsibility, and I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Lloyds to have 
recommended she rely on someone else to pay it. Whereas the PPI meant Mrs A wouldnt 
have to ask her partner  to pay her loan. I also understand Mrs A felt it was unlikely shed be 
off sick or lose her job, but those were always real possibilities that could  happen to anyone.  
And thats what insurance is generally  there for: to cover you in case  bad things happen, 
even if theyre unlikely. Its not usually there  to cover things that will definitely happen. 
Overall, I think the PPI couldve been useful for Mrs A in case she fell on difficult  times.
Ref: DRN82166492Mrs A wouldve  got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy  
early. But I havent  seen anything to suggest she thought shed repay the loan early  when 
she first took it out. For instance, the loan wasnt set up to run for a particularly long time, 
and it doesnt  look like Mrs A had a history  of refinancing her loans early  at that point. So 
I think the policy was still probably right for Mrs A, and I dont  think better information about 
the cancellation terms wouldve stopped her from buying it.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. But as I explained  above,  it doesnt look like Mrs A was affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for her in case something  
went wrong. And given  how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mrs A made a 
successful claim  she couldve  got back quite a bit more than she paid for it. So overall,  
I dont think that better information about  the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8216649