K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund him around £80 
for a card transaction  he didnt make.  He was also concerned about being  able to use his 
online banking service  and his credit card being declined when overseas.
background
Mr K complained to Halifax  after he noticed  hed been debited £76.93 (and foreign exchange  
fees). Halifax dealt with this under  the chargeback scheme and told the merchant Mr K didnt 
recognise the transaction. They credited Mr K with the money. It was a charge from a hotel. 
Mr K knew  hed not stayed there or used any facilities as hed been staying elsewhere at the 
time. At the time Halifax warned Mr K theyd re-debit him if the chargeback proved to be 
unsuccessful. Halifax then felt they got enough  information to show  Mr K had entered into a 
contract with the hotel  for a booking. The money hed paid was the cancellation fee. Halifax  
debited Mr K £76.96  on 21 December 2017.
Mr K was unhappy at Halifaxs conclusion. He was in regular email  contact with their debit 
card team but they wouldnt  change the outcome. He was disappointed  that they didnt 
provide him with a final response giving  him a right to bring his complaint to our service.
Mr K travels  a lot and had also had trouble using his credit  card overseas where itd been 
declined a few times.  Halifax confirmed theyd  never  received even an authorisation request 
for any of these transactions so felt this was a problem at the retailer  end. Mr K was also 
having difficulty logging  onto his online banking service. Halifax said their data showed Mr K 
was entering the incorrect memorable  information so would need  to contact them  to sort this 
out.
Mr K was unhappy with Halifaxs responses. He also felt hed had to spend quite a time to 
sort out issues hed had. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
After reviewing the evidence and trying  to contact the booking service Mr K used, our 
investigator felt that Mr K hadnt  authorised the transaction. He asked  Halifax to repay the 
money theyd re-debited and pay Mr K £100  for the inconvenience caused.
Halifax disagreed  with this outcome. They felt Mr K  in using the booking service   hadnt 
been aware of the cancellation fee hed have to pay. They felt therefore  hed authorised  the 
transaction. They asked an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. My reasoning is a slight amendment on what  our investigator 
said but as I havent considered any new evidence I dont think theres a need  for a 
provisional decision. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
Ref: DRN86052872consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transaction, as well 
as what both Halifax and Mr K have told us. 
I think the following  issues are relevant to how Ive considered this complaint:
Theres two parts to whether a payment  is authorised. This involves both 
authentication and consent.
Theres no dispute the hotel debiting Mr K had all of his card details so authentication  
was conducted  properly.
I agree  with Halifax that its unlikely Mr Ks card details  magically  transferred from the 
hotel he was booking  to another without him having  had some  involvement. 
Particularly as hed used his credit card to pay for the hotel he stayed in.
But just because Mr K used his credit  card for payment of the hotel he stayed in, that 
doesnt automatically mean he used that for the booking.  Id be surprised  if he was 
looking to book  a hotel and using two different  cards to do so at roughly the same 
time. I could be wrong however  as we all do things  differently and these hotels  could 
have been selected  at different times.
Mr K accepts  he was using a booking site. This site does charge cancellation fees 
(payable to the hotels) in certain circumstances. Although our investigator tried to get 
more information  from them,  this proved unsuccessful. 
But two things could  have happened. Mr K did cancel and the hotel is saying 
otherwise or he felt he didnt  need to cancel as there was no cancellation fee 
payable. That would  make the fee he was charged unauthorised in both 
circumstances.
I know Halifax no longer has some information they got during the chargeback 
process but I dont  think its the lack of that information that proves key in my 
decision.
Its the lack of clear  information about  the specific cancellation  policy applying to this 
booking and any charge thats  made  me pause for thought.
From  what I know about Mr K, he seems  highly organised. He doesnt really strike 
me as the type that wouldnt cancel  a hotel when he knew he had to. Halifax  will be 
able to tell that from their correspondence history  with him.
Having taken all the issues into consideration I dont think Mr K authorised  this transaction. 
As this was contracted  at a distance,  Halifax will need to refund him £76.96.  Ill also be 
asking them to add 8% simple interest to that amount.
Halifax scoffed at the idea that because this was a low-value  transaction they could have  
dealt with this quicker.  I agree sometimes its worth standing  on our principles. But I dont 
think our investigator was being  unreasonable when he highlighted that Halifax  had made  a 
bit of a meal of this. I agree  that £100 compensation to Mr K is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I note the other issues Mr K highlighted when first bringing his complaint to us in August 
2018 are no longer the subject of the complaint. Im sorry Mr K has had to wait so long for us 
to resolve his complaint but this is because of the number of similar cases were dealing 
with.
Ref: DRN86052873my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Halifax, to:
Refund Mr K £76.96  for the transaction he didnt authorise; 
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 21 December  2017 until the date of 
settlement; and
Pay Mr K £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8605287