K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt contact her when it blocked a payment. 
As a result she lost the protection of the chargeback scheme.
background
Miss W tried to use her Bank of Scotland debit card for a point of sale payment. She needed 
to pay just over £1800 to a bathroom company. But the transaction was declined.  The 
bathroom company  said there was a problem  with the payment system.  So she paid by bank 
transfer using  the faster  payment method. She only realised there was a problem  with her 
card when another transaction was declined two days later.  
Shortly afterwards Miss W discovered the bathroom company had gone into liquidation. 
Because she hadnt been able to use her debit card she wasnt covered by any guarantee. 
When she spoke to Bank of Scotland she was initially told she could recover  her payment. 
But after a long call she was then told that wasnt the case.
Miss W accepted itd been  her choice to make  the bank transfer. But she says the bank 
shouldve sent her a text to say itd blocked  the payment  because  of fraud concerns. If it had 
she couldve  called the bank to say it was okay. Miss W has lost the money she paid to the 
bathroom company.  And she wants Bank  of Scotland to compensate her for her loss.
Bank of Scotland said Miss Ws payment had been  referred for a security check. It was for a 
large amount outside of her normal  spending pattern. The bank said its fraud team  doesnt  
always send a text alert to the customers phone. But if Miss W had called  the bank when 
the payment had been declined it couldve removed the block and allowed  it to go through.
The bank said Miss W paid the company using a faster payment. And it wasnt able to 
recover the money. Bank of Scotland apologised if shed been  given  the wrong information. 
And it arranged a payment of £100 as an apology together with £23 to cover the cost of her 
telephone calls.
Miss W wasnt satisfied  with Bank  of Scotlands  response. So she contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She understood how upsetting  this had been  for 
Miss W. But Bank of Scotland had confirmed it doesnt  always send a text alert for 
suspicious transactions. And there  was nothing  in the terms and conditions of the account to 
say it would. 
She felt Miss W couldve contacted the bank when  her transaction was declined. And she 
couldnt hold it responsible for the choice to use a different payment method. But she agreed 
Miss W had been given misleading  information about recovering her payment. And she felt 
the banks offer of £123 was fair in the circumstances.
Miss W didnt agree.  So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN87692602I can see how upsetting  this has been  for Miss W. She paid a lot of money  to a company for 
something she hasnt  received. And because her debit card payment was stopped  by Bank 
of Scotland she used  a different payment method  which  means she cant recover her 
money. So Ive looked  carefully  at everything thats happened to see if the bank has done 
anything wrong. And if so what  it needs to do to put things right.
When Miss W tried to make the payment  for just over £1800 to the bathroom company it was 
declined. But Miss W didnt know why. And I understand the sales  adviser suggested she 
make a bank transfer instead. When she spoke to Bank of Scotland  a few days  later she 
discovered the bank  had blocked her initial payment due to fraud concerns. 
Unfortunately the bathroom company has now gone into liquidation and Miss W hasnt 
received her goods.  When she spoke again to Bank  of Scotland she was initially told she 
should be able to recover her payment. But she was then told that wasnt possible. 
I cant say Bank of Scotland did anything wrong when it blocked Miss Ws payment. It felt the 
amount was outside of her usual pattern of behaviour. So it placed a stop on the transaction  
in case there  was any fraudulent activity. I know Miss W feels  Bank of Scotland shouldve  
texted her. But the bank has confirmed it doesnt  always text customers  when it stops  a 
transaction. And Miss W couldve called the bank  to see what the problem was.
I know she was told by the sales adviser that the problem  was probably with their payment 
system. And she was advised to make  a bank transfer instead. But I cant  hold Bank of 
Scotland responsible for Miss Ws decision to follow the bathroom  companys advice rather  
than checking  with her bank  first. That wouldnt be fair.
Miss W feels  she wouldve been protected  from the bathroom companys liquidation if shed 
been able to make the debit card payment rather than the bank transfer. But its important to 
realise theres no guarantee of success when  a chargeback is raised.  Its likely the 
chargeback scheme  wouldve contacted the companys administrators to try and recover  her 
payment. And its not possible to guarantee the success of any chargeback request.
I can see our investigator has given Miss W details on taking her claim forward with the 
administrators of the bathroom company. And I do sympathise with the financial pressure 
this has caused  and the distress Miss W has been  through. I appreciate  its a large  sum of 
money to have paid for something  she didnt  receive. Unfortunately  a faster payment is 
treated in a similar way to cash. And its not possible to recover  the money. Ive listened  to 
the calls between Miss W and Bank  of Scotland. And the bank  has apologised for initially 
giving her the wrong information about getting  her money back.
I know Miss W will be disappointed with this outcome.  But based on everything Ive seen I 
cant really hold Bank of Scotland  responsible for her loss. It acted to prevent Miss W from 
possible fraud. And Ive not seen anything to confirm Bank  of Scotland shouldve  texted 
Miss W at that point to explain what was happening. 
Rather than call the bank  when  her payment was declined Miss W was persuaded by the 
bathroom company  to make a bank transfer instead.  So I cant ask Bank  of Scotland to 
repay Miss W for the money she subsequently  lost when the company  went  into 
administration.
Ref: DRN87692603Bank of Scotland has apologised for giving Miss W the wrong information about recovering  
her payment. And its offered £100  compensation and a further  £23 to cover the costs of her 
calls. 
I think thats the right response in the circumstances.  And I wont be asking the bank to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8769260