K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Miss S says Leeds  Building Society (LBS)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in November 2018.  I explained  why I didnt think the PPI 
was mis-sold. And why LBS has to pay back to Miss S any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
An extract  of that provisional decision is set out below:
Miss S and LBS agree  that the PPI was sold to her over the telephone.
Miss S says she thinks  that she was told that she needed to take the PPI to get the 
mortgage.
I havent got a call recording or script  to show me what Miss S mightve been told about the 
PPI over the phone. But LBS says Miss S was sent a mortgage application which included 
the PPI section to complete and return. 
LBS has sent us a copy of Miss Ss mortgage application form. Within this theres the 
heading Protecting Your Payments  Mortgage Payment Protection (Free cover  for 6 
months on all new mortgages). There is a brief description of what  the PPI was for and the 
instruction to complete Section A, B or C below.
Section A was to be completed  if PPI was wanted.  Section B was to be filled in if the 
customer had already made alternative  arrangements to protect their mortgage.  And Section 
C was to be signed if the customer did not want their mortgage payments to be protected.
On Miss Ss form,  section  A has been completed  to show  that Miss S wanted accident,  
sickness and unemployment cover along with the monthly benefit she required.  And Miss S 
has signed this section of the form.
LBS has also sent us a copy of Miss Ss mortgage  offer. Theres  no mention of PPI being a 
condition of the mortgage. And it includes the wording you have chosen to take out 
Mortgage Payment  Protection Insurance.
So I think its likely LBS made it clear that Miss S didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
LBS recommended the PPI to Miss S so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information LBS gave  Miss S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ref: DRN82566542Which means LBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But LBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because:  
LBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Miss S about that. Because LBS didnt tell Miss S, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, LBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Miss S has said - including what shes said about  LBS not 
making her aware that her PPI benefit  would end when her hours increased to above 16 
hours per week, following a claim for sickness benefit. 
The PPI policy was designed to protect  the policyholders mortgage repayments  in case  of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.  Most people would assume  that this meant  they 
wouldnt be able to claim and be working at the same time.  This means  that that the terms 
regarding the benefit ending once  the policyholder had returned to work wouldnt be 
considered to be significant or unusual. And LBS wouldnt have had an obligation to draw  
them to Miss Ss attention when it sold the policy to her. So this point doesnt change  my 
decision.
Ive also looked  into Miss Ss query  about  how LBS has worked out its commission offer. 
Miss S has queried why only some of the years she had the policy  for have been considered 
in LBSs assessment. LBS only needs  to pay commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. For some of the time the policy was in place, LBSs  
commission and profit share was below 50% of the premium so it hasnt included  that time in 
its calculation. And it also hasnt included the periods of time where Miss S didnt pay a PPI 
premium. Although Miss Ss policy started in October 2004, it was free for the first six 
months so she wouldnt  have started paying  premiums until 2005.  And she also wouldnt 
have paid any premiums  for the time she was claiming benefit  from the policy in 2008.  So, 
from what Ive seen,  LBS appears  to have calculated the commission  offer correctly. 
I set out what LBS needed to do.
responses to my provisional  decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further  information  
before I reached a final decision.
Miss S didnt respond  to my provisional  decision. LBS said told us it didnt have any further 
comments or information to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ss case.
Ref: DRN82566543As neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
LBS has to pay back  to Miss S any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. LBS should  also pay back to Miss S any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
LBS should pay back to Miss S the extra she paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. LBS should also pay Miss S 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss S can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building  Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Miss S any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
I understand that Leeds Building Society has already  sent a cheque to Miss S for this. If  
Miss S hasnt cashed this and it can no longer be cashed, Leeds  Building Society  should  
send Miss S a replacement cheque.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8256654