K822xcomplaint
Mrs F complains that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (trading as Very)  charged 
interest to her account for items on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) promotion. Shes also 
unhappy about the customer  service  she received.
background 
In November 2016 Mrs F opened  a Very credit account online.
In June 2017 Mrs F used  her account  to place  an order  on a BNPL promotion due to end on 
2 July 2018.
Mrs F didnt  pay the full cash price of the items before the end of the BNPL promotion.  Her 
account was charged  with interest of £103.38.
Mrs F is unhappy  that shes been  charged BNPL interest. She says she set up a direct debit 
on the account to pay for the items during the promotion period. She complained to Shop 
Direct.
In its response Shop  Direct told Mrs F that although  shed set up a direct  debit, these 
payments were for the minimum  payments due on her running account.  Her running account 
contained items which and been  ordered on standard (non BNPL) terms. Shop Direct told 
Mrs F that any payments  towards BNPL items needed to be made in addition to the 
minimum payments request on her monthly  statements.
Mrs F wasnt happy with Shop Directs response so she complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Mrs F had received online statements 
every month which reminded her there were outstanding BNPL items. He said the June 
2018 statement  warned Mrs F of the amount of BNPL interest which  would be charged if she 
didnt pay the cash price of the BNPL items  before 2 July 2018.
Mrs F didnt  agree. She said the information  on the statements was in small print and not 
easy to find.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be helpful if I explain how BNPL works. BNPL is not interest free. Its an interest 
bearing offer with the option to avoid paying  interest  if the full cash price is paid before the 
specified date.  If the full cash price isnt paid before the end of the BNPL period, deferred 
interest calculated from the date of purchase  will be applied.
With this in mind, Ive focussed  on whether  I think Mrs F was given  adequate  information 
about how BNPL worked. Ive also considered whether she was given adequate  reminders  
prior to the BNPL expiry date.
Was adequate  BNPL information provided?
Ref: DRN87428412Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Fs account. These explain how a customer 
can avoid paying  interest on a BNPL promotion. They say:
You can avoid paying interest on any BNPL promotion if you choose to pay the full price  of 
the relevant transaction  and tell us you are doing so by calling 0844 xxx xxxx before the end 
of the deferred  period or go online via My Account and target a payment specifically to your 
BNPL transaction. The payment must  clear  the BNPL  transaction cash price  in full by the 
due date shown  on your statement.
In addition to the terms and conditions,  Shop Direct  has said the BNPL offer was clearly 
explained on the website when the order was placed.
I can see that Mrs F opened her account  online. The terms and conditions  are available to 
view online on the Very website. Mrs F would also have been  able to view her account  
online (including statements) and make BNPL payments online.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Shop Direct  appropriately advised Mrs F of the terms 
and conditions of the BNPL offer.
Ive looked at Mrs Fs statements and I can see she made monthly  payments of £28 towards  
her BNPL  items between August 2017 and November  2017. These payments reduced the 
balance of the BNPL items to £215.98.  No further  payments were made towards  BNPL  items 
after November 2017.
I appreciate that Mrs F had set up a direct  debit on her account. This was set up to make the 
minimum monthly payment due on her running  account (non BNPL items). Its clear  from the 
terms and conditions that customers are required to target payments to BNPL  items. I cant 
see that Mrs F did this after November 2017.  The direct debit payments were applied  to her 
running account and reduced  the balance on this account accordingly. 
Were adequate reminders sent?
I can see from the monthly statements which were sent to Mrs F online that these contained  
reminders that she had BNPL  items. I can also see that in June 2018 Mrs F received a 
reminder which expressly warned her of the estimated amount of interest (£103.28) which 
would be charged  to her account if she didnt pay the remaining cash price (£215.98)  by 2 
July 2018. Im satisfied  that this information  was clearly visible on the statements.
The cash  price of the BNPL items wasnt paid before 2 July 2018  so the account incurred 
deferred interest charges. This is in line with the terms and conditions  so Im unable to say 
that Shop Direct did anything wrong.
Customer service
Mrs F is unhappy  about the customer service she received when she contacted Shop Direct. 
Ive listened to the calls and I think the information  provided to Mrs F was clear. The advisor  
explained to Mrs F that her monthly  direct  debit payment only covered the minimum payment 
due on the running account. The advisor also told Mrs F that interest would remain  on her 
account. There appears to have  been  some confusion here. The advisor was talking  about  
BNPL interest. But Mrs F thought she was being charged interest even though  she thought 
Ref: DRN87428413shed paid the balance off. On balance I cant say the advice given  by Shop Direct was 
incorrect.
Shop Direct has offered  to pay compensation of £25 to Mrs F for any distress  and 
inconvenience caused by the delay in responding to her. I think  this is a fair offer and I wont  
be asking Shop Direct to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8742841