K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold them  the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs A bought a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage TMPP 
can be split into sections   Mortgage  Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover 
and critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs A have  complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the 
sale of the PPI cover only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Mr A was the only person covered by the PPI so I have mainly  considered  his circumstances 
at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs A aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs A have  told us they were  led to believe  the 
policy was compulsory. I dont know for certain what was said when the policy was sold, and 
there isnt much paperwork available, but from what we know about how Halifax sold this 
type of policy at the time I think its likely Halifax made Mr and Mrs A aware the PPI was 
optional, and they chose to take it out, although  I can understand why they may not 
remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr A chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for Mr and Mrs A if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr A off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs A have  said, including  that they werent told they 
could take PPI elsewhere. But Halifax werent responsible for telling Mr and Mrs A about 
policies available  from other providers, so these  points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs A paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs A back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs A now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN80807512my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8080751