K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Higos  Insurance Services Ltd failed to provide a car insurance 
policy which  insured  him for delivering takeaways. 
background
Mr S bought a car insurance policy  with a broker, Higos in 2013. He has renewed his policy  
through Higos each  year until December 2018. 
In November 2018 Higos discovered  that Mr Ss policy  didnt provide insurance  cover for his 
part time occupation as a delivery driver. So it wrote  to Mr S and explained that his insurer 
was happy to provide cover until the renewal date in December 2018  but it wouldnt 
provide cover for delivery driving. Higos said Mr S could either  continue  with the policy on 
this basis until renewal   or cancel  the policy. Higos told Mr S that it wasnt able to access  
the market to provide quotes for suitable  insurance  at renewal.
Mr S decided to continue with his policy  until renewal. But he complained to Higos. He was 
unhappy at finding out that he didnt have  appropriate cover for the past five years. He 
wanted Higos to compensate him for its error.
Higos upheld Mr Ss complaint as it couldnt  locate the original sales calls from previous 
years. It apologised to Mr S for the inconvenience it caused him. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us and reiterated  his request for compensation. 
Our investigator explained that we dont  award compensation for what  might have 
happened. We look at what went wrong  and whether  a consumer suffered a financial loss 
 or distress  and inconvenience as a result  of a businesss error. 
In this case, the investigator didnt feel Higos needed to do any more. 
Mr S didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
Sometimes a business makes mistakes. When things  go wrong, we look at the impact the 
mistake had on the customer. We look at what happened  and if the customer  should  be 
compensated for financial loss  or distress and inconvenience  caused by the businesss 
mistake. 
Sometimes we will find that an apology is enough to put things right.  I think  this is the case 
here. Fortunately there were no consequences as a result of Mr S not being fully insured  
while he was a delivery driver. And he wasnt aware  of a problem  to cause him distress 
and inconvenience   until November 2018   when Higos told him about the situation and 
provided him with options to put things right. 
Ref: DRN80461632So I think Higos apology for its mistake is enough  to resolve  Mr Ss complaint. I dont think 
Higos owes Mr S a compensation award.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8046163