K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs A applied for two credit cards in March  1996.  Lloyds cant  say when PPI was added to 
Mrs As account  but it wouldve  been  between 1996 and January 2000. 
Mrs A says she had very good sick pay as well as some savings and so didnt need the PPI. 
She says that if Lloyds  had made  it clear  the cover  was optional, she wouldve declined it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs As complaint didnt uphold  it. Mrs A disagrees  and so her 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Mrs A she had a choice  about PPI and get her agreement 
to it. Lloyds says its more likely than not it did this. But it hasnt got any paperwork or other  
records from the time to show  how it did so. And Mrs A doesnt remember much about  the 
sale. 
Where, as in this case, Ive got very little information  from the time of the sale (which isnt 
unusual or surprising when it was a long time ago),  I have to think  about whats most  likely to 
have happened, based on that information and also on what we know  about Lloyds usual 
process for selling PPI in this period. And Lloyds has shown us a sample  credit  card 
agreement where  its clear a consumer  would actively have had to choose  and agree  to the 
PPI. 
To uphold  Mrs As complaint on this point Id have to think  its more  likely than not Lloyds  
didnt make it clear to Mrs A she had a choice about  PPI. And the information  Ive got  
essentially, Mrs As testimony  isnt strong enough on its own and without anything else to 
back it up for me to think thats a fair and reasonable conclusion.  
On balance, looking at the limited information  Ive got, I think its more  likely  Mrs A agreed  to 
the PPI at time, knowing  she had a choice about  it, and thats the reason it was added  to her 
account.
Lloyds has treated the sale of Mrs As PPI as if it recommended it to her. So Lloyds needed  
to make sure it was right for her in her circumstances. From what  Ive seen of Lloyds PPI 
policies sold between 1996 and 2000,  and from the information Ive got from Mrs A about her 
circumstances around this time, I think it was. I say this because:
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mrs A wouldnt  have been eligible for the 
PPI. I also havent  seen anything to make  me think Mrs A wouldve been affected by 
any significant exclusions or limitations  the policy she bought  might have had  for 
Ref: DRN83775302example, for known  medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements. So I 
dont think its likely  there wouldve been  anything to stop her claiming the full policy 
benefit had she needed to.
Mrs A says she got very good sick pay and also had some savings. But I think the 
PPI could still have  given her a useful benefit if she couldnt  work, since it wouldve 
helped with her card repayments  for up to 12 months for each successful claim she 
made  which  is longer  than her full sick pay wouldve lasted. It would also have paid 
out on top of her sick pay and wouldve covered her in the same way if she lost her 
job.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mrs A couldnt afford the cover  or that its 
cost made it unsuitable for her.
As well as making sure it was right for her, Lloyds also had to give Mrs A enough clear 
information about the PPI for her to make an informed decision about  whether she wanted to 
buy it. I think its likely Lloyds didnt make some  things as clear as it shouldve  like the true 
cost and benefits of the policy and the things  it didnt cover.  But, as Ive said, I think its likely        
Mrs A agreed to the cover  knowing she had a choice about it and I havent  seen  anything  to 
make me think it wasnt right for her in her circumstances. I think clearer  information from 
Lloyds would only have  confirmed this to Mrs A and wouldnt  have  made her change  her 
decision. So I dont  think Mrs A has lost out because of anything  Lloyds did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8377530