K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the excess mileage  charges  applied to his account at the end of a 
finance agreement  he took out with FCE Bank Plc, trading as Ford Credit Europe (FCE).
background
Mr M took receipt of a new car in October  2015.  He financed the deal through a two year 
hire purchase agreement with FCE. 
Mr M says he told the sales representative who set up the agreement that it would be likely 
hed exceed the contractual mileage  and the sales representative told him that was okay and 
hed not be charged.
So he was surprised  to receive a bill from FCE who said that the agreement  had a mileage 
limit of 6,000  per year and as Mr M had completed more mileage thered be a charge of 
almost £600.
He complained to FCE. He said hed had three previous agreements with them  and had 
never been charged for excess mileage and he was also disappointed that theyd handed 
the debt over to a debt collection company. But FCE explained that the circumstances of this 
case were different as Mr M had part exchanged  the previous vehicles and in those 
circumstances excess mileage wasnt charged.  They said that here the terms of Mr Ms hire 
purchase agreement  explained the excess mileage charges that would be levied and they 
therefore didnt  think theyd done anything  wrong when making a charge. They went  on to 
explain that theyd  given Mr M ample  time to clear the debt and in those circumstances had 
no choice but to refer it to a debt collection company.
Mr M didnt  agree with FCE so he referred  his complaint to this service and our investigator 
provided an opinion.  He thought that on balance there was evidence to suggest Mr M hadnt  
been correctly  informed. He noted that Mr M had previous agreements  were charges hadnt 
been made and that his circumstances had changed  and that hed explained he now needed 
to regularly escort a disabled parent. He didnt think there was evidence the sales  
representative had considered this. He discussed  with the dealership how much it would 
have cost Mr M to increase the mileage  limit and he understood this would be no more  than 
£5 - £10 per month. He thought it reasonable that if Mr M had been  given  this option he 
would have been likely to take it rather than incur excess mileage  charges. So he thought  
FCE should charge  him no more than this and in the circumstances he thought a fair 
resolution would be for FCE to waive all charges as it was clear Mr M had been  
inconvenienced by the issue.
But FCE disagreed  with the adjudicator and they asked for an ombudsman to provide a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint FCE so please  let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN86658492Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the finance  agreement should not have 
been mis-sold to Mr M. So if I thought  Mr M was told something that was wrong and that led 
him into taking out an agreement  he would  not otherwise  have signed  up for, I would think  
FCE were responsible and Id ask them to take some  action.
I think on balance that there is sufficient  evidence to suggest that this agreement was 
misrepresented to Mr M. I think if it was properly explained to him he would have been likely 
to sign up for a higher annual mileage as the cost to do that was cheaper than to incur  
excess charges.
Im further persuaded that is likely  to have  been the case because  Mr M had never been 
charged excess mileage before at the end of his three previous agreements. I dont think  its 
fair to expect  him to know that FCE would treat a part exchange  differently. I think its 
reasonable to suggest the contract in each case would have stipulated the excess mileage 
charges and I can therefore  understand why Mr M would have assumed FCE would do as 
theyd previously done and waive any charges at the end of the agreement. I dont think its 
sufficient for FCE to rely on the signed contract to demonstrate Mr M was aware  the charges 
would be applied. I think its likely he knew they could be but I also think  its likely  hed been  
led to believe by FCEs previous actions that they would  not charge. And I cant see any 
additional attempt  had been made to explain why, on this occasion, FCEs approach would 
differ.
So I dont  think it would  be fair for FCE to charge the excess  mileage but that doesnt 
necessarily mean the charges should  be waived as Mr M has clearly  benefitted from being  
able to complete  more  mileage. However,  having considered  the case in its entirety Mr M 
has clearly been  inconvenienced by the misrepresentation and subsequent actions of the 
business to chase the debt. So I think in the circumstances the fairest  approach would be to 
waive the mileage  charge  in its entirety  in respect  of both the misrepresentation and some  
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I can see that Mr M is also upset that FCE transferred  the debt to a debt collection company. 
I dont think theres anything wrong with this approach so I dont think  FCE were  wrong  to do 
so. The terms of the finance  arrangement allows them to and says:
9 d) we may transfer our rights and obligations under this agreement  to someone else 
Ref: DRN86658493my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FCE Bank Plc to waive  the 
excess mileage charge and to remove any adverse  reports they may have made to Mr Ms 
credit file in relation to it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8665849