K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc, trading as Cahoot, have failed to return money  on a 
failed transaction  and have provided  poor customer service to him.
background
Mr J paid for goods, using  his Cahoot  credit card, from a company Ill call S in March  2018. 
But delivery was repeatedly  delayed so he made a claim to Cahoot under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section  75). He said, as the finance provider, they were jointly 
responsible for the matter. Cahoot refused his request for repayment under section 75 but 
they did submit a chargeback request. Mr Js money was returned  to his account  but when 
the retailer defended the claim it was debited again. Mr J says he wasnt  told this was going  
to happen.
Mr J also complains that Cahoot have provided poor customer service.  He says that the 
chargeback debit was made to his current account instead of his credit card account. And he 
also complains that Cahoot  called him to check a card transaction when they knew he had a 
disability that made  it difficult for him to talk.
Cahoot explained that for a section  75 claim to be successful there needed to be a relevant 
relationship between the debtor (Mr J), the creditor (Cahoot) and the supplier (S). But as 
Mr J had bought  the goods through a third party, who Ill call I, the relationship  had been  
broken and a claim couldnt be made.  They explained that they had tried to dispute the 
transaction through a chargeback request but they said Mr J hadnt responded to a letter  
theyd sent requesting further information on his claim. So whilst theyd initially  re-credited  
the money to his account they later had to debit it again.
They apologised for debiting the wrong  account and they paid Mr J £150 to compensate  him 
for the mistake theyd  made. They also paid him an additional £50 in recognition  of the 
inconvenience caused when they got some of their dates wrong in correspondence.
But Mr J was still dissatisfied with their response so he referred  his complaint to this service 
and our adjudicator  provided her opinion. She didnt think Cahoot had been unfair when 
refusing to process a section 75 claim as she agreed that the addition  of a third party  meant 
the necessary  debtor, creditor, supplier link was broken. She explained  that the chargeback  
process was administered by another company and Cahoot were not responsible  for the 
decision that was made.  She noted that Mr J disputed  receiving  the letter requesting  further 
information but she thought, on balance, it was most likely the letter had been sent to him. 
And as Cahoot  didnt  have the necessary information to dispute the claim she thought theyd 
been reasonable when  re-debiting Mr Js account.
She noted the mistake that Cahoot had made when debiting the wrong  account  but she 
thought the £150  compensation theyd paid Mr J was reasonable in the circumstances and 
she also noted that theyd apologised for calling him; identified  Mr Js disability on their 
system and paid him, what  she believed was a fair amount of £100, in recognition  of the 
distress and inconvenience their actions would  have caused.
But Mr J was still dissatisfied. He said the delay in processing the chargeback  had been 
caused by Cahoot and he was disappointed the adjudicator didnt seem  to have considered  
the disability discrimination hed experienced that he said denied  him due process. So he 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN85853222my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
section 75
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr J made  a claim through  them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there  must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. So if I was satisfied that Mr J did not get the service  hed paid S for Id think it 
fair and reasonable that Cahoot refund him.
But for the creditor, Cahoot in this case,  to have that liability it needs to have a relevant 
relationship with the supplier of the goods and here Cahoot argues that it hasnt,  as the 
payment was made to I and not S and I agree. So I dont think  Cahoot have been  
unreasonable.
Ref: DRN85853223chargeback
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes  are resolved between 
card issuers  and merchants, under the relevant  card scheme  rules.  
What this means here is that Cahoot can, in some circumstances, ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant.
But the chargeback process  doesnt give consumers legal rights  and it isnt guaranteed to 
result in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response  to the request the 
bank submits. 
And here Cahoot  didnt receive  a reply from Mr J in order  for them  to dispute the transaction  
so the refund was overturned by the card scheme administrator. Cahoot have no say in this 
decision. Its the card scheme administrator who decides.
Im persuaded that the letter from Cahoot requesting further  information  about the 
chargeback was sent to Mr J. Its clear hes received other  letters through  what appears to 
be the same  system and Ive not been informed about any change of address  that may have 
interfered with delivery.  
The letter explained that the chargeback had been disputed  by I who said they were not the 
service provider and it asked Mr J to submit further evidence. It said that if evidence wasnt 
received it would assume that Mr J no longer wished them  to investigate  his claim and his 
account would be debited.  But Cahoot didnt receive  a response to the letter and I dont think 
they were therefore  wrong to debit the payment.
Im also not persuaded Cahoot  have  delayed the process. Ive reviewed the timescales from 
the initial section  75 claim in early October to the request for further information to support 
the chargeback  on 1 November 2018.  That seems reasonable and I dont think  it would be 
fair to suggest Cahoot imposed unnecessary  delays.
service complaints 
Mr J complains that Cahoot called him despite knowing about his difficulty talking. They  
explained that this was in relation  to a disputed credit card transaction and they apologised 
for making  calls when they shouldnt have. Theyve  explained that theyve updated their 
records to minimise the chances of making this mistake again and have paid Mr J £100  to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I think thats sufficient in the circumstances and I dont think theres evidence  here that hes 
experienced disability discrimination thats  denied him due process. Cahoot have responded 
quickly; explained the alternative  means of communication and admitted their mistakes. Im 
persuaded their actions  have been  reasonable and sufficient in the circumstances.
With regard to Cahoot debiting the wrong  account.  I understand that this was over the 
Christmas period and must have  caused  some issues  for Mr J. But they paid him £150  to 
compensate him and I think, in the circumstances, this was sufficient.
So overall, I dont  think Cahoot need to take any further action  here.
Ref: DRN85853224my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8585322