K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S took out the PPI in September 2001  at the same time as she arranged the credit card 
in branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs S says there was no mention of PPI during the meeting  and she knew  nothing  about it, 
therefore it must have  been added to the credit card account without her knowledge or 
consent. The credit  card application  form has a separate section  for insurance. There is a 
pre-printed cross in the box to request PPI. From  what we know  of BoSs  sales processes  at 
the time,  I think there  would have been a discussion about PPI and that the cross would only 
have been entered in the box if Mrs S said that she wanted the policy. The relevant section 
of the application form also has the option to select another  insurance product,  but the box 
next to that has been left blank to decline  it. If, as Mrs S has said, the adviser automatically 
added the PPI to her account, I might have expected her to end up with all of the available 
insurance options.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Ss recollection  of the 
sale has faded. Ive thought very carefully about  what Mrs S has said,  but looking  at the 
evidence, I think it is more  likely that the optional nature  of the policy was explained. It 
seems to me that Mrs S probably  decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if 
she no longer remembers  doing so.
BoS advised Mrs S to buy the policy. Therefore in recommending the PPI to Mrs S it needed 
to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, 
it was suitable  for her.
Mrs S would have received some sick pay from her employer. But the policy would  have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mrs S would have received full pay 
for. Mrs S has said she had some  savings at the time. But having  the policy would have 
allowed her to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what  would have  been  a 
difficult time. 
BoS also needed to provide Mrs S with enough  information for her to make an informed 
choice about whether  or not the PPI was right for her. Its possible that BoS didnt provide as 
much information as it should have about  the policy, particularly about the things  that it didnt 
Ref: DRN85510312cover. But Mrs S wasnt affected  by any of those things. As I think that Mrs S had an interest 
in the PPI and decided  to buy it, I dont think that further information  would have caused her 
to change her mind.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mrs S paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already paid back 
to Mrs S some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8551031