K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Erudio Student  Loans Limited  (Erudio) gave him inaccurate  information 
about his previous student loan. He also complains  that they failed to notify the Student  
Loans Company  (SLC), that he had paid the outstanding  balance,  in good  time.  
background
Mr B wanted  to apply  for a new student  loan with SLC.  He was told he couldnt  do so until 
hed paid off his existing loan with Erudio. On 28 August 2018, Mr B along with his support 
worker, called Erudio  regarding his outstanding student loan balance  of £844.86. During this 
call, his support  worker was granted ongoing  authority to talk to Erudio on Mr Bs behalf. 
At the start of the call it was explained  by the support worker that Mr B was having trouble 
rationalising things. Mr B then shared  very sensitive information with the call handler 
regarding his personal circumstances, physical and mental health  - both presently and over 
the past few years. 
Mr B stated  that hed just returned to college and wondered if the outstanding balance could 
be added  to the new loan, he was in the process of applying for. This was ruled  out as an 
option by the call handler. They  advised  that it would  be better  for Mr B to have the 
outstanding balance written off, if possible,  on medical grounds. Mr B became overwhelmed 
and his support  worker took over the remainder  of the call. The support worker was told what 
would be needed,  in order for Mr Bs loan to be written off on medical grounds. 
As a result, a copy of Mr Bs doctors note was sent to Erudio on 7 September.  During a call 
on 10 September, Erudio  explained to Mr Bs support  worker,  that a medical write off for the 
outstanding balance would not be possible  based on the contents  of the doctors  note. They 
also explained that as Mr B was applying for another student loan, that suggested  it was 
likely that hed be trying  to work again  in the future, therefore making  him ineligible  for a 
medical write-off. In an attempt to seek a solution  for Mr B, his support worker called later 
that day to discuss  possible options.  It was reiterated that Mr B would  need  to repay the 
outstanding balance with Erudio, before SLC would consider additional funding. 
Mr B paid the full outstanding balance a few days later. As well as the wrong  information  
about the medical write-off, he was unhappy with the overall service hed received from 
Erudio. In summary this included:
not confirming  the outstanding balance had been received;
delays in notifying SLC that the outstanding balance had been cleared;
repeatedly calling him by his first name,  when hed asked not to be; 
not receiving call backs  or being  put through to a manager when asked; 
Erudio didnt write to him in 2014 to tell him they had taken over the debt from SLC;
Erudio had failed  to accept any repayment  plan offer hed made; and
he should have  been prevented from applying for a student  loan the previous year, if 
what Erudio were  now telling him about  needing  to repay  his balance was true. 
During some of these  calls Mr B became  abusive  to staff and this resulted in some of the 
calls being terminated.
In Erudios response to Mr Bs complaint, they apologised  for the overall poor service Mr B 
had received and offered £150 by way of compensation. But explained that they didnt 
Ref: DRN82962602uphold elements of his complaint. They said they wrote to Mr B in 2014 but the first contact  
they had from him was in 2018. They stated  the repayment plan option was only briefly  
discussed. It was soon ruled out, once it was established that in order  to obtain the new 
loan, the balance would need to be repaid in full. 
Mr B was unhappy with this and referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended a payment of £350 should be made to Mr B, for the distress 
caused by the poor customer service. Erudio did not agree with this. 
Mr B explained he was not happy  with this outcome.  He asked whether he should raise  a 
complaint against  SLC regarding his previous loan. Mr B said he wasnt  told SLC had 
decided that the previous loan had to be repaid before seeking any further  loans. He also 
said SLC couldnt  explain  why he wasnt offered a repayment plan by Erudio;  or the delay in 
releasing his new student loan. He pointed out that if Erudio  were  providing information to 
the contrary, SLC should perhaps  be contacted for their confirmation regarding  the 
repayment decision.
The parties could  not reach an agreement; therefore, this has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware  that during  the call on 28 August, the possibility of a repayment plan was 
discussed briefly. Having listened to the call, I cannot agree  that Erudio refused to accept a 
repayment plan proposal. The support worker explained that Mr B couldnt  get another loan 
from SLC until the previous loan had been  paid in full. The call handler confirmed this. When 
asked about a repayment plan, they explained that Erudio could put this in place. But theyd 
need to inform SLC that the debt was being  repaid in instalments, and it would be for SLC to 
decide if Mr B could get another loan, whilst the plan was in place.  
Mr B says SLC told him he would have secured the new loan, with a repayment  plan in place 
for the old loan. He could have explored  this further if this is what SLC told him, but the 
decision to repay the old loan in full was made instead. Mr B has asked if he should raise  a 
complaint against  SLC,  as he said he wasnt told hed need to repay the previous loan 
before getting  a new one. This final decision will not preclude him from complaining  to SLC,  
if he chooses to do so. 
With reference to the timeliness of Erudio notifying  SLC; I have considered the timeline and I 
am satisfied  that their actions did not impact  on when Mr B received the new loan. SLC were  
notified of the payment overnight  on Thursday 13 September, and their system was updated 
with this information on Monday 17 September. The new student loan was authorised on 
18 September; released on 19 September and reached Mr Bs account on 21 September. As 
a result,  I do not think any further consideration is needed here.
I have seen a copy of the notice of assignment letter  Erudio says it sent in April 2014.  I 
realise Mr B says he didnt receive the letter,  but it has Mr Bs correct  address. I therefore 
have no reason to think Erudio  didnt send it in 2014.   
Ref: DRN82962603It is clear that Mr B has been through a troubled  time, and I do not doubt that this situation  
has caused him much distress. I must consider what impact Erudios actions had. Mr B had 
several telephone conversations  with Erudio.  During  these calls Mr B grew  increasingly 
frustrated, angry and upset with the call handlers and managers he was speaking to. This 
was because they kept addressing him by his first name, and he was receiving conflicting 
information from them with reference  to: 
whether his balance could  be written  off on medical grounds;
how much his outstanding balance was for;
the timescale for notifying SLC that his balance  had been cleared; 
whether a manager was available to take his call; and
whether his account was accessible or locked  once the complaints team  were  
looking into his complaint.
In addition, Erudio  were aware  that Mr B was having trouble rationalising things.  Alongside 
the sensitive information Mr B had shared with them regarding his mental health and the 
impact this situation was having on him. I think for these reasons Erudio ought to have been  
aware Mr B was likely  to be vulnerable. 
Erudio has pointed out that Mr B chose to make  the calls to them,  even though his support 
worker had been granted ongoing authority to talk to them  on his behalf. And have 
suggested that any additional stress caused  to him, was therefore avoidable. I do 
understand Erudios position, and in deciding what I consider  to be fair compensation 
overall, Ive taken this into account as well as Mr Bs sometimes  abusive  telephone manner. 
This understandably wont have helped Erudio resolve his concerns  as easily  as it could 
have. 
The issue  here is that Mr B was provided with incorrect information and his vulnerable state 
meant this had a greater  impact on him. Consideration should  also be given,  to the role 
Erudio played  in Mr B thinking hed be able to obtain  further  finance,  despite an outstanding 
debt to SLC. Erudio  has explained that Mr B received the previous years  finance incorrectly. 
This didnt  help when Mr B was trying to make sense of the situation. The approach  taken in 
this instance,  unfortunately did not help matters and I am of the opinion  that a payment of 
£350 would  be a fair and reasonable outcome.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I have decided to partially uphold this complaint. I direct Erudio 
Student Loans  Limited to make a payment of £350 to Mr B, for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8296260