K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC after his account was 
targeted by fraudsters.   He would like to be compensated, have his credit  card balance and 
benefits restored  and a letter of apology.
background 
In 2018, Mr W was a victim of identity  theft.  His credit card had been diverted to another  
address and transactions carried out, his current account had been used by fraudster and 
his online  banking was suspended due to suspicious activity.
All disputed  transactions were refunded to Mr W and in its final response  sent in July 2018, 
Lloyds refunded any interest  he had accrued on his credit card as a result  of not being able 
to use his debit  card.  It also offered compensation of £180 with an acknowledgement that 
the service could have  been better   and it also offered to refund any expenses Mr W had 
incurred by having to visit a branch or make telephone calls.
Mr W wasnt happy with this outcome.  He  told this service he wanted more  compensation  
but did not quantify the amount.  He also wanted his credit card account benefits  to be 
restored to their previous  level and to be offered the same interest free incentive.   Finally, he 
wanted a written apology.
Our investigator thought Lloyds could have  done more.  He  thought  the compensation 
should be increased by another £120  to £400 in total.  But Mr W still didnt agree. He said 
he should be paid the extra interest he had incurred from 2018  until 2020.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   and having done  so, I arrive at the same  
conclusion as the investigator and for very much the same reasons.
If I can deal with the credit card account  first.  Mr W says his credit limit was reduced as a 
result of the fraud  on his account.   I cant  see anything to suggest that this was the case.  
The fraud investigation was completed  in July 2018  and the limit was reduced  in October 
2018.
Mr W further submits  that he has incurred interest  on his account between 2018 and 2020   
directly as a result of this fraud.  Im  afraid  I have  seen nothing to suggest that this is case.
Furthermore, its not a matter for this service to tell Lloyds how it should handle  its business 
with customers. So, for instance, it wouldnt be for me to tell Lloyds to offer Mr W an interest 
free incentive on his account.  If, however, it appeared that Lloyds had withdrawn its offers to 
Mr W unfairly, then I can award the appropriate  compensation  for the impact  this may have 
had on him.  But I havent  seen  anything  to suggest  that it has been unfair   so I wont be 
asking it does anymore  in that regards.
Ref: DRN82914632In relation to the written apology   I can only reiterate  the investigators  comments.   Lloyds 
did acknowledge in its final response  in July 2018  that it could have been better in how it had 
dealt with Mr Ws complaint. 
Finally, I understand  Mr Ws frustrations whilst having to sort out issues  with Lloyds.  None of 
this was his fault and it can be concerning to find out you have been  a victim of fraud.  But  
its not this services role to punish  Lloyds for that.  Our role is to look at whether Lloyds dealt 
with Mr Ws complaint fairly.
I agree  with the investigator  the service could  have  been better and Mr W had to make 
numerous calls and visits before he could be reassured he had not been targeted  by 
fraudsters a second time. But the total award  of £400 is not one I would increase on.  I think 
it is a fair and reasonable resolution  to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Lloyds Bank  PLC should pay Mr W another £120  (in addition to the £180  already offered) in 
full and final settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8291463