K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that the surveyor who valued their property on behalf of 
Barclays Bank UK PLC was negligent and missed  significant structural  defects in the 
property. They want Barclays to admit  the surveyor made a mistake  and to pay at least half 
the cost of putting right the defects,  which Mr and Mrs R say is about £50,000.
background
In December 2014, on the advice  of a mortgage  broker, Mr and Mrs R applied  for a loan with 
Barclays, through its residential lending division, Woolwich. They were borrowing £205,000, 
to be secured by way of a mortgage  against a property they were buying  for £275,000.
They paid £240 for a basic valuation,  which was carried  out on 10 December 2014.  This was 
a non-disclosed  valuation,  meaning that it was for Barclays purposes only.  A mortgage offer 
was issued in May 2015 and the purchase and mortgage completed on 1 June 2015.
Mr and Mrs R say that they noticed a mark on the ceiling when they moved in, but didnt 
think anything of this. About  a year later, when a roofer  had told Mr and Mrs R he thought  
there were problems with the loft conversion,  Mr and Mrs R engaged a structural  engineer.  
He found defects with the property which Mr and Mrs R say have  cost over £50,000 to put 
right.
Mr and Mrs R complained  to Barclays, saying that theyd been told by a solicitor and their 
structural engineer  that the surveyor should  have spotted the defects in the property. 
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint, saying that this was a basic  valuation, not a structural 
survey, and it had been carried out for Barclays own purposes.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs R complained to us. They say that theyve 
been told by one person at Barclays that the surveying firm is part of Barclays, and by 
another that it is not. Mr and Mrs R want Barclays to accept responsibility  and make  a 
significant contribution towards the repair costs.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  She explained 
that the surveyor, being independent, was separate from Barclays. She was also satisfied 
that Barclays was entitled  to rely on the professional  opinion  of a surveyor  qualified with the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) that the property was suitable security for 
the loan.
Mr and Mrs R asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They  say that they are out 
of pocket due to the surveyor not noticing something wrong with the property. Mr and Mrs R 
said that they thought the whole  point of having a survey carried out was so the surveyor  
could identify defects  in the property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Having done  so, I have some disappointing news for Mr 
and Mrs R; Im not upholding their complaint. These are my reasons.
First, I completely agree with Mr and Mrs R that the whole  point of having a survey carried  
out is so that the surveyor can identify any defects in the property. But the difficulty with this 
Ref: DRN81766612argument in this case is that Mr and Mrs R didnt have a survey carried out. Mr and Mrs R 
paid for only the most basic valuation, which was for Barclays lending purposes  only, not 
theirs. It wasnt a structural survey, it was a visual  inspection of the property.
The mortgage was applied for through  a broker. It was the brokers role to explain to Mr and 
Mrs R that a basic valuation was solely for Barclays  own use and that if Mr and Mrs R 
wanted a more detailed report, they would need to arrange their own inspection of the 
property. If this wasnt explained, then Mr and Mrs R will need  to take that up with their 
broker.
Barclays own documentation  which is provided at the application stage makes clear  that 
borrowers cannot rely on a mortgage  valuation  and that neither the surveyor  nor Barclays 
owes any responsibility to borrowers  arising from a basic valuation. All Barclays  is required 
to do is to ensure  it appoints a suitably-qualified surveyor  to carry out the inspection. In this 
case, Barclays did so, because I see from the report that the surveyor was a Member of 
RICS. The firm the surveyor works  for is not part of, nor connected to, Barclays.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Barclays isnt responsible for the defects in the 
property which Mr and Mrs R say they discovered a year after they moved in. I know this 
isnt the decision  they were  hoping for. I have  considerable  sympathy  for their situation, 
which I am sure has been very stressful for them.  But for the reasons given above, Barclays  
is not liable  for the cost of the repairs Mr and Mrs R have  had to carry out.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8176661