K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs D payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The sale of the PPI took place about  22 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs D have said the PPI was added without their knowledge  or permission. However  
it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened  unless there was reasonable supporting 
evidence of it. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires  that the person making  the allegation should present evidence  that 
this probably did happen.  It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
It would be more usual  for the PPI to have  been  mentioned in the documents  at the time, 
and for the insurer to write and confirm  that a policy  had been set up. I think its more likely 
this is what happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice, even if Mr and Mrs D dont 
now remember it. 
Mr and Mrs D have said they would  have made  a claim if theyd known about the PPI, as 
Mr D lost his job. I dont  know  the details of that, or when it happened (according to the 
banks records Mr and Mrs D only had the policy for eight months.) However, it still wouldnt 
be strong evidence  that Bank of Scotland didnt discuss  the PPI at the time of the PPI policy 
being sold, or get Mr and Mrs D to agree  to it. 
So, overall, without  stronger evidence I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mr and Mrs Ds consent. 
Ref: DRN83198362Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply.
Its likely  Bank of Scotland recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach  during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr and Mrs Ds particular circumstances. 
However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to significant  difficulties. And it 
looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what 
Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ds situation at the time:  
Its likely  Mr D (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr D received  any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have  put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs D would  need to fall back on any savings or other  means they may have 
had for paying  the mortgage  and other  living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs D in a more  secure position, if theyd eventually  lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some  things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr D would 
have been affected  by any of these
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation would have 
been suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs D took the PPI. I say this because the potential  benefits were 
greater than Mr Ds sick pay and savings.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have been  affected by any of these. 
I dont know whether Mr and Mrs D have asked Bank of Scotland  whether they can make  a 
backdated claim. I can see that, even if this is possible, it might  now be difficult  for them to 
get the evidence to support a claim.  However  they may want  to consider approaching  
Bank of Scotland to see whether there are steps they can take. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN83198363Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8319836