K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited (Sanlam)  failed  to follow  the 
regulators guidance when it offered  and paid redress in connection with the Free Standing  
Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan it mis-sold to him in 1991.
Mr H is represented in this complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC).
background to this complaint
In 2016, the CMC, on behalf of Mr H, complained to Sanlam that the FSAVC  plan it sold to 
him in 1991 was unsuitable because his employer  offered a better in-house option at the 
time.
In December 2016, Sanlam issued its final response upholding the complaint on the basis  
Mr H would have been better off contributing  to his employers in-house Past Added Years 
(PAY) scheme. The PAY option would have  enabled Mr H to enhance the defined benefit  
(DB) pension  he received at retirement  by increasing his pensionable service in the 
scheme. To put things right, Sanlam offered to make  good Mr Hs financial loss of 
£46,283.04 by crediting this figure to a new pension  plan in his name. In qualifying  its offer,  
Sanlam told the CMC:
The above offer has been calculated according  to guidelines set by the financial 
services regulator for the conduct of the FSAVC  review,  although  the investigation of 
your complaint has been dealt with outside  the terms  of that review, we have deemed 
that this method was appropriate  for your clients complaint.
Mr H accepted the offer. Sanlam paid the redress in January 2017.
Sanlams final response and implementation  of redress came  after the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA),  had announced in August 2016 its proposals for 
updating the methodology used to calculate the redress  due to consumers  who were given 
unsuitable advice  to transfer out of a DB pension scheme. It stated:
 
The Financial Conduct Authority is concerned that the methodology to calculate 
redress in cases of unsuitable advice on transfers  from defined benefit (DB) 
occupational pension schemes  to personal pensions is outdated. It intends  to consult 
in autumn 2016 to update  the methodology with a view to reaching a conclusion  by 
spring 2017. The FCA does not expect firms investigating complaints  on this issue  to 
settle complaints  on a full and final basis until the outcome of the consultation is 
known. Firms may wish to offer provisional redress and then provide a final response 
and any further  redress once the outcome of the consultation is known. 
The FCA then published its guidance consultation, GC17/1  Changes to the way firms 
calculate redress for unsuitable defined  benefit  transfers, inviting various stakeholders  to 
provide their views on its proposals.
In October  2017, the FCA published its the feedback received on GC17/1 and its finalised 
guidance FG17/9:  Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress  for unsuitable defined 
benefit transfers.  
Ref: DRN80885232In reference to mis-sold  FSAVC plans, the feedback  received on GC17/1 stated: 
Many respondents  stated  that the revised  methodology  may be used for opt-out, 
non-joiner, and FSAVC  cases. Following this, we have decided that firms may 
choose to use the revised methodology as a base  for calculating  redress  for these 
cases. The firms must  consider the extent to which this is appropriate. This is subject 
to the particular circumstances of the case.  In doing  so, firms  should  consider at the 
outset if any adjustments  need to be made to ensure the consumer receives  the 
appropriate level of redress. 
We understand that one concern relating  to methodology for these cases  is the future 
earnings growth assumption. This was last set at RPI +2%. In cases of actual loss, 
firms may use actual  information about  marital  status and spousal age difference. 
This will enable the redress  to take account of the consumers circumstances where 
this is known.
And at paragraph 10, the finalised  guidance FG17/9 stated:
Where a respondent upholds a complaint concerning a non-joiner, opt-out or FSAVC  
case, the respondent may use this guidance  as a basis  for calculating appropriate 
redress, to the extent that it is appropriate to do so and subject to the particular 
circumstances of the case.
Based on the FCAs finalised  guidance FG17/9, the CMC asked Sanlam  to calculate if 
additional redress is due to Mr H based  on the updated methodology. In response,  Sanlam 
told the CMC:
Having taken into consideration the FCA guidance  FG17/9  following the redress  
payment made to your client, we are satisfied that the redress  paid was appropriate 
and no further  redress is due. Therefore, the redress previously accepted  in regards 
to this mis-sold pension  can be deemed  as being in full and final settlement.
The CMC didnt accept  Sanlams position  and so referred the matter to us.
Our adjudicator thought Sanlam had treated  Mr H unfairly and upheld  this complaint. In our 
adjudicators view, the FCAs  announcement in August 2016 applied to consumers mis-sold 
FSAVC plans and made  clear that any redress paid after that date should have been on an 
interim basis only until such time as the FCA was able to publish its finalised guidance. To 
put things right, our adjudicator recommended that Sanlam recalculate  the redress figure 
using the FCAs  updated methodology and, if this showed a greater loss than the £46,283.04  
already paid, to make  a further payment to Mr H. Our adjudicator also recommended  that 
Sanlam pay Mr H £300 compensation  for the trouble  and upset caused by its refusal  to 
recalculate the redress figure.
Sanlam didnt accept  our adjudicators recommendations  and requested that this complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman. Sanlam didnt provide  a reason why it disagreed with our 
adjudicators view or additional evidence  for my consideration.
Ref: DRN80885233my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In deciding  whats fair and reasonable, I 
take account of relevant law, regulation, guidance and what  I consider to be good industry 
practice.
Its not in dispute  that the FSAVC plan at the centre  of this complaint was mis-sold to Mr H. 
Sanlam previously accepted this when  it concluded  that Mr H would have been better off 
contributing to his employers  in-house  PAY scheme. Whats in dispute  is the basis  upon 
which Mr H should be compensated. My role is to decide whether Sanlams previous redress 
payment of £46,283.04 is sufficient or if it needs  to do anything  further.  
Sanlam is satisfied the compensation its already paid to Mr H is appropriate and that it 
doesnt need to revisit  his case. I dont share  Sanlams view. Let me explain why.
Having considered the information published  by the FCA, as referenced in the background 
above, its clear to me that the scope of the FCAs consultation included  consumers who 
were mis-sold a FSAVC  plan instead  of contributing  to their employers in-house PAY 
scheme. And that businesses considering these types of complaints after August 2016, as 
Sanlam were in Mr Hs case, should  have explained final responses  couldnt be provided  
until the consultation was complete. The FCA made clear that during the interim period it 
expected businesses to deal fairly with affected consumers. It was suggested that this might  
involve making an interim  redress payment based on the previous methodology, alongside 
an undertaking to update the calculation once the outcome  of the consultation was known.
But in Mr Hs case, Sanlam didnt do this. Instead it issued a final response letter and settled 
redress on a full and final basis  in January 2017  during the FCAs consultation period. The 
redress figure of £42,283.04 was calculated using the now obsolete methodology that 
existed before August 2016.  I think Sanlams  handling of Mr Hs case  was wrong, bearing in 
mind the FCAs expectations. So Ive concluded  that Sanlam treated Mr H unfairly.
The FCAs use of the word may in its guidance  material might explain Sanlams reluctance  
to revisit Mr Hs case. If thats  the reason then I think its unfair. I say this because  its clear 
to me that the FCAs intention for updating  the redress  methodology was to ensure affected  
consumers receive the appropriate level of redress. In the particular circumstances  of this 
complaint, I cannot  see any compelling  reason why Sanlam shouldnt revisit  Mr Hs case  to 
establish if a further redress payment is due to ensure he is placed, as close  as possible,  
into the correct financial  position based on the latest methodology.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account,  I find that the redress payment Sanlam made to Mr H in                    
January 2017  should be treated  as an interim payment only.  To put things right,  I direct 
Sanlam to recalculate the redress figure  using the updated guidance and methodology 
published by the FCA in October 2017 to establish if a further payment is due to Mr H. 
Any additional redress  should, if possible,  be paid into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The redress shouldnt  be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN80885234If a payment  into the pension plan isnt possible or has protection or allowance  implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. Of the loss identified,  25% 
would be tax-free  and 75% would likely  have  been taxed according to his income tax rate in 
retirement  which  I have decided should be presumed to be 20% for the purposes  of 
calculating redress. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately 
reflects this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited  to recalculate the 
redress figure due to Mr H as set out above. Details of the FSAVC  redress  calculation  must 
be provided to the CMC  in a clear,  simple format. 
In addition, I direct Sanlam to pay Mr H £300  compensation  for the trouble and upset  that 
hes suffered, as recommended by our adjudicator.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8088523