K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that Nationwide Building  Society  moved money between his savings  and 
current accounts without  his authority. He also believes interest has been  incorrectly 
calculated for his savings  account.
background
In January 2018, £76,000 was transferred from Mr Zs Loyalty Saver  account to his FlexPlus  
account. A few days later £78,400 was transferred back  to his Loyalty Saver  account from 
his FlexPlus account.
Mr Z said he didnt  make  the transfers and was concerned it was fraudulent activity. He 
complained to Nationwide who investigated  his complaint and didnt uphold his concerns. 
Nationwide said the FlexPlus account  was closed  shortly after the transactions  and there  
was no detrimental  loss to Mr Z. And because Mr Z had asked for his Internet Banking to be 
disabled, they would  be unable to dispute  the transactions and wouldnt refund any interest 
Mr Z had lost.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr Z brought his complaint to this service. He also said that 
after the transfers happened, the rate of interest he was earning reduced from 3% to 1%. He 
thought Nationwide had intentionally made  the transfers as a way to reduce the rate of 
interest he was earning.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in February  2020 where I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint. I will now explain why.
the transfers
Mr Z understandably wants to know how the transfers occurred  and whether  Nationwide  
were responsible for making the transfers.
Nationwide have provided us with an audit  log of Mr Zs savings account for January which 
shows they didnt  access Mr Zs accounts  on the dates the transactions  in question took 
place. If they had made the transfer,  then there would be an electronic footprint left on their 
systems. I havent seen  any footprint from the dates of the transfers  so Im unable  to 
conclude they were responsible. So, Im satisfied that the activity on Mr Zs account wasnt  
the result  of Nationwide  accessing Mr Zs accounts. 
However, Nationwide have a responsibility  to only act on Mr Zs authority and not someone 
elses. The evidence provided  by Nationwide shows the transactions  were  made  through  a 
mobile banking  app using Mr Zs credentials.  And it also shows  the app was accessed  using  
the Touch ID feature.
I think the use of the Touch ID feature means  its most  likely  that Mr Zs fingerprint was used 
to access the app at the time the transfers  to and from the current account were made. I also 
dont think the transfer of the money  back to the savings account is indicative of fraudulent  
activity.
Ref: DRN86283112The current  account  was then closed the day after the money was transferred back. And the 
residual balance was paid out in cash which indicates it was done  in the branch. Mr Z didnt 
make a complaint  about the transfers  until the following year.  So, I also have to account for 
the passage of time and how this may have affected Mr Zs recollection of events. 
Mr Z has said he didnt  make any of the transactions on the mobile app and none of the IP 
addresses on the audit  log belong to him. Ive thought about what  hes said,  but having  
considered all the evidence, I think its more likely than not that Mr Z made  the transactions.
Because of this, I think its reasonable for Nationwide  to conclude that Mr Z authorised the 
transfer.
the interest rate
Mr Z believes the interest rate applied to his Loyalty Saver account is incorrect. Hes said he 
was told by the branch manager  that the account was guaranteed  to earn an interest rate of 
1% above  their current interest rate. Im not disputing  Mr Zs recollection of events, but for 
me to make an award,  I have to see that Nationwide have made an error.
Ive reviewed the Key Product Information  and Terms and Conditions  of the savings account. 
They say the interest  rate payable on the account is variable and is determined by the 
number of years the account holder has been  a continuous member of Nationwide.  So, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide had the authority  to vary the interest rate on the account.
The Terms and Conditions also say if Nationwide reduce the interest rate and there is more 
than £100 in the account, they will send a personal  notification to the account holder at least  
14 days before they make  the change. The account  holder  then has 30 days  from the date of 
notification, to tell Nationwide if they want to close their account  or switch to a different 
account. If they do not hear from the account holder, they will take it that the change in 
interest has been accepted.
Ive asked Nationwide for copies  of the letters they would have sent to Mr Z notifying  him of 
any changes to the rate of interest  on his savings account. However,  theyve been  unable to 
provide any copies. But they have  confirmed that the letters would  have been  sent.  And they 
have provided  copies of annual statements sent to Mr Z showing the rate of interest on the 
account. So, on balance,  Im satisfied that Mr Z was made aware  of the interest rate on his 
account.
I havent seen  anything to suggest the account is guaranteed  to earn a certain rate of 
interest. As Ive previously said, the rate of interest is determined by the number of years the 
account holder  has been  a continuous  member  of Nationwide. Nationwide  have provided me 
with details of the applicable interest rate for the savings account each year. 
From what  Ive seen, the interest rate decreased between  2012-2017 and then increased  
slightly from the end of 2017-2019. But Nationwide were allowed to make changes to the 
interest rate, so I cant see that theyve  done  anything wrong.
Mr Z is also concerned that the interest  paid on his loyalty saver account  is incorrect. Hes 
pointed to the difference in interest he received in 2017/18 and 2018/19.  Ive checked the 
interest rate that applied to the loyalty saver account  at this time and the amount of interest  
he was paid. For both years an interest rate of 1% gross per annum was applied to the 
account.
Ref: DRN86283113In 2017 the account had a balance of around £2,860 between January and the end of June. 
Then at the start of July around £72,800  was paid in, so the account  had a balance of 
around £75,700 between July and December.
In 2018 the account had a balance of around £78,400 for most of the year. Interest is 
calculated daily, so because Mr Z had a higher balance for a longer  period of time, he 
received more interest than he did in 2017.
So it looks  as if the correct rate has been applied to Mr Zs account and the correct amount 
of interest paid so I cant fairly tell Nationwide to pay Mr Z any more interest. I cant see that 
Nationwide has made a change to the interest rate over this time or that it has acted in a way 
that has disadvantaged Mr Z.
Action Fraud
Mr Z believes details of the transfer should  be referred to Action Fraud,  but this isnt 
something this service or Nationwide is able to do. However, Mr Z is able to make a 
complaint to the Police or Action  Fraud himself  if he wants to.
responses
Both parties  were invited  to respond to my provisional decision. Nationwide had nothing  
further to add but Mr Z responded and said, in summary:
The account was closed after he exhausted all efforts to get Nationwide  and their 
fraud department  to investigate this matter. This was met by complete and total 
refusal by Nationwide.
The provisional decision indicated that there was "electronic footprint" of the 
transactions being made on his mobile phone using  his fingerprint. He asked that 
evidence should be provided of this.
He agreed the interest rates were changeable. And that they were  determined by the 
number of years the account holder has been  a continuous member of Nationwide.  
This is exactly  the point  he was making. He thought Nationwide deliberately ignored 
to inform me of the fact that they have  three  levels of loyalty  saver accounts. A basic  
loyalty saver  account, a 10-year loyalty saver  account and a 15-year loyalty saver 
account. His account was in the highest  level hence the higher interest rate which 
Nationwide deliberately did all manoeuvres fraudulently in order  to pay him less 
interest.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im still not persuaded that this complaint should  be upheld. I will now 
explain why.
Ref: DRN86283114Touch ID
Mr Z has said hed like evidence that his fingerprint  was used to access  the mobile phone 
app when the transactions were made. The evidence Ive seen is an audit log showing that 
the mobile app was accessed using the Touch  ID feature.  We dont have Mr Zs fingerprints 
on file and there is no evidence showing that it was specifically Mr Zs fingerprint that was 
used to access the mobile app.
In the absence of specific  evidence, Ive thought  about whats more likely than not to have 
happened. The audit log shows that Mr Zs mobile app was accessed using Touch ID 
several times prior to the date of the transfers. And there doesnt  appear to have been any 
fraudulent activity on any of the occasions  when the app was accessed.
I also dont think transferring money  between a savings and current  account is the pattern of 
a typical fraudster. I say this because there was no attempt to transfer  the money out of the 
current account. And the funds were moved back to the savings account within  a few days. 
Touch ID is a fingerprint identity sensor and every  fingerprint is unique.  So, based  on the 
activity on the account  when  it was accessed,  I think its unlikely that another persons 
fingerprint was used to access Mr Zs mobile  app. And in the absence  of any other  evidence,  
I still think its more likely  than not  that  it was Mr Zs fingerprint that was used  to access the 
app at the time the transfers  to and from the current account were  made.
interest rate
Mr Z has pointed out that there are three levels of loyalty saver account.  However,  I was 
aware of this and took this into account when I checked the interest rate that was applied  to 
his savings account. And as Ive said in my provisional decision, I havent seen anything  to 
suggest Nationwide have acted in a way that has disadvantaged him. So I wont be asking 
them to do anything else in regards to his complaint.
I appreciate my decision will be a disappointment to Mr Z, but I hope Ive clearly  explained
why I think this is a fair outcome.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 April 2020.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8628311