K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
In 2003, Mr H applied  for a credit card by post. At the same time, Capital One sold him PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr H disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Hs case. 
Having done so, I dont believe the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr H says he was unaware the PPI had been  added. But Ive seen a copy  of the form he 
completed and signed  to apply for the credit card. It offered  a choice of Yes and No boxes 
for PPI in a section  headed ADDITIONAL INFORMATION. The Yes box was ticked.  
On balance, I believe Mr H was made aware the PPI was optional and that he decided  to 
take it on that basis. Its understandable that he might not remember that now after all this 
time.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H. That meant it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have to give him enough  information to be able to decide for himself  if 
it was right for him. And the information had to be clear, fair and not misleading.
Looking at the information I have,  its possible that Capital One didnt do this as well as it 
should have. But I dont think Mr H is worse off as a result. Thats  because  I dont think 
better information would  have  changed  Mr Hs mind about buying the PPI. I say that 
because:
Mr H was eligible  for the policy. And he wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy excluded or limited  cover for. 
Mr H has told us he had very limited means  of meeting his card repayments  if he wasnt  
working. The PPI would have paid 10% of the monthly  balance on the account  for up to 
12 months per claim  for both disability and unemployment.  So I think the PPI provided 
Mr H with worthwhile protection. 
Ive seen  nothing  to suggest the cost of the PPI was unaffordable for Mr H. And it was 
payable by regular premium.  So if hed decided he no longer wanted the PPI, he could 
have cancelled it at any time at no extra  cost.
Which means Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
Ref: DRN88697402But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H (by offsetting this against 
his existing debt with it) because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have  told Mr H about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital Ones paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  thats  fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand its already done  this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8869740