K820x#14complaint
Miss W is unhappy  with how Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  dealt  with her 
application to port her mortgage.  She says Halifax told her too late that it wouldnt be willing 
to lend on the property so she was forced  to arrange a mortgage  elsewhere and she 
therefore incurred  an early repayment  charge (ERC)  on her Halifax mortgage.
background
Miss W had a mortgage with Halifax and she wanted to move to a new property. As her 
existing mortgage  product  had an ERC  she wanted  to port her mortgage product across  so 
she wouldnt  incur the charge.
She found a flat she wanted to buy that had been converted from a terraced house. Halifax 
said it needed a ten-year building guarantee or a Professional Consultants Certificate (PCC). 
The application was submitted on 9 July 2018  by Miss Ws mortgage broker.
On 30 July 2018 a valuation was carried out on the property in error;  the broker  had asked it 
be cancelled  as the works to the property  hadnt  been completed.  There was no mention of 
the PCC  in that valuation.
A second valuation  was carried out on 15 August 2018 and on 22 August Miss Ws broker 
was told Halifax wasnt willing to lend on the property as the PCC that was being  obtained  
didnt meet its requirements.  This was because the PCC was being provided by a third party  
company that hadnt overseen  the works from commencement,  which  is a requirement for 
the UK Finance Mortgage Lenders  approved PCC  form that Halifax  needed.
Unhappy with that Miss Ws broker complained to Halifax. In the meantime an application 
was placed with a different mortgage  lender  as Miss W wanted to continue  with the purchase 
of the property. The other mortgage completed  on 2 October 2018  and Miss W redeemed 
her Halifax  mortgage, incurring an ERC in doing  so.
Halifax rejected the main  thrust  of the complaint, but apologised that Miss W wasnt  fully 
informed about  the PCC  upon  the first valuation. It offered  £200  compensation for that. It 
said the PCC wasnt acceptable because  the works werent overseen from the start by the 
issuing company, which is what Halifax required.
Our adjudicator thought that was a fair offer, and said there was no record  of Miss Ws 
broker asking Halifax if the PCC  would be acceptable. Miss W didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Miss W wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way 
that I have.  Although Ive read and considered  the whole file Ill keep my comments  to what  I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Ref: DRN83281452As a starting point,  its up to Halifax what documents it needs  when deciding whether to lend 
money. Miss W said her broker was told by Halifax that a PCC  would  be acceptable and that 
Halifax stated that usually this had to be signed  off by the architect  overseeing the 
refurbishment but did not state at any point  that this was a requirement of their lending.  
It seems  from this that Miss Ws broker was put on notice that the PCC  would  most  likely 
need to be signed by the architect overseeing  the works, as indicated  by the phrase usually 
this had to be . Halifax might not have used the exact word requirement  but the 
implication is very strong.
Miss W also said  we researched and found a company who would provide a PCC 
certificate. At this point my mortgage advisor went back to Halifax  sending the information 
from the PCC company to ascertain if this was acceptable, they confirmed it was
Ive reviewed that email  trail very carefully  but it doesnt add any weight to Miss Ws 
argument that Halifax knew exactly what would be happening with the PCC and agreed to it. 
The first email in the trail is from the PCC  company saying a quote  would  be provided and 
giving details about the company. Next Miss W sent that email to her broker  asking him to 
check with Halifax that the certificate  is acceptable  before  the sellers  buy it. The broker  then 
replies saying yes they have said this would  be sufficient  for them. 
There are two reasons  why this email trail doesnt add weight to Miss Ws argument  that 
Halifax had agreed  to it. The first is that Halifax has searched all the calls it received in and 
cant find any calls from Miss Ws broker about this. It has found other calls from Miss Ws 
broker about other customers so its satisfied  its searching the right numbers.  In addition the 
information provided is simply about  a company that can provide  the PCC. Theres nothing 
in that email trail to indicate  the company that would  be issuing the certificate wouldnt be 
overseeing the work from its commencement, which is the reason why Halifax couldnt 
accept it.
Saying all that, I do think that there  was a customer service failing as there was an 
opportunity for Halifax to have made  Miss W aware  of the requirements  for the PCC when 
the first valuation was carried out. For that Halifax has offered £200.  
Miss W says she wouldnt have bought  the property had she been aware sooner. She says 
she would  have had time to find a different property, but because  it was so late in the 
process pulling out of the purchase would  have either left her homeless, or may have 
impacted on her property  she was selling as that could  have  fallen through.  
At the time this came to light it wasnt too late for Miss W to pull out of the purchase. Miss W 
hadnt exchanged contracts, and didnt complete on the purchase  for another six weeks.  If 
Miss W didnt want to incur the ERC she could have pulled out of the purchase and looked 
for another  property to buy. That may have  meant  she lost the buyer  for her current  home, 
but theres nothing  to show  that was the most  likely  outcome.
Instead Miss W decided to go ahead with the purchase using a different mortgage lender 
and so incurred  the ERC.  Miss W had the chance  to pull out of the purchase,  and chose not 
to. So theres no reason  why Halifax should  refund the ERC it fairly  charged when Miss W 
repaid her mortgage.
Clearly, its not ideal that the PCC issue wasnt made fully clear when the first valuation was 
carried out; but as Ive said already  I cant see anywhere that Halifax gave incorrect  
Ref: DRN83281453information about it. With this in mind, I think the compensation put forward by Halifax  of 
£200 is a fair amount and I understand  Miss W has already cashed that cheque.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8328145