K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way a claim for malicious  damage under his landlord insurance 
policy was handled  and settled by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
Mr K let out a property.  In January 2019 he made a claim to RSA after his tenant 
disappeared and he discovered a lot of damage had been caused  to the property.  RSA said 
it asked him to send  it photos and details of the damage.
Mr K arranged for some repairs  to be carried out. He sent RSA invoices for repair  works.  
RSA didnt accept  that all the damage was malicious. Where it accepted that damage was 
malicious, it didnt  think  it was clear that all of the damage had been caused in a single 
event. It thought thered probably  been  a series of malicious  acts carried  out over a period 
of time. It said the fact some repairs that had been  carried out before its agent could inspect 
the damage meant it couldnt be sure what the extent  of the malicious damage was and it 
would only pay what it would have  cost if its own contractor  had carried out the repair.  
Mr K didnt think that was fair. He complained to RSA. It didnt change its decision  about the 
policy excesses but agreed its service  should  have been better. It awarded him £100  
compensation for this.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service. As well as being  unhappy about RSAs service  
and multiple excesses, he also complained that RSA had unfairly declined parts of his claim. 
Our investigator didnt  think  RSA had acted fairly in applying  a separate excess for each 
area of malicious  damage that it did accept  because he didnt think  RSA had fairly shown 
that the damage  happened at different times. He thought  RSA should pay for a replacement  
lock and add interest  at 8% on the amount due to Mr K. He thought the amount of 
compensation RSA had paid for poor service was fair.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter  has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case its not disputed that Mr Ks tenant caused some  malicious  damage.  What I need  
to decide first is whether it was reasonable for RSA to apply more than one excess  to the 
claim.
RSA argues that its entitled to charge multiple  excesses as there were various separate  
incidents of malicious  damage. Mr Ks policy provides that the excess  should be applied to 
the first part of any claim. It doesnt refer to incidents or events. Mr K has made  only one 
claim. Although there are several incidents of malicious damage recorded, I note that 
according to Mr K the flat was well maintained when he inspected it three months before the 
damage was discovered and all seemed in order when his handyman visited  the following 
month. So I think its likely that the malicious damage took place at roughly the same time.  
So RSA should  be applying just one excess in respect of malicious damage.
Ref: DRN88472932RSA considered Mr Ks claim for the cost of changing the front door lock under the 
accidental damage  section of his policy. Its not clear to me why. Since  Mr Ks relationship 
with his tenant had broken down and RSAs  accepted there  was other malicious  damage to 
the property, it seems to me likely that the tenants  intention in changing or damaging the 
lock was to make it difficult for Mr K to access the property and so was thereby malicious. It 
follows I dont think RSA treated Mr K fairly  in refusing to cover this loss.
I dont think that the general messy  condition  of the property amounts to malicious damage.  
I appreciate that we dont know what was in the tenants mind  before she left. But I think  it 
most likely that this damage  is due to misuse  or neglect rather than a deliberate act to 
cause damage.  
RSA accepted the need for carpentry repairs to the woodwork  in a bedroom  and necessary  
redecoration. It said this would have cost it £58.75 but as this was less than the £100  
excess, it didnt  think  it was liable to pay anything  in respect of this. As explained  above,  I 
dont think RSA acted  fairly in applying separate excesses for each item of malicious  
damage. So I think it should pay this amount to Mr K plus simple  interest  at 8% a year.
Included in the electrical works that Mr K claimed  for was the cost of a replacement fuse box. 
RSA said it wouldnt pay for that repair as there  was no evidence of the damage. It was up to 
Mr K in the first instance to show that it was damaged. Since  RSAs  agent wasnt  able to 
validate this part of the claim  I dont think RSA treated Mr K unfairly in refusing to pay for it.
RSA declined to pay for making good damage to paintwork  in a bedroom  due to a lack of 
evidence. Mr K has provided photos showing  scribbling on the walls.  To my mind they look 
more like damage caused by a child rather than damage caused by the tenant  with the 
intention of causing harm. Im not persuaded that it would  be fair of me to require RSA to 
pay the cost of redecoration.
Mr K said he had to get new doors on all the units because he wouldnt have been able 
to match the remaining  doors. Again, he decided to use his own contractor because he 
knew and trusted  him. By the time RSA was able to assess  the damage, much of the 
work had already  been done. I think this prejudiced its position since  RSAs agent  might 
have been able to match the remaining  doors. So I dont  think  RSA acted unreasonably 
in settling this part of the claim on the basis of what it would have had to pay for two new 
doors and drawers.
Mr K has provided photos showing how the carpets in the property had been damaged. 
Unfortunately Mr Ks policy didnt cover  contents.  This service follows the industry 
convention of treating  carpets as contents.  So I dont think RSA treated him unfairly in saying 
that carpets  werent  covered  by his buildings policy.
RSA has acknowledged  its service should have  been better and its offered £100 to 
compensate Mr K for the trouble and upset  caused  by that. I can see that it caused  Mr K a 
degree of frustration and unnecessary stress by the way it communicated  with him and 
handled his claim. But having taken all the circumstances into account  I think that 
compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable. I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr K but Ive thought about  this services approach to awards made  in 
similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly award any more. 
Ref: DRN88472933my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to 
consider all the malicious damage  as one claim and deduct  one excess  in respect of it;
repay all but one of the excesses paid by Mr K with interest* from the date he paid them 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr K £58.75  in respect of the carpentry and redecoration claim with interest* from the 
date the remainder of the claim was originally settled to the date of the settlement;
pay the claim for the replacement lock with interest*  from the date the remainder of the 
claim was originally  settled to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Mr K, it should  tell him how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr K a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8847293