K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC rejected her claim about a faulty car under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  and refused to do a chargeback on her purchase.
background
In April Mrs B bought a second-hand car for £7,800 with her Lloyds credit card. On the day 
she bought it, she noticed some  faults with the car. She says the salesman told her these 
would be repaired under warranty, but this never  happened. She also says that she was only 
given one key to the car, but a second key would be sent to her in the post within  a week.  
But she was later told that there was no second key.
Mrs B asked Lloyds to pay her £3,558 to cover  the cost of having the faults  fixed herself 
(including £1,200 for a replacement key). After some  delay, Lloyds  declined  her claim in 
September 2018. It said that it had asked  her for evidence  of the faults  but she had not 
provided any. So it paid her £150 for the delay in dealing  with her claim,  but did not agree  to 
do anything else.
Being dissatisfied with that answer, Mrs B complained to our Service.  Following her 
complaint, Lloyds offered to review her claim again  if she provided evidence to support her 
claim. In the meantime,  Mrs B sold the car in January 2019.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said that although  Mrs B said she had 
been to a local mechanic who had advised  her about the work that needed  doing  to repair  
the faults, she had not any provided  evidence of that. He also said there was no 
independent evidence about  what she had been  told by the salesman, or how many keys the 
car had had. So Lloyds had not been  wrong to decline to do a chargeback  or to reject her 
claim for a refund. He thought £150 was fair compensation for Lloydss  delay in dealing with 
this matter.
Mrs B asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Section 75 is a law which  can make the provider of credit (in this case, Lloyds) jointly  liable 
for a misrepresentation or breach  of contract by a merchant where the goods are bought  
with the credit. Chargeback is another  dispute resolution process, which  is run by the card 
scheme according to its own rules.  (Neither of these can be used to make  Lloyds  pay Mrs B 
compensation for the dealer ignoring her when she complained.)
Besides the missing second key, the other issues Mrs B complained  about were  the 
passenger side window and rear parking sensors not working, and a cracked rear light.  She 
wrote a letter to Lloyds, which Ive read, in which she said that the car had been inspected 
by a local mechanic  who had given  her an estimate of how much it would cost to resolve 
each of these  issues. However, she has never provided any evidence from the mechanic to 
support this, despite  being asked three times by Lloyds, and then being asked again by our 
adjudicator in February 2019. One of the reasons the adjudicator  gave for rejecting her 
Ref: DRN88018482complaint on 1 March  was that she had failed to provide such evidence, and her response  
was only to ask for her complaint  to be looked  at again. She did not provide new evidence.
Of course,  what  Mrs B has told us is itself evidence. But I dont think  it is plausible  that it 
would really cost £1,200  for a new car key. A simple internet search shows  that it is possible 
to replace a key for around a tenth of that price.  So without supporting  evidence  from an 
independent source, I am not prepared  to accept that it would have  cost £3,558  to resolve all 
of the issues with the car. Nor am I prepared  to take Mrs Bs word for it that all of these 
problems existed in the first place. I dont think it is unreasonable to ask for proof of faults 
with a car, so I cant fault Lloyds for declining to assist without seeing some proof first. I dont 
think it would  have  been difficult for her to obtain a written estimate from her mechanic.
Even if I had taken a different view about  that, proof of the faults would  still not necessarily 
prove that there  was a breach of contract by the dealer. The Consumer Rights  Act 2015  
says that it is an implied term in every contract  to supply goods that the goods will be of 
satisfactory quality. But it goes on to say in section 9(4) that this does not apply to faults 
which the purchaser knew about  at the point of sale. Mrs B says that when she bought the 
car she knew about the faults she is now complaining about, so the faults cannot amount to 
a breach of contract.
I could still uphold Mrs Bs complaint if I was satisfied that there had been a 
misrepresentation made by the salesman. But as I am not satisfied that the faults existed, 
I am not satisfied that he discussed  them. For the same reason, I therefore dont find that 
there was a breach of an agreement to repair the faults.
I think much  the same  thing about the key. If the salesman said that a second key would be 
provided, then the failure to provide it  even inadvertently  would be a breach of contract. 
But there is nothing  to verify that this was said. I have seen the vehicle order  form and the 
advertisement for the car, and neither of them says how many  keys there will be. I would 
expect a new car to come  with two keys as a matter of course, but this car was ten years  old 
and had had five previous  owners. So I wont assume that the salesman would have 
promised it would come  with two keys.  It is of course  still possible that he did, by mistake,  
and I have taken  into account the fact that Mrs B has told us he did. But I dont think  that is 
enough in this case. Her reluctance  to provide evidence  of the faults  when asked, which 
would have been easy to obtain, makes me think it would not be fair and reasonable to 
require Lloyds to compensate her for this issue based solely on her account of what  was 
said. 
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8801848