K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs F bought the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most  likely to have happened  in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided that Mrs Fs PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs F says she didnt  know  the PPI had been added to her account, and that she 
wouldnt have agreed to buy it.  
Barclaycard told us Mrs F applied for her credit  card and PPI in a branch of Barclays. 
But Mrs F says notes  on her application form suggest its more likely  she was 
approached in the street by a Barclaycard representative. She says the form wasnt 
completed in her hand writing, and that she probably signed it where she was told to. 
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure exactly what was discussed  between Mrs F 
and Barclaycard when the PPI was sold (whether this was in branch or following an 
approach by Barclaycard). Im also mindful that these  events  took place many years  
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened  can fade over time.
Mrs Fs application  was completed to show that she wanted the PPI, and she signed 
the relevant section of the form. There was the option to buy another type of 
insurance directly underneath the PPI section of the form, but it seems Mrs F chose 
not to take that.
Ive noted everything  Mrs F has said. I accept  its possible PPI wasnt  discussed, but 
its equally likely that it was  although  I can understand why Mrs F may no longer  
remember this.
Overall, from what Ive seen and been told, I havent been able to safely  conclude  
that Barclaycard  didnt  make Mrs F aware that she had a choice about buying the 
PPI.
Ref: DRN88738462Whether or not Mrs F completed  her application  in branch or following an approach  
by Barclaycard, the key thing I need  to keep in mind  is that a Barclaycard 
representative recommended  the PPI to Mrs F. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Even though  Mrs F says she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer, the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to those  benefits and wouldve been useful to her if she 
couldnt work. And having the policy in place wouldve meant Mrs F didnt have to 
rely on her parents.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But its unlikely Mrs F would  have been affected  by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because:  
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about  that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mrs 
F, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does have to pay back  to Mrs F any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8873846