K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W took out the PPI at the same  time as applying for the credit card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagrees and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs W says that she didnt  know  that PPI had been  applied to her credit card account.  
Therefore it was added  without her knowledge or consent. Ive seen the application form that 
Mrs W completed. There is a separate section for PPI and Yes  and No boxes to either 
accept or decline the policy.  There is a tick in the Yes box. If Mrs W hadnt wanted the 
policy she could have  ticked  No. Mrs W says she doesnt believe she ticked the box as she 
never took out PPI with anything. Presumably she is therefore alleging  that someone at 
Barclays ticked the box upon receipt  of the completed application  form.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs W has said. This service had dealt with a great  many  
complaints about  Barclays credit  cards and the evidence  that weve seen overall  is that the 
policy was optional  so it was only applied to an account  if someone  requested  it. I have no 
evidence to conclude  that something different happened  in this case.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mrs Ws recollection of 
events has faded.  On balance I think that Mrs W probably ticked the Yes  box herself to buy 
the PPI. It seems to me that she decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if 
she no longer remembers  doing so.
Barclays didnt advise  Mrs W to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide Mrs W with sufficient  evidence for her to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether or not it was right for her.
I think Mrs W would have known something  about the policy   that it would have covered her 
credit card repayments if she was unable  to work  due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment  because I dont think shed have  opted for the PPI without knowing 
anything about  it at all.
Mrs W would  have received less than three months sick pay from her job. The policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to this and potentially for longer than Mrs W would have received 
full pay for. Mrs W says she had some savings. But having the policy  would have meant that 
she could retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a 
Ref: DRN82410292difficult time. So I think that Mrs W had a need for the policy and could  have benefitted from 
it.
Mrs W says Barclays  didnt send her paperwork  about the policy afterwards. Mrs W would 
have received correspondence  from Barclays relating to the credit card application  having  
been successful.  I think its likely  that she would have also received information  about the 
policy around that time. Again,  it was a long time ago and so its unlikely that Mrs W would  
have any particular recollection of receiving, or not receiving, certain documentation.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide  as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mrs W wasnt  affected by any of 
those things. As I think that she had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont  
think that any further information would  have caused her to change her mind.  So she isnt 
any worse off as a result of anything Barclays may have  done wrong. So theres nothing that 
Barclays needs to do to put things  right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8241029