K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly  charged 
her for excess mileage and damage under a hire purchase agreement. 
Mrs B has also said she doesnt think the car was of satisfactory quality from the outset.
background
In December 2015, Mrs B acquired  a new car using a hire purchase agreement  from 
BMWFS. The total repayable under  the agreement was £28,015.86.  Mrs B was required to 
make 47 monthly repayments of £406.24 and there was a final optional payment of 
£8,922.58 if she wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mrs B had the right to terminate the agreement at any time 
before the final payment was due. In doing  so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the 
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this 
was £14,007.93.
In October  2018 Mrs B chose to exercise her right to terminate the agreement early. 
As she hadnt yet paid at least £14,007.93, BMWFS said she needed to pay a further 
£602.01. After  Mrs B handed  the car back,  BMWFS later charged  her a further £624.93 as 
she had exceeded  the mileage allowance  on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mrs B had an annual mileage allowance  of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 32,000. It said that if she exceeded this allowance BMWFS  could 
charge her 4.97 pence for every mile that she exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the 
event she terminated  the agreement early,  the mileage allowance  would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
In addition to the excess  mileage charge,  BMWFS also asked Mrs B to pay £272.09 for 
damage to the car when it was returned. They said this fell outside of fair wear and tear, and 
in accordance with the relevant guidance, a charge could be applied. 
BMWFS didnt accept that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was provided. They 
did, however, recognise that the car had spent  some time in the dealers undergoing repairs 
under warranty and offered Mrs B £301  as a gesture of goodwill. BMWFS  records showed 
that the car hadnt been back  for repair in the first six months and Mrs B was unable to show 
any evidence to confirm  any faults proved the car to be unsatisfactory. So BMWFS  didnt do 
anything more. 
Mrs B didnt think the charges were fair. She said that the car had had several things wrong  
with it from the outset and it hadnt been  explained to her by BMWFS that she could reject 
the car. She felt this would have avoided the payments  shes  been asked for. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. In regard to the excess mileage 
she was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess  mileage charge correctly in line 
with the terms of the hire purchase agreement  and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
She also found that the terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of an 
excess mileage charge being  payable on voluntary termination. 
Ref: DRN89117792In summary,  she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination;
In brief,  on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least  half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total  price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable  
under the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are 
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means  that any charges 
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination;
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination;
The hire purchase agreement sets out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination . The term in Mrs Bs agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination;
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement;
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mrs Bs accrued liability under S100 therefore  included 
paying an additional amount of £624.93;
The credit  agreement  set out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
costs would be charged, when it would accrue  and how much it would cost;
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded;
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, she was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. She was therefore satisfied it 
was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional  amount. 
In relation to the damage charges applied by BMWFS, the investigator said they were fair. 
She considered the guidance from the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) along with the terms  of the agreement  and was satisfied the damage reported  at 
termination fell outside that which could be deemed as fair wear  and tear. 
Our investigator also said there wasnt anything to suggest the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was acquired. She said that, although BMWFS acknowledged the car had 
been back for repairs under warranty, there  wasnt anything to show this had happened in 
the first six months. And Mrs B hadnt provided any evidence to show she wasnt happy with 
the repairs completed. Our investigator felt BMWFS payment of £301 was reasonable to 
compensate Mrs B for the time she had been without the car.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said BMWFS should have made  her aware that she might have 
been able to reject the car. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN89117793In paying a deposit and her monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mrs B use of the car for the duration of the agreement. She also had the option  to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£8,922.58. While Mrs B was entitled  to use the car, that use was subject to certain 
conditions, such as maintaining and taking  care of the car and only driving  a maximum 
mileage each year and overall  throughout the lifetime of the agreement.  The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mrs B not meet  these requirements. 
Mrs B exercised her right to voluntarily terminate  the agreement. In some  instances, 
voluntary termination  allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay 
anything more. But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to 
the agreement, whether there are any arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and 
whether any excess mileage or other  charges are due. 
In this case Mrs B accepts that she was required to pay £14,007.93 to voluntarily terminate 
the agreement. But she disputes  the excess mileage charge of £624.93, and the damage 
charge of £272.09, that have been added on top of this figure. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntarily terminate their hire purchase  
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination  your rights  section 
of Mrs Bs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability  that is due on termination and 
in her case, that was £14,007.93. Various sections of the agreement Mrs B had with 
BMWFS also referred  to the liability on early termination, including  where excess  mileage, 
damage charges  or other charges may increase the final liability. 
What I have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the 
charging for excess mileage - I will consider this aspect first - without contravening what is 
set out in the CCA regarding voluntary termination? In Mrs Bs cases, I think it has. Ill 
explain why.
As the investigator  has explained, S99 sets out the that any liabilities which  accrue prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means  is that Mrs B is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination. 
The first page of Mrs Bs hire purchase  agreement has a section headed:  Excess  mileage  
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your  obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination.  Im satisfied 
that Mrs Bs agreement is worded clearly in setting  out when excess  mileage charges 
accrue. 
The agreement also has a section headed Termination  your rights. This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary  
sets out that so long as Mrs B has paid at least half the total amount payable under the 
agreement, she will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about  whether this conflicts  with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those  that explain charges for exceeding  
the mileage might apply.  
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think  the agreement  is 
either unclear or misleading concerning  the charges for excess  mileage. I think  it explains 
Ref: DRN89117794that the excess mileage  charge can be applied in addition to other  charges for voluntary  
termination. I dont  therefore consider that the way this specific  agreement  has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mrs B.
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mrs B is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.
Mrs Bs agreement  also explains that the car must be returned in a good condition  with only  
fair wear and tear. When the car was collected by BMWFS agent a full inspection was 
carried out and a report was produced. Any damage was assessed against  the BVRLA 
guidelines. This showed that there was damage  considered outside of fair wear and tear to 
two of the wheel alloys,  along with scratches and flaking paint to the front and rear bumpers 
and one of the quarter  panels. Ive looked  at the report  and the photos provided by BMWFS, 
and Im satisfied the damage shown meets the criteria outlined in the BVRLA guidance and 
is not fair wear and tear expected for a car of this age and mileage. Im more  persuaded that 
this amounts to unrepaired damage and is chargeable. 
Mrs B has said she wasnt aware  of her rights  at the time she acquired  the car or when she 
decided to voluntary  terminate  the agreement. She feels  that BMWFS should have explained 
her rights to her as she feels  she would have been  able to reject the car because of previous 
faults. 
Because BMWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality at the point  of supply. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if they 
are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into account  factors 
such as  amongst  other things  the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. BMWFS  
supplied Mrs B with a new car. So, I think a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be higher  than a second-hand car with more road use. And that the car could be 
used, free from defects,  for a considerable period of time.  
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says that, when a car isnt of satisfactory  quality, there are a 
range of remedies  available.  BMWFS isnt required to set out in detail exactly what  those  
remedies are, or explicitly explain that rejection of the car might  be an option. And, as the 
faults appeared after the first 30 days of the agreement starting, BMWFS were entitled to 
repair the car. Im not persuaded that rejection  of the car was an option available at the time 
Mrs B first notified  BMWFS of the faults.  BMWFS offered to repair the car, and Mrs B 
accepted this. So, its reasonable for me to assume she was happy with that option at the 
time. 
As mentioned above, BMWFS arent  obligated to highlight Mrs Bs rights to her. As a 
consumer she should have taken the time to consider her options and ensure she was doing  
the right thing. BMWFS have refunded Mrs B £301 to reflect the time she was without the 
car  I think thats a reasonable thing for them  to have done. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2021.
Ref: DRN89117795Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8911779