K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Automobile Association Insurance  Services  Limited (AA) didnt renew  
his home  insurance  policy despite receiving his annual premium, which left him without 
cover for a year. He says discovering he hadnt been covered  caused him distress and 
inconvenience.
background
Mr S held an AA home insurance policy. The policy was underwritten  by a different business, 
known as the insurer, which would have been responsible for considering, and paying,  any 
claims. 
In 2017 Mr S paid AA his premium for the year ahead, to renew  his policy.  However, due to 
an administrative error, although AA received his funds it didnt apply them  which  meant 
his policy  lapsed  and left him without cover.
Mr S was unaware of the situation until a year later, when he contacted AA to ask why he 
hadnt yet received his latest renewal  pack  at this point he was told his policy  had been  
cancelled the previous  year due to non-payment  of his renewal premium.
Mr S says the shock caused  him to have a panic attack  and because  English isnt his first 
language he wasnt  sure how to resolve the matter,  which caused him stress. He says a 
family member had to arrange alternative  cover  for him; and a family friend had to make  
several calls over two days,  to his bank and AA, to find out where  his funds had gone. 
AA asked Mr S to send  it documentation to show he had made the payment; and AA located 
the funds and returned them to him. Mr S complained about  what  had happened,  and asked 
why he hadnt  been told that his payment hadnt  been received and his policy had lapsed.  In 
response, AA apologised to Mr S and sent him £50 to recognise the inconvenience that had 
been caused and for his telephone call costs.  AA also explained  that if Mr S had made  a 
claim during  the period he wasnt insured, it would have honoured his claim for him.
Mr S remained unhappy,  so he referred his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  
by one of our investigators. But she thought that £50 compensation and the premium  refund 
fairly acknowledged the inconvenience and upset this matter had caused. Our investigator  
also commented that Mr S had essentially  received  a years cover free, because if he had 
made a claim during  the period he wasnt insured, this service  would have expected  AA to 
have paid it. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint  has been passed to me to decide.  He 
has reiterated that he had to do the running around; and find help from family  and friends,  
who spent two days phoning AA to find the missing payment.  Hes also explained that he 
would like another years  premium as compensation,  to acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused,  and for his loyal custom over the years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN80356012Having done so, Ive reached the same  outcome  as our investigator.  I acknowledge that this 
issue has caused Mr S a degree  of inconvenience  and concern, but fortunately, he hasnt 
needed to make a claim during the period in question, so he hasnt been  impacted by not 
having cover  in place.
In any event, as our investigator  explained,  if Mr S had needed to claim during the period he 
was without insurance, this service  would have expected AA to have considered his claim, 
in-line with the policy  terms  that should  have been  in place. AA has also said that it holds 
professional indemnity insurance which covers such a scenario. Therefore, because the 
premium was refunded,  Mr S has effectively had a years free cover.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has told us in respect of the impact AAs error had on 
him, but overall,  Im satisfied that the premium  refund and £50 compensation sufficiently 
acknowledged the trouble  and upset he suffered. So Im not persuaded AA needs to do 
anything more to put matters  right.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S. But for the reasons  explained above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8035601