K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained that Horizon  Insurance Company Limited incorrectly recorded 
information about her motor insurance  history on a shared database.
background
Miss H told Horizon that another car had ran into the back  of hers and that she wanted to 
make a claim for the damage. She later withdrew the claim. Sometime  later she found  out 
Horizon had recorded the claim on a shared insurance database: the claims and 
underwriting exchange  (CUE). The claim was affecting her premium with another insurer.
Horizon looked into the matter. It told Miss H that although it had closed the claim it had 
been showing on CUE as open.  So it changed the information on CUE  to show the incident  
as reported for notification  purposes  only. And it wrote her a letter  confirming it had done so 
and advised her to contact her new insurer with that information. It paid her £50 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss H brought  her complaint to us. Our adjudicator thought Horizon had dealt with Miss H 
reasonably. Miss H wasn't happy  with the adjudicators findings so the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Miss Hs policy  says that she is required to tell Horizon about  any driving incidents shes  
involved in regardless of whether she intends  to claim. The policy  also says that Horizon will 
pass on information about any driving incidents to CUE. Thats  usual practice in the motor 
insurance industry. All motor insurers Im aware  of share driving  claims and incident 
information on CUE. And insurers will record the details of every  incident on CUE, even 
where no claim is made. Miss H did initially  tell Horizon about an accident and made  a claim. 
So Horizon would have, quite correctly, recorded  the incident  on CUE at that point. 
Miss H later withdrew  that claim.  But it seems  that although Horizon closed the claim  on its 
records it didn't appropriately  update CUE at that point. But, after Miss H contacted it, it 
updated the information on CUE to show the incident as notification only.  That means that 
although the incident was reported no claim was paid and the incident wouldn't  affect  
Miss Hs no claims  discount. That was the correct way for Horizon to report  the claim on 
CUE.   
Horizon recognised  that Miss H might  need  to contact her current  insurer  to see if the 
amended information on CUE reduced her premium. So it wrote to her to confirm  what  it had 
done and paid her £50 compensation for the inconvenience. And I think that was a 
reasonable response in the circumstances.
Some insurers will say that any driving incident,  regardless of whether or not a claim is made 
or paid will affect a consumers premium.  But thats  a matter for each individual  insurer  to 
decide. It doesn't mean that an insurer like Horizon shouldn't correctly record incidents on 
CUE just because no claim is made or a claim is withdrawn. Horizon  should  have updated  
Ref: DRN82338872CUE sooner. But given  that its now ensured CUE  has recorded the incident correctly  and 
paid Miss H compensation  for her inconvenience  because of its delay, I think its done 
enough to put things  tight. And Im not going to direct it to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8233887