K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc (BOS) wont  refund a number of cash  withdrawal 
transactions totalling £960 that he says he didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr Y says that he travelled from his home to London  (a few hundred miles) and whilst in 
London his bag, which contained  his belongings and two bank cards,  was stolen. One of his 
cards was used to make three contactless payments  and the other to withdraw £960 cash  
over two days from cash machines. Mr Y now thinks that a letter  from the bank with his 
personal identification number (PIN)  was also in his bag. 
BOS refunded the three contactless  payments but it declined to refund the cash  withdrawals.  
It says that when Mr Y first contacted it he said that his PIN wasnt  with his card.  As it 
couldnt see a point of compromise for his PIN it declined to refund the money. BOS says 
that Mr Y only changed his mind about the PIN being with his card after it had refused  his 
claim.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. In summary, he said that Mr Y 
had told the bank that he didnt have his PIN with him but then said that a letter the bank had 
recently sent him with his PIN was also in the bag. But BOS hadnt  recently  provided  Mr Y 
with a new PIN so he thought that Mr Y had either made the cash  withdrawals himself or 
authorised another person to do so.
Mr Y didnt agree. He said that his bag had been stolen and he had simply forgotten  that the 
PIN for one of the cards  was in it.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued my provisional decision on this complaint to Mr Y 
and BOS on 12 May 2020.  I summarise my findings:
BOS can hold Mr Y liable for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests its more  
likely than not that he made them  or authorised them.
Based  on the evidence I have seen, I was satisfied that the payments from Mr Ys 
account were made using Mr Ys genuine card and the correct PIN was entered.
Mr Y first told BOS that his PIN wasnt  written  down anywhere.  He later said that when 
he got home he realised  the written record of his PIN wasnt at home  so he thinks it was 
in the bag after all.
I considered that Mr Ys evidence was largely  unreliable because  he gave differing 
accounts of what  had happened. So, I looked  at the technical evidence to determine  
whether its more likely than not that Mr Y authorised  the cash withdrawals.
I accepted that Mr Y couldnt have carried out the transactions personally. His cards 
were used  in an area that he hadnt  visited and there were  attempts to use the cards  
after Mr Y had reported them stolen and after he had returned home (a few hundred 
miles away).  When this was taken into account with all the other evidence,  I think  it 
pointed to unauthorised use of the card. 
Ref: DRN88171542The terms of Mr Ys account say that account holders  must  use their card in accordance 
with the terms and conditions governing its issue and use. If an account holder fails with 
gross negligence to comply with the regulations theyll become liable for unauthorised  
payments instead of the bank.
Its clear that customers shouldnt write down the PIN in a way which makes it obvious to 
someone else, or keep a letter giving the PIN with a card.
Mr Y failed  to keep his PIN safe. I thought  a reasonable person would see that its risky 
keeping a written note of the PIN with the card. 
After considering all the evidence I considered Mr Y was grossly negligent because  he 
had a written note of his PIN in his bag with his card. 
Subject to any further representations from Mr Y or BOS, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt uphold  the complaint. I wasnt persuaded there is enough evidence  to show  that Mr Y 
authorised the transactions, but I considered he was grossly negligent with his card and PIN. 
It follows that it was fair and reasonable for BOS  to hold him liable for the payments.  
BOS accepted my provisional decision but Mr Y disagreed. In summary, he said that he 
didnt know who had stolen his bag and he needs  help to get his money refunded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I believe that Mr Ys bag was stolen,  and that his card and PIN were used without his 
knowledge and consent. But the Payment Service Regulations 2017  (PSRs) and the terms 
of Mr Ys account say that customers can be held liable for transactions that are authorised,  
or where  they can be deemed to have been  authorised by virtue  of negligence in failing to 
keep their card and PIN secure.  As I have explained, I think that Mr Y was grossly negligent 
in keeping a note of his PIN with his card.  If he hadnt done this, then I think its unlikely that 
the thief would have  been able to make  the cash withdrawals.
Im sorry  Mr Y has been  the victim of crime and has lost money. But I dont think  its fair to 
lay the blame  and responsibility for this with BOS.  I have to reach an outcome thats  fair to 
both parties. Ultimately, whoever stole Mr Ys bag is the person at fault and responsible for 
his loss. I know Mr Y will be disappointed  but, for the reasons Ive explained, I cant fairly ask 
BOS to refund him.
Ref: DRN88171543my final decision
My final decision it that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8817154