K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that CASH ON GO LIMITED,  trading as peachy.co.uk, gave her loans  she 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mrs A took out the following loans with peachy:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
101 July 2013 200 15 July 2013
213 September 2013 390 15 October 2013
320 October 2013 400 Partial repayment.
Mrs A says it was irresponsible for peachy  to lend to her. She says she was in financial 
difficulty at the time and had other  debts  and a gambling problem.
Our adjudicator thought that peachy  carried out proportionate checks  before loan one but 
that it should have done more before loans two and three. He said if it had done that, it 
would have seen  that Mrs A couldnt  afford to repay loan two but loan three would still have 
been granted. The adjudicator set out what peachy  should do to put that right. 
Peachy didnt reply. Mrs A didnt agree with the adjudicator and said that peachy didnt do 
enough checks for all of the loans. She said in summary that any credit check would have 
shown that she had defaulted on a number of accounts and that her level of borrowing was 
unsustainable. She said that none  of the loans should have been given to her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mrs A, peachy had to check each time that she could afford to 
make the repayments.  The checks it did had to be proportionate. Whats proportionate 
depends on things  like the size of the loan repayments and the information  peachy had 
about Mrs A. Theres no set list of the checks a lender should carry out. 
Before agreeing to loan one, peachy asked Mrs A about her monthly income, which  it 
recorded as £1230. It says Mrs A said her outgoings were £585.  It says it also carried out 
credit checks to verify the information  given by Mrs A. 
I think it was sufficient for peachy to ask Mrs A only about her income before loan one. The 
amount she had to repay for this loan was relatively modest in comparison to her declared 
disposable income and this was the beginning of Mrs As lending relationship with peachy.  I 
think it was enough  for peachy to ask about Mrs As income and it did that.
I think that peachy should have done more before loans two and three.  Thats because the 
amounts Mrs A wanted  to borrow were significantly more than shed borrowed before. The 
repayment was around  half of Mrs As stated monthly income for loan 2. Although loan 3 
was an instalment loan I would  have  expected  better checks given that Mrs A asked for this 
loan only 5 days after repaying loan 2. I would  have expected peachy to check  that Mrs A 
Ref: DRN83765632wasnt reliant on this sort of credit by asking  her specifically about  any other short term loans 
she may have had. I cant see that peachy  asked Mrs A about this. 
As peachy doesnt appear to have  carried out proportionate and sufficient checks, I cant  say 
for sure what it wouldve found  out had it done so. Mrs A has provided us with evidence of 
her financial  circumstances at the time she applied for loans two and three. So Ive been  
able to get a picture of what her financial circumstances  were  like. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think that proportionate  checks before loan two would  have 
shown that Mrs A had other short term lending which meant  that she couldnt  afford  the 
repayment on loan 2 after her normal monthly living costs were met. So, I dont think peachy  
should have given her that loan. 
 As loan 3 was an instalment loan the repayment  was lower so I agree with the adjudicator  
that if peachy had taken  steps to ask about  short term credit it is unlikely to have made a 
difference to the decision to lend as Mrs As other short term lending  didnt make this 
instalment unaffordable. 
I understand what Mrs A is saying  about  her credit file and the difficulties she was in at the 
time. But a credit file is only one part of the picture  and it is unlikely that peachy would have 
seen everything that is available  to Mrs A. Mrs A told peachy about her income  and 
outgoings and I think for the first loan it was enough. Although I think Peachy should have 
asked for more information  for loans two and three that doesnt  automatically mean that 
Mrs As complaint will succeed. Id need  to be persuaded that better checks  would have 
made a difference and I can only say that it would have made a difference  in relation to 
Mrs As short term lending  situation at the point of loan 2.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think peachy  carried out proportionate checks  before loan 
one but not before loans  two and three.  I think if it had done so it would have seen that 
Mrs A couldnt afford to repay  loan two. It follows that I dont think  peachy should have given 
Mrs A that loan.     
I dont doubt that Mrs A was in difficulty and I understand why she feels  that none of the 
loans should have been given to her but I cant agree. Mrs A has also said that she is being 
unreasonably chased by the third party debt recovery company. Peachy is required to treat 
Mrs A positively and sympathetically and if there  is an outstanding balance after the refund 
of interest and charges on loan 2 I would  expect the business to arrange an affordable  
repayment plan.  I am not able to deal with any complaints Mrs A has about  that aspect in 
this decision.  
Ref: DRN83765633putting things right
I dont think peachy  should have agreed to lend to Mrs A loan 2. So for that loan peachy 
should;
refund  to Mrs A all interest and charges shes paid on loan 2, together with simple interest 
at the rate of 8% a year* from the date each  such sum was paid until the date of settlement; 
and 
remove any negative information  about this loan from Mrs As credit file.
write off any interest and charges that Mrs A hasnt paid;
deduct any capital  still owing from the compensation due;
If CASH ON GO LIMITED sold the remaining  debt to a third party  debt purchaser it should  
buy the debt back  before doing what Ive said above. If this isnt possible or it doesnt want to 
do this it should  (in addition  to the above if necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  Mrs A any interest and charges she has already paid to the third party plus 
8% interest simple per annum on each  amount  from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
instruct the third party  to remove any adverse information it may have recorded about  
the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CASH  ON GO LIMITED to take off tax from this interest.  
CASH ON GO LIMITED must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mrs As complaint and direct CASH ON GO LIMITED 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8376563