K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint against TSB Bank plc (TSB) concerns its treatment and recording of a debt 
arrangement scheme (DAS)  he entered into.
background
Mr M is represented  in this complaint by his partner,  Ms O. For ease of reference, Ill only 
refer to Mr M in this decision.
Mr M held two accounts with TSB  a loan and a credit card.  In November 2011, he entered  
into a DAS, which should have been linked to both accounts, and would have resulted in 
both defaulting  in January  2012.  But this didnt  happen. 
When TSB reported on his credit  file, it got the incorrect start date for the DAS  and set this 
as 2013 instead of 2011  and instead of recording defaults on them, late payment markers  
were added. 
Mr M complained to TSB in late 2018,  and it said in response that while it didnt agree with 
all of his complaint points,  it accepted had made some mistakes.  It said Mr Ms DAS was 
now linked  to his loan and credit card, and also that hed no longer receive letters seeking 
full repayment  of his credit  card balance. 
It offered  £375 in compensation,  with £50 for expenses. 
Mr M didnt  accept this, and brought his complaint to our service, explaining that even now,  
to-date, TSB still hasnt  taken the remedial action it said it would regarding his credit file. And 
that hes also still continuing to receive  demand letters  for full repayment of his credit card. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and was provided with further  detailed  submissions 
from Mr M. She concluded that TSB hadnt dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly; had failed to 
correct his credit file as agreed;  and should  pay him increased compensation of £1,000.
We didnt hear back from TSB,  but Mr M said he didnt think this figure was high enough to 
take into account the severe impact TSBs continued mistakes  had on him. He explained  his 
vulnerable mental  health, and how his credit  record meant that he wasnt  able to get a 
mortgage. He felt that TSB had already had the opportunity to correct  things, and it knew the 
damage it was doing to him, yet it continued.  So he didnt  agree  the £1,000 was enough.
As there was no agreement, the complaint came to me for a final decision. After  clarifying 
some matters with Mr M, I gave further thought to what I felt TSB should now do to put 
things right. It was clear  that it hadnt yet made the credit file corrections it said it would, and 
was continuing  to send payment demand  letters  to Mr M, which were upsetting him greatly,  
and further damaging his mental  health.  And I didnt think the £1,000 our Investigator  had 
recommended was enough to compensate for the long history of the complaint; all the 
mistakes made; and the impact all of this had on Mr M, when it was aware he was a 
vulnerable individual.
So I told both parties that my provisional  decision was to uphold  the complaint, and ask TSB 
to finally  and for certain make the credit file corrections, and to pay £4,000 to Mr M in 
compensation. (It should be noted that Mr M says he hasnt banked the cheque for £375,  so 
this can be cancelled.)  
Ref: DRN80428052Mr M said hed accept  this resolution,  and reiterated  how crucial it was that TSB finally, after 
all this time, really did take the remedial action needed on his credit file. This would mean 
that the defaults by now will have dropped off (after 6 years), and he can finally move on with 
his life. 
As we didnt  hear back from TSB to my provisional decision,  Im now issuing my final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator  that this complaint should be upheld. In saying 
this, it should  be noted that its not in dispute  that TSB made a number of mistakes in 
reconciling Mr Ms accounts with his DAS, and marking his credit file correctly. The reason  
for this complaint  is that despite having opportunity to do so, its still not corrected those 
mistakes, which is having a detrimental ongoing impact on Mr M, both practically, and in 
terms of his health and wellbeing. 
So Im not going to detail  all the mistakes that TSB made. Its admitted it made them, and 
has already agreed  to put them right. But this hasnt been done. So this decision is to ensure 
that this is done,  and to also decide  how much  compensation is fair for Mr M to receive for 
TSBs repeated and ongoing mistakes.
Its clearly imperative that TSB finally, and correctly, takes the remedial action it says it 
already has, but which hasnt been shown to be the case. It needs  to record  defaults at the 
correct date, remove the late payment markers,  and close both Mr Ms accounts.
I think it should also pay compensation of £4,000.  Im aware  Mr M was looking for 
significantly more, but Ive explained  that our service  is an informal alternative to the courts,  
and that our awards tend to be lower than a court would award. £4,000 is in our significant  
category, and I believe fairly and sufficiently reflects the extremely  difficult  time Mr Ms had in 
dealing with TSB, its mistakes, and his repeated attempts to ask it to correct  them.
I hope Ive explained why I think my decisions fair to both  parties.
Ref: DRN80428053my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking TSB Bank plc 
to:-
1.Clear Mr Ms credit file of all entries  relating  to his two accounts, and ensure the 
accounts are closed;
2.Prove to Mr M, and also to this service, that this has been  done; and
3.Pay Mr M £4,000 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8042805