K821x#15complaint
R, a limited company,  complains that Lloyds Bank plc (trading as Cardnet) entered a 
merchant services agreement with R without Rs authority.
background
Mrs A is the sole director of R, a limited  company. She says that in January 2019 she was 
away overseas, and on her return she was ill, so stayed away from work.  In her absence, 
one of her employees  signed the company up to two agreements: a merchant services 
agreement with Cardnet,  and a terminal hire agreement with a third party, trading as Clover,  
which was brokered  by Cardnet. Mrs A says this was done without her authority, and has 
cost her company  money because it already had an existing contract with another service 
provider.
Cardnet says its staff thought they were communicating with Rs director. It does not accept 
that it did anything  wrong,  but as a gesture of good  will it has offered to waive the normal  
cancellation fee for the Cardnet agreement. However, it did not agree to waive  the fees to 
which Clover is entitled,  because this is a separate  agreement with another  company.
Mrs A brought this complaint to our Service, on behalf of R, and argued that Cardnet should 
be liable  for Clovers fees because it arranged both agreements.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that it was for Cardnet  to prove that the 
agreements had been signed by Rs director, and it had failed to do so. The agreements  had 
been signed electronically, and only after being sent to an email address that was not the 
companys usual address. He thought it would be fair if Cardnet paid for the cost of 
cancelling the agreement with Clover, since R should not be liable for it. He also said that 
Cardnet should  refund  to R any payments R had made to Clover,  except payments for any 
use R had made of the machine.
Cardnet did not accept  that opinion. It said that as R had used the machine  in January and 
had therefore  benefited from the hire agreement, it should be estopped from challenging the 
agreement now. The person Cardnet had communicated with had claimed to be Rs director  
in phone calls and in emails, so Cardnet should  be entitled to rely on that. It asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute  that Cardnet spoke to someone  on the phone, who claimed to be the 
director of R, and that Cardnet sent the agreements to R to be signed. Mrs As email 
address was registered to Rs business  bank account with Lloyds Bank  plc. The next day, 
Cardnet phoned  back  to check  that the documents had been received. The person 
answering the phone said they had not been  received, and gave another email address for 
the agreements  to be sent to. That second email address  was not registered  to Rs account 
with Lloyds. But Cardnet still sent the agreements to that address, and then the agreements  
were returned to Cardnet, electronically  signed.
Ref: DRN81995322I accept that Cardnet did that entirely  in good  faith. But I think it defeats the object of keeping  
a record of a customers  contact details, if a new email address which has not been verified 
is used instead  of the one which is registered to the account. Its a security risk. I accept that 
the member of staff who made the phone calls was told, and believed,  that he was speaking  
to Rs director. But when  that person told him that the email  hed sent to Mrs As email  
address  the one Lloyds already had a record of  had not been received,  and he agreed to 
re-send the email to an address that Lloyds did not know and had not verified, that created 
the conditions  in which it was possible for contracts  to be signed by someone whose identity 
Cardnet could not be sure of.
For that reason,  I am not satisfied that Cardnet was dealing with the companys director,  or 
with a person  authorised by the director to act for the company on her behalf.
(I have considered  the provisions in Part 4 of the Companies Act 2006, but that is only about 
contracts which are entered into by a director,  or by a person authorised  by the company  to 
act for it. It does not assist Cardnet in circumstances where it dealt  with someone who is 
neither a director nor authorised by one.)
I think it would be fair to require Cardnet to bear the costs  associated with cancelling  the 
Clover contract, as well as waiving the cancellation  fee for its own contract. I think  the brief 
use of the machine in January can fairly  be taken into account in the manner that the 
investigator proposed   by not refunding the fees charged for its use in January 2019 (and in 
any other months when  it was used, although I dont  think there have been any). Its not a 
reason to reject this complaint  altogether.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank plc (trading as Cardnet) to:
Unwind the merchant services agreement, at no cost to R,
Arrange for the terminal to be returned  (if it hasnt been  already), at no cost to R,
Arrange for the terminal hire agreement to be cancelled,  and pay all of the costs  of 
the cancellation which would otherwise have to be paid by R,
Refund all the payments  R has made  under the terminal hire agreement, except 
those incurred in the month of January 2019,  and any charges incurred as a result  of 
any transactions that have been made since then,
Pay simple interest  on the refunds at eight  per cent a year from the dates the 
payments were made  to the date of this decision (as given at the top of page 1),
Cancel Rs direct debit to Clover.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A, on behalf  of 
R, to accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8199532