K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the advice he received from Skipton Financial Services Ltd to 
invest on two occasions in 2007  and 2010.
background
In 2007 Mr L requested  investment advice  from Skipton. The documents completed at the 
time of the sale recorded that Mr L was 67 years old. He was retired  and was married with 
no dependent children.
He held a number of savings/bank  accounts with around £20,000  in total.  He also held two 
life assurance bonds, one with AXA and one with Prudential both taken out in 1999 following 
advice from another  business. These  totalled  around £68,000 in investment value.
He held no other investments at that point in time. He had no other outstanding liabilities  and 
was in receipt of a yearly income of around £12,000  gross derived from pension benefits  and 
investment income.  Just under  half of this income came  from investment  income.
At the time of this advice  the majority of Mr Ls cash was held in very low risk holdings.
The objective of the meeting was for a full review  of his finances  and a review of the AXA 
bond specifically.
It was identified that income and growth was required and that he wanted  to use his tax 
efficient allowances. It was also recorded  that he wanted to invest  to produce potentially  
higher returns than deposit based investments. It also looks like Mr L wanted  to invest  the 
entirety of his available  cash  for a minimum of 5 years.
£21,000 was to come from the encashment of the AXA bond he held at that time.
After a number of recommendations Mr L decided to invest  £25,000 into each  of the 
following:
Standard Life Distribution Bond (Standard Life Bond); 
Legal and General  Portfolio Distribution Bond; and
Clerical Medical Distribution Bond.
Only the Standard Life Bond is the focus of this decision  for this specific  time period.
In 2010 Mr L returned  to Skipton for some further  advice. He has said this time it was 
because he was unhappy with the performance  of the Standard  Life bond.
At this point in time Mr L was three years older but the rest of his personal  circumstances 
remained the same. With regards to his financial situation at this point in time he only held 
around £4,000  in easily accessible funds.
With regards to his investment holdings, he held the same life assurance bond with 
Prudential as he did back in 2007. This was valued at around £44,000. He also held the 
Standard Life Bond that forms part of this complaint  which was valued at that point  in time at 
around £20,000. He also held around £43,000 in ISAs,  both cash and stocks and shares.
Ref: DRN89980792The other changes  were that his income had reduced to just under £9,000  gross  per annum.
It was recorded  this time that he was happy  to invest just over £44,000 for a period of five 
years.
This time Mr L was recommended  to encash his Prudential Bond and invest the total of 
around £44,000 into a CoFunds ISA and CoFunds  Unit Trust/OEIC (CoFunds portfolio) both 
invested in the Henderson Multi Manager  Income and Growth  Fund  and the Thames  River 
Capital Distribution fund.  
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who of was of the view it should be 
upheld. He felt both investments in 2007  and 2010 were unsuitable for Mr L. He felt the 
advice in 2007 was unsuitable  because the makeup of the Standard Life Bond almost  
replicated that of the AXA bond which Mr L was unhappy with. He also felt the CoFunds 
portfolio represented  more risk than was suitable  for Mr L. And he didnt think Mr L should  
have been advised to encash his Prudential bond because  he felt Mr L was unhappy with 
the Standard Life Bond rather than the Prudential Bond yet the adviser  still recommended he 
encash it. He therefore  felt Mr L would have kept the Prudential  bond in place  until the point 
at which  he encashed  both bonds  and moved his investments  way from Skipton in their 
entirety.
Mr L agreed with the outcome but wasnt satisfied with the compensation methodology and 
stated he didnt trust Skipton to calculate the redress correctly.
Skipton didnt agree with the assessment and made  the following comments:
It wouldnt have advised him to move the Standard  Life Bond in 2010  because it had 
only been in place for three years at that point.
Mr L was advised  to move the Prudential bond because it had no market value 
reduction (MVR)  applied to it at the time and also attracted a terminal  bonus.
There is nothing to suggest Mr L was unhappy  with the Standard  Life bond at the 
time of the advice  so we only have his word and the complaint is made  with the 
benefit of hindsight.
Mr L was advised  to move to the CoFunds platform because he wanted the ongoing 
monitoring service Skipton had offered then.
The funds within the CoFunds investments matched his medium/low attitude to risk 
and gave Mr L the income he wanted.
Throughout his complaint  Mr L has compared the performance of his Prudential bond 
to that of his Standard Life bond and CoFunds investment therefore  the complaint is 
based on the performance  of the investments.
While the investigator considered the points Skipton raised he wasnt  persuaded to change  
his initial  outcome. So as no agreement could  be reached the complaint has been passed to 
me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusion as the investigator.
Ref: DRN89980793Firstly it is important to clarify a few points.  Mr L has throughout this complaint, and indeed  it 
would appear  the trigger  for this complaint, compared the performance of what  would have 
been his Prudential bond had he retained it against the performance of the CoFunds 
investment. In my view, generally its of no use to compare such  things. When an investor 
gets advice, providing  the advice is suitable and set up correctly in line with the investors 
circumstances then as the adviser  cant predict the future it has to be taken  on faith that the 
adviser had the best intentions in advising the way they did. By comparing the two funds  
obviously there is the benefit  of hindsight and I am aware that there is an element of that in 
this complaint.
However, this is, of course, predicated on the adviser making  a suitable recommendation. I 
appreciate that performance forms the basis of this complaint, however considering  the 
suitability of the recommendations Mr L received is of use here and scrutinising  whether the 
advice was suitable is the right thing to do in this specific  case.
So, to be clear, I havent considered the performance of the investments involved when 
making my findings. I have just looked  at whether it was right for Mr L, at the two points in 
time, to be advised in the way that he was, taking account of his personal  and financial 
circumstances at both points in time.
Mr L was unhappy  in 2007 with his existing AXA bond and was looking for a way to get more 
growth from his invested monies. The fund fact sheets for the AXA bond and for the 
Standard Life Distribution Bond, which Mr L was recommended,  are not available  so this 
does make things difficult. However,  having researched both investments as much as I can, I 
am satisfied  that they both had a very similar  asset  allocation and distribution of funds from 
equities through to fixed interests.  I dont  think this type of fund allocation was unsuitable for 
Mr L because I think the risk exposure  was largely in line with what he could tolerate. 
However, given the similarities between both investments, I can see no reason why the 
adviser made the recommendation. Mr L was unhappy with the performance  of the AXA 
bond so why recommend Mr L a different investment which  largely replicated the bond he 
was unhappy  with. I cant see how this would improve the performance of Mr Ls money. I 
therefore think the adviser recommended  this investment unnecessarily and this didnt 
benefit Mr L at all.
I do however think Mr L would have moved  his monies from the AXA bond but a suitable  
recommendation would have been for him to move  to something  with a slightly  different 
asset allocation  to see whether more growth could be achieved.
Turning now to the advice given to Mr L in 2010,  again I dont  think this recommendation 
was made  in Mr Ls best interests. Mr L was three  years older at this point in time, in his 
seventies. I know Mr L had an element of experience at this stage as an investor  but it cant  
be forgotten that given his age and his financial position it was still important for Mr L to 
avoid higher than suitable  levels of risk with his investments and important  for him to be 
given the right advice  taking  account of his personal and financial circumstances at the time. 
There is nothing wrong with Mr L wanting  to continue to make  some growth on his invested 
funds, however, it must also be taken into consideration that had he made  significant  losses 
on those investments he was not in a position to make those losses  up because he was no 
longer working  or in receipt of a salaried  income.  So being exposed  to higher levels of risk 
than could be tolerated was detrimental  to Mr L. Given this, I think  the advice Mr L was given 
in 2010 exposed him to more risk than was suitable  for him. The Prudential  bond, in my 
view, was more  towards  the lower end of the risk spectrum with assets  ranging  from fixed 
interest and equites.  The fund included  some overseas equites but the amounts were quite 
Ref: DRN89980794small. However the CoFunds  portfolio  as a whole edged more towards the medium end of 
the risk spectrum, containing more overseas equities and global market assets. And I think  
was not suitable for someone in Mr Ls positon.  
In addition to this, I also am not convinced that the recommendation to encash the Prudential  
bond and invest  into the CoFunds portfolio was justified or in Mr Ls best interests.  Mr L has 
said he was happy  with the performance of the Prudential  bond and when he met with the 
adviser it was the Standard Life Distribution bond that he had taken three years earlier that 
he wanted to discuss. I know Skipton has doubted  that Mr L was happy with the Prudential 
bond but I have no reason to question  this especially having examined everything Mr L has 
submitted in the course of making this complaint. I think what  he has said about this is 
credible. However,  in any event, even if this wasnt the case, as I have mentioned above I 
think the advice  to invest into the CoFunds portfolio was unsuitable from a risk perspective.
I appreciate Mr L would have incurred an exit charge if he had surrendered  the Standard Life 
bond so I understand why it wasnt touched. But I see no reason why the adviser focused on 
the Prudential  Bond. Whether there is evidence supporting Mr L was unhappy with the bond 
or not, from a suitability  perspective,  which is what I am concerned  with, I see no reason why 
this bond should have  been encashed and the monies reinvested into something I think  was 
unsuitable.
In summary  therefore, in my view the Standard Life Bond was an unnecessary move for 
Mr L. It had the same  type of asset allocation so I see no benefit in the adviser making  this 
recommendation. I do, however, think Mr L would  have reinvested elsewhere  because he 
was unhappy  with the previous bond  that was encashed  to facilitate the Standard Life Bond.
With regards to the Prudential Bond I think the advice  was unsuitable because it exposed  
Mr L to more levels of risk than were  suitable for him. And I think there was an element of 
churning on the part of the adviser because the advice didnt meet  Mr Ls needs  and 
objectives and just didnt seem necessary. So because of this, I think  Mr L should not have 
been advised to encash the Prudential Bond. Therefore,  it follows that he would have kept 
the Prudential  Bond in place. However, having  said that I cant say Mr L would  have kept the 
Prudential Bond in place  for ever because  firstly he did encash a few years later.  And also,  
as evidenced  throughout this decision, Mr L didnt  shy away  from scrutinising  the 
performance of his investments and was open  to moving them  if he wanted. Therefore I 
thinks its reasonable to use the end date for the Prudential bond as the date he encashed 
all of his holdings with Skipton and moved  all of his investments away from it.
what Skipton Financial Services  Limited must do to put things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr L 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr L would have invested  differently.  For the advice in 2007  it is not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done  differently. But I am satisfied that what  I 
have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ls circumstances and objectives when 
he invested. For the advice in 2010 the redress methodology is set out clearly  below.
what should  Skipton do?
Ref: DRN89980795To compensate Mr L fairly, Skipton must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ls investments  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment.
Skipton should also pay interest as set out below.
 Pay to Mr L £150 for worry and distress Skiptons actions has caused to him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  date) additional interest
Standard Life 
Distribution 
Bondsurrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE  UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple per year 
on any loss from 
the end date to the 
date of settlement
Cofunds 
Portfolio unit 
trust/OEICsurrenderedthe rate of 
interest Mr L 
was receiving 
while
in the 
Prudential
Bonddate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple per year 
on any loss from 
the end date to the 
date of settlement
Cofunds 
Portfolio ISAsurrenderedthe rate of 
interest Mr L 
was receiving 
while
in the 
Prudential
Bonddate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple per year 
on any loss from 
the end date to the 
date of settlement
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
Ref: DRN89980796This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Skipton should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, Iwill accept if 
Skipton totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead  of deducting 
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr L wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mr Ls risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr L into that position. It does not mean that Mr L 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker fund.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr L could  have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Skipton  Financial Services  Ltd should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
Skipton Financial Services Ltd should  provide details of its calculation to Mr L in a clear,  
simple format.
Ref: DRN89980797Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8998079