K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the pension policy he held with Scottish Equitable  Plc (trading as 
Aegon). Mr W says:
Hes unhappy Aegon are neither  providing his annuity nor agreeing to guarantee its 
payment. His agreement was with Aegon, but he was compelled  to take the annuity  
with Legal and General (L&G)  as the only way to secure his guaranteed  annuity rate 
(GAR).
He feels he was given  confusing and incorrect information about the respective 
obligations of Aegon  and L&G in relation to his annuity.
He feels the relationship between Aegon and L&G delayed the start of his annuity 
and means his estate  will lose out on a years  income if he were  to pass away  
between 29 March  and 17 April in any given year.
He thinks the introducers fee L&G paid Aegon was effectively a backhander, and 
this should either be put towards  his pension or paid to him as a lump  sum. Aegon 
shouldnt be allowed to receive this money as a result of its failure  to provide his 
annuity. 
background
Mr W took out a personal pension policy  with Scottish Equitable in 1987,  which  contained a 
GAR. This meant that upon retirement Mr W would have a known amount of income based 
on the size of his fund.  The percentage rate of the GAR would  depend upon  Mr Ws age 
when he took his benefits, and this was all laid out in the original terms and conditions of the 
plan. 
Mr W contacted  Aegon in October 2017  about his approaching  retirement. Aegon  responded 
enclosing an illustration  of what his pension could be. Aegon  also explained that as it no 
longer provided  annuities,  the pension would be paid by L&G.  
Mr W subsequently received a further  illustration based on him taking his pension with effect 
from 31 March 2018. He took his benefits in April 2018, with a pension  of £39,102 paid 
annually in arrears  and a further tax free lump sum. 
Mr W raised his concerns with Aegon  about  his pension and its relationship with L&G, which  
Aegon decided  to treat as a formal complaint. But Aegon didnt uphold the complaint and 
Mr W then referred  it to us. 
An adjudicator looked into Mr Ws complaint,  but didnt think  it should  succeed. He thought 
L&G had provided  Mr Ws annuity in line with the GAR tables set out in the original policy 
contract, and so there  had been no loss. He also thought  Mr Ws concerns about L&G being 
unable to pay his pension in the future  were  unfounded, because the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) guaranteed 100% of pensions  in payment. 
The adjudicator also said that the introducers fee hadnt affected Mr Ws pension  or reduced 
it in any way. Finally, he noted  there was no evidence that L&G had caused any undue  delay 
in setting up the annuity or that this delay would cause a loss in the event  of Mr Ws death.
Mr W disagreed  with some of the adjudicators  findings. In response,  he said:
Ref: DRN88277432He obtained  a quote for his annuity  to start on 31 March  2018, and accepted  it by 
that date. So Aegon  is obliged to pay an annuity  on 31 March each year. This 
wouldnt have been a problem if Aegon was still responsible for paying the annuity. 
Quite clearly, the annuity he has with L&G is not the same  as the one Aegon were  
legally obliged to provide according to the pension  contract.
The start date for his annuity was 17 April 2018,  which wasnt  the date he selected. 
The impact is that his estate will lose out if he dies between 31 March and 17 April in 
any year.  
If Aegon  chose to leave the annuity  market, as it did, it was obliged  to do so in a way 
that ensures its legal obligations to its customers are met.  
He has been  disadvantaged because  the annuity isnt being paid in the same way by 
L&G as if it had been if Scottish  Equitable  or Aegon had provided the annuity. 
He still thinks Aegon  gave him inaccurate  information about the transfer of its annuity 
business to L&G.  He was given a clear indication by Aegon  that it had transferred his 
policy to L&G, when  this wasnt  correct. It was only pensions which  were  in payment 
that were transferred.
He thinks Aegon  has improperly received an introducers fee from L&G,  and profited 
by doing so, by a clear breach of its obligations.  
The adjudicator  had said that the fee was part of a commercially  determined 
agreement between  Aegon  and L&G. Theres no evidence  to support  the assumption  
that payment  of the fee hasnt  affected his annuity  in any way. The fee was directly  
proportional with the size of the pension fund.     
The adjudicator felt hed addressed all these issues. As the matter  remains unresolved, it the 
complaint has been passed to me for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many of Mr Ws recent comments relate  to his concern that his pension started later than it 
would have done had Aegon remained liable for payment rather  than this being  taken over 
L&G. So I have first considered this point.
As an initial point, I think Aegon was entitled  to take a commercial  decision not to continue to 
provide annuities. But as it was administering  policies such  as Mr Ws which contained GAR, 
it had an obligation  to ensure such customers werent disadvantaged by this decision. 
Aegon entered into an arrangement whereby L&G would provide the same level of annuity to 
customers with GAR  policies as if they had been paid by Aegon. That is, L&G would apply 
the same  annuity  rates  as set out in the individual customers  policies. So this meant that 
these customers wouldnt lose out. 
But Mr Ws complaint concerns his view that the start of his pension has been delayed 
because of L&Gs involvement. 
I appreciate Mr W thinks that once he elected  to take his pension  this should have started 
straight away. But there is inevitably a process  that needs to be followed for this to happen. 
For instance, the need to establish Mr Ws identity and ensure he was happy to go ahead. 
On the whole, I dont  think  the time it took to start his pension was unduly long. And Ive not 
Ref: DRN88277433seen compelling  evidence the process would have been quicker had Aegon still been acting 
as the annuity provider.  
Mr W has referred to the illustration he received which was based on a start date of 31 
March 2018 for his pension. He says that as he agreed to take his pension in line with the 
illustration, this should have been the date it started in practice.   
But the illustration  only said it was assuming a start date of 31 March for the pension.  This 
was intended  to give Mr W a reasonable idea of what  he could receive  it didnt form the 
basis of any contract between him and either  Aegon  or L&G.  For instance,  Aegon wouldnt 
have been bound by the illustration if Mr W had taken  a few weeks before deciding to go 
ahead. 
Im also mindful that Mr W doesnt  seem  to suggest he has been  caused a loss by what he 
regards as the delay. Instead, he argues there  may be a loss to his estate  if he were to die at 
some point in the future during the corresponding period during which  his pension was being 
set up. 
I should firstly say that this is a hypothetical  set of circumstances,  and there is no way of 
knowing if this will come about. But in any event, as Mr W accepts, any such  loss would be 
to his estate, not to Mr W personally. He has brought  this complaint about Aegon  to us in his 
personal capacity. So I can only consider  any loss he has been caused. If in the future his 
executors think Aegons acts or omissions have caused a loss to Mr Ws estate,  they will 
have to pursue  such a complaint at that time. 
Mr W has also complained about the introducers fee L&G paid Aegon  when  his pension was 
set up. He suggests this has been to his detriment, and has in some  way reduced his 
pension benefits.  I disagree.
Whatever the arrangement was between Aegon and L&G, this was based  on a commercial 
decision and therefore not something in which this service would normally interfere. But its 
also clear that the payment has had no impact  on Mr Ws pension  benefits. The GAR for a 
man his age at retirement was £118  for every £1,000  of the fund value. After  taking his tax 
free cash, a fund of £331,381.01 was available to purchase the annuity. If the above GAR is 
applied to this sum,  the resulting annuity  is £39,102.96  which is the pension Mr W is 
receiving. So it can be seen theres  been  no reduction in his benefits because  of the 
introducers fee. All his pension  fund has been  used to provide the annuity.  Therefore, Im 
satisfied Mr W isnt entitled to any further  money from either Aegon or L&G. 
Mr W says the information Aegon gave him about  the transfer of part of its business to L&G 
was incorrect and inaccurate. I dont agree, although its possible Aegon could have been  a 
little clearer that it was pensions in payment that had been  transferred, rather  than live 
pension policies. But I cant  see that this has caused Mr W any actual financial loss.  
I understand that while Mr W was initially concerned about receiving his pension  in the 
future, he now accepts  that should L&G be unable to meet  its commitments  to him, then 
FSCS will ensure his pension will still be paid in full. 
Ref: DRN88277434my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8827743