K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC incorrectly turned down a claim
he made on his mechanical  breakdown insurance policy.
background
Mr Hs car broke down and it was recovered to a garage to investigate  the fault. The garage
said the timing chain was damaged and needed replacing. Because of this they called
Amtrust who reviewed Mr Hs claim and rejected it. They said the timing chain had stretched
so hadnt suffered a mechanical  fault as defined in the policy.  Amtrust  said this was because
the timing chain had stretched through normal use and the policy didnt  cover  wear and tear.
Mr H disagreed and complained. He said the timing  chain  had failed and needed replacing
before his car would  work. He said the policy specifically included timing  chains  so his claim
should be covered.  Amtrust looked  into Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold  it. As Mr H
disagreed, he brought his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 November 2019 on this complaint where  I said:
Mr Hs policy  covers him for almost  all the original manufacturers mechanical and electrical
components against  total failure.  Except those which  are specifically excluded. It defines
mechanical breakdown  as The actual breakage of a mechanical component or the complete
failure of an electrical  component not by wear and tear, normal deterioration or negligence.
We are not liable for parts that have reached  the end of their normal working lives because
of age or usage.
The repairing  garage said the timing chain had stretched which caused it to jump.  As its
stretched the garage said it needs replacing for Mr Hs car to work.  Amtrust said because  the
timing chain stretched  it must have reached  the end of its working  life. They  also said as it
hadnt broken  it wasnt covered.
I understand the chain hasnt snapped  but I dont think that means it isnt broken. When  you
consider the ordinary every day meaning of broken or actual breakage, it means that
something isnt working properly. As the timing chain has stretched, no longer  works and
needs replacing, Im satisfied it meets the policy definition of mechanical breakdown. Ive
therefore looked at whether the timing chain has reached the end of its normal  working life.
Amtrust havent said what the normal working  life of a timing chain is. While this chain may
have stretched causing it to fail, Im not persuaded its fair to rely on this term if the part has
failed prematurely. The repair invoice shows Mr Hs car was just over 5 years old and had
covered 76,000 miles when the chain  failed. The manufacturers guidelines dont say what
the normal working life of a timing chain is or recommend changing  it on a car of similar age
and mileage to Mr Hs. Just that its supposed  to last the life of the car. Because of this Im
not persuaded this timing chain has reached the end of its normal  working  life. Im therefore
satisfied that its not fair and reasonable for Amtrust  to rely on this term to turn down Mr Hs
claim.
As Amtrust  rejected Mr Hs claim he paid the repairing garage around  £2,000  for the repairs.
Amtrust should re-consider Mr Hs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and if a cash
settlement is made Amtrust should compensate  Mr H for not having  the money. To do this
Amtrust should add 8% simple interest  per year to any cash settlement from the date Mr H
Ref: DRN83887472paid it until the date Amtrust pays the claim.
Mr H responded and accepted my provisional decision. Amtrust  responded and didnt accept 
it. Amtrust said as the chain had stretched there  would be rattling  noise prior to failure, so 
there would be an element of drive on damage. They also said timing chains dont have a 
recommended mileage replacement and that a stretched chain is only the result of wear and 
tear to the chain links. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust have now said there  would  be an element  of drive  on damage due to the chain 
stretching but hasnt  provided anything to support  this or explained how this may affect 
Mr Hs claim.  The repair invoice Mr H provided  only shows a repair for the timing chain, I 
therefore dont  agree there is drive on damage here. 
Im also not persuaded by Amtrusts points about  wear and tear. Its not disputed  that the 
chain has worn, they key point here is  whether its reached the end of its normal working 
life. And as Amtrust havent shown this chain has reached the end of its expected  normal 
working Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I uphold this complaint. 
Amtrust International  Underwriters DAC need  to re-consider  Mr Hs claim, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions. If a cash settlement  is made Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC should also add 8% simple interest per year to the amount they pay, 
calculated from the date Mr H paid for repairs  until the date they make payment1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Amtrust International  Underwriters DAC considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from the interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken  off. It should also give   
Mr H a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8388747