K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains about the advice he was given by BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd 
(BlackStar) to transfer his pension plans into a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) and 
invest the proceeds in an unregulated product.
background
In March 2014, Mr O was referred  to BlackStar  by a third party,  Return On Capital Group 
(ROC), as he wanted to have his pension provision  reviewed. He held two personal  pension 
plans, with a combined  transfer value of just over £20,000.
BlackStar advised Mr O to transfer  both plans into a SIPP and invest £16,000 in Colonial 
Capital Corporate  Bonds.
Mr O complained to BlackStar  through  his representative in August 2017.  It said BlackStar 
hadnt followed the regulators Conduct  of Business  (COBS) rules when advising Mr O. This 
had led to him transferring his pensions and investing in a high risk unregulated  investment 
product. 
BlackStar rejected  the complaint in a lengthy  final response letter. In brief, BlackStar said:
Mr O originally contacted BlackStar to receive advice on specific  matters. This was 
for the construction  of an investment  portfolio, recommendation of a suitable pension  
provider and possible transfer from existing pension schemes.
Mr O had already completed an application to purchase Colonial Capital Corporate 
Bonds, which  showed his intention to make this investment. BlackStar  was required 
to take this into account when formulating  its advice.
Mr O had confirmed he wanted to be more in control of his investments. This is 
clearly why hed shown an interest  in the Colonial Capital investment. 
Mr O was deemed to be a medium high-risk investor, and he agreed with this 
assessment.
BlackStar issued a suitability report which fully disclosed his risk profile,  as well as 
the advantages and disadvantages of the chosen SIPP  and the Colonial Capital 
investment. 
Had Mr O wished to take a more holistic approach to his advice requirements (which 
was available  to him), BlackStar may have suggested an entirely different 
investment. 
One of the FCAs principles of good  regulation is that consumers should take 
responsibility for their decisions. Mr O was introduced to BlackStar with a set of 
circumstances on which  he wanted  advice. He had a pre-determined objective to 
invest in Colonial  Capital. BlackStar  was required to take this into account, or the 
advice would be deemed  unsuitable.  
Mr O remained  dissatisfied and referred  his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  succeed. While Mr O had been  introduced  by 
ROC, the adjudicator  thought BlackStar  was responsible for the advice.  He said Mr Os 
existing pension plans  were low-cost products compared to the SIPP. He also considered  it 
was unsuitable  for most of the pension fund to be invested in Colonial Capital, as this was 
too high risk for Mr O. The adjudicator said Mr O should be compensated by comparing the 
current value of his SIPP with the notional  values of his previous plans had they not been 
Ref: DRN87061322transferred. BlackStar  should also pay Mr O £300 for the trouble and upset hed been 
caused. 
BlackStar didnt accept the adjudicators  view and said there were a number of points it 
wished to raise. In summary, BlackStar said:
Mr O contacted BlackStar after deciding he required advice in relation to a specific  
investment strategy. As required by COBS 4.7.8, Mr O was required to obtain advice 
on the suitability  of a non-readily realisable  security (NRRS).
Its clear Mr O had met with ROC in March 2014,  and had discussed investing  in 
Colonial Capital. Hed completed  the Colonial Capital application form before 
receiving advice  from BlackStar. 
Mr O required  advice which included the suitability of the Colonial Capital investment 
as this was an NRRS. To have ignored this would  have not only rendered the advice 
incomplete, but also not met with the requirements of COBS 4.7.8. 
The suitability report BlackStar  issued said the Colonial Capital investment was 
suitable for Mr O, taking account of all his circumstances, including  his attitude to risk 
and capacity for loss. Its also clear  that the risks involved  in the investment strategy  
were discussed. 
The adjudicator  has suggested that BlackStar should have simply refused to carry 
out such a transaction. But this would have contravened its obligation to treat Mr O 
fairly and in his best interests.  To have refused to provide him advice would have 
been detrimental to his position  and left him without advice. 
The adjudicator  also says it would have been possible to treat Mr O as an insistent  
customer. But Mr O approached BlackStar  requiring the inclusion  of Colonial Capital 
as required by COBS  4.7.8. 
Also, while the adjudicator suggested that BlackStars advice was based on 
information provided by ROC, it was in fact Mr O who completed and signed the 
factfind containing  his circumstances. COBS 9.2.5 states that a firm is entitled to rely 
on information provided by its clients unless its aware the information  is manifestly  
out of date or incorrect. 
It was confirmed with Mr O that he was a medium  high-risk investor, and he agreed  
this was accurate.  BlackStar said the adjudicator had gone  against the evidence in 
questioning this. 
Mr Os existing pension plans were  invested  in funds which  were  inappropriate  for his 
attitude to risk. It wasnt possible to change  the funds within these plans. While there  
were exit charges  from the existing plans, these  were  charges that would anyway 
have been made on the initial unit elements in the plans.  
Its been recognised  In previous  decisions made by this service that a financial 
business cant be held responsible  if its clear  the client would have proceeded with 
an investment regardless  of the advice. 
BlackStar was aware of the high risk nature of the investment, and this was 
discussed with Mr O and explained to him. The suitability report also contained 
extensive risk warnings. The report also contained  many reasons why not investing 
was also appropriate.  If Mr O was in any doubt about going ahead, he was provided 
with adequate details of the risks involved.  
The matter  has now been passed to me for consideration. 
Ref: DRN87061323my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BlackStar says it was approached by Mr O. I dont think thats a fully accurate description  of 
the circumstances. It seems clear Mr O was introduced to the concept of investing in 
Colonial Capital by ROC. But ROC wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and 
so wasnt authorised to give financial advice. It therefore referred  Mr O to BlackStar. 
I note that among the documents ROC sent BlackStar was one confirming  it hadnt  given 
Mr O any advice. And I think BlackStar would have  known  that ROC wasnt authorised  to do 
so. As such, the purpose of the introduction was for BlackStar to give Mr O financial advice. 
So the crux of this complaint is whether BlackStar gave Mr O suitable advice. 
I appreciate Mr O had completed  a Colonial Capital US Housing Bond application form on 14 
March 2014. But this was sent to BlackStar  by ROC along with the other documents relating 
to Mr O. So while this document shows Mr O had showed an interest  in making  this 
investment, Ive not seen evidence he was irrevocably committed to doing so at the time he 
was referred to BlackStar. So there  was still the opportunity of changing to a different 
investment strategy. I also note BlackStar accepted, within  the suitability report, that it had 
an obligation  to assess the suitability of the investment for Mr O. 
BlackStar carried out an assessment of Mr Os attitude to risk, and categorised  him as a 
medium high-risk investor. Ive note BlackStars  comments about this, but Im not convinced  
this was an accurate  assessment of Mr Os views. 
Ive reviewed the investment risk assessment questionnaire Mr O completed.  I note that on 
two occasions  he confirms he wishes to take a moderate degree  of risk. I also accept that 
some of his other answers indicate he may wish to take a higher level of risk. But taken 
overall, Im not convinced  Mr O was truly a medium high-risk investor. 
I also think such a risk profile seems very much at odds  with his investment history.  Hes not 
recorded as having any investments apart from his two pension plans. He only had £4,000 in 
savings, presumably in a deposit-type account.  His two pension plans were  invested in with-
profits funds, which are generally regard as representing a low degree of risk. So theres no 
evidence of Mr O taking  a significant risk previously.   
BlackStar sent Mr O its suitability report in April 2014. In summary, it recommended that he 
should transfer his pension plans  into a SIPP and invest £16,000  in Colonial Capital 
Corporate Bonds.  
I note among Mr Os objectives listed in the report were a wish to make  more aggressive 
investments that might  be held in his current pension plans and to have a less volatile 
pension portfolio. But taking a more  aggressive approach to investing will typically  mean an 
increase, not reduction, in volatility. Further, the with-profits funds he was already invested in 
would tent to show a low level of volatility. I think this is an indication that Mr O didnt  fully 
appreciate the risks involved with investing in Colonial Capital. 
The report  explained  that Colonial Capital Group  plc were a company that specialised in 
buying distressed  property in the USA,  renovating  the property and then letting it out or 
selling it to create an income stream. It said it should  be noted that economic conditions in 
Ref: DRN87061324the housing market generally, and specifically in the USA, would have a significant bearing  
on the profitability  of the investment. 
The report  also listed a number of risks involved with this class  of investment, including:
it was a high risk investment and theres a possibility he could lose all his money;
Colonial Capital isnt authorised by the FCA;
projected property values and rents are subject  to many variables and assumptions 
which may not be realised in practice;
the redemption  date of the bonds  is not guaranteed, and if delayed  may impact on 
Mr Os ability  to take his pension benefits.
But although  the risks were  set out in the report, this didnt  take away  from BlackStars  
obligation to give suitable advice. I dont  think this was a suitable  investment for Mr O, and 
as such he should  have been advised not to invest. 
Ive explained  above that I dont think Mr O was a medium high-risk investor. But even if this 
may have  been  correct,  I dont think the advice  was suitable in any event.
As noted above,  Mr Os total pension provision was just over £20,000. While he was still 
around 20 years away from retirement,  its not clear that he had much  scope for increasing 
this. As such, I think preserving his pension fund ought to have been a major consideration. 
Im not convinced he had much capacity for loss as far as his pension  was concerned. 
Mr O was in fact advised to invest the majority  of his fund in Colonial Capital. I think  this 
would have required a fairly high appetite for risk, and wasnt  compatible  with Mr Os 
circumstances.  Also, this meant Mr Os pension fund was almost entirely dependent  on the 
fortunes of this one investment, thus lacking diversity. 
I note BlackStar says that Mr O chose  its specific financial  planning service, which  was 
effectively limited to advising on a possible pension transfer and subsequent investment into 
an alternative fund. It says that if Mr O had chosen  for the advice to be given using a more  
holistic approach, this may have  resulted  in him being advised to take a different 
investment strategy. I dont accept  this argument.  Mr O was entitled  to receive suitable 
advice, even if this was only in respect of part of his financial planning. 
Further, while Mr O may have  been required by COBS 4.8.7, which  deals with the promotion 
of NRRS investments, to receive ad
vice, this didnt  take away  from BlackStars  obligation within the rules to provide suitable  
advice. So it is not a matter of declining  to provide Mr O with advice, as BlackStar seems to 
suggest, but rather that he should have been advised not to invest in Colonial Capital. 
Further, I dont think the rules BlackStar  has referred to obliged  it to recommend the transfer 
and subsequent investment in Colonial Capital. And while BlackStar  says the advice was 
suitable in accordance with COBS 9.2.1 and 9.2.2, I disagree for the reasons Ive explained. 
BlackStar has referred to decisions  which this service  has made where  it was found that the 
consumer would have  proceeded  with an investment anyway, despite the advice  they were 
given. But while I note this point, I must also clarify that each complaint is considered  on its 
individual circumstances.  In this case, its my view that if Mr O had been advised  not to 
invest in Colonial Capital,  he would have  followed that advice. And as the only purpose for 
transferring his existing  pension  plans  was to facilitate the investment, he wouldnt have 
transferred out of his pension plans either. On the whole,  Im satisfied that assuming Mr O 
Ref: DRN87061325would have remained in his existing plans provides a fair and reasonable means of 
calculating his financial loss. Ive explained  this further  below. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr O 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I think that with suitable  advice  Mr O would have  kept his existing pension  plans.  
While its complicated to put Mr O back in the position he would have been  in if suitable 
advice had been given, I think its fair that he is compensated now.  I dont think we should 
wait and determine each and every  possibility before making  an award. What is set out 
below is a fair way of achieving this. 
In summary,  BlackStar should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Os previous pension  plans,  at the date of my 
final decision,  if they had not been transferred to the SIPP.
2.Obtain the transfer value, at date of my final decision, of Mr Os SIPP,  including  any 
outstanding charges.  
3.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Os SIPP so that the transfer value is 
increased by the amount calculated. This payment  should take account of any available 
tax relief and the effect of charges. In addition,  BlackStar should:
4.Pay any future fees owed by Mr O to the SIPP, for the next five years.
5.Pay Mr O £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
I have set out each  point  in further detail below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Os previous pension plans if they had not been  
transferred to the SIPP. That should  be the value at the date of this decision.
BlackStar should ask Mr Os former pension providers to calculate the notional transfer value 
that would  have applied to each  plan as at the date of this decision had he not transferred 
his pensions but instead remained invested. 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen.
BlackStar should assume that any contributions or withdrawals  that have been made would 
still have been  made,  and on the same dates.
2Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of this decision  of Mr Os SIPP, including  any 
outstanding charges.  
Ref: DRN87061326This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. 
3Pay an amount into Mr Os SIPP so that the transfer value is increased  to equal the 
amount calculated in (1-2). This payment  should  take account  of any available  tax 
relief and the effect of charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, BlackStar should pay it as a cash  
sum to Mr O. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would  have provided  a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Os marginal rate of tax in retirement,  
assumed to be 20%. 
4Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had BlackStar given suitable  advice I dont  think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair that 
Mr O continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed. 
Ideally, BlackStar should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr O back in the position he would have been  in. But its not clear  that 
the ownership of the Colonial Capital investment can currently  be transferred. This may 
change at some point, but I dont know when that will be  there are a number of uncertainties. 
So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that BlackStar pays Mr O an upfront lump 
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees), 
or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  This should provide a 
reasonable period for things to be worked  out so the SIPP  can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, BlackStar may ask Mr O to provide an 
undertaking to give it the net amount of any payment  he may receive from the Colonial  
Capital investment in that five-year period, as well as any other payment he may receive  
from any party as a result  of the investment.  That undertaking should allow for the effect  of 
any tax and charges  on the amount he may receive.  BlackStar  will need to meet  any costs in 
drawing up this undertaking.  If it asks Mr O to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded by this decision may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking. 
If, after five years, BlackStar wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking 
for any future payments under the Colonial Capital  investment, it must agree  to pay any 
further future  SIPP fees. If BlackStar  fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr O should then have the 
option of trying to cancel  the Colonial Capital contract to enable the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, BlackStar is entitled  to take, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr O of any claim 
he may have against any third parties  in relation to this pension transfer and Colonial Capital 
investment. If BlackStar chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected  before 
payment of compensation is made. BlackStar must first provide a draft of the assignment to 
Mr O for his consideration  and agreement. 
Ref: DRN870613275Pay Mr O £300 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Mr O has been caused some distress by the loss of his pension benefits. I think  a payment 
of £300 is appropriate compensation for that distress.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd to calculate and pay 
Mr O redress  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8706132