K821x#15Complaint
Mrs G says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs G took out in 2007.
 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.  
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
HSBC had to give Mrs G information about  the PPI that was clear,  fair, and not misleading. 
But I dont think HSBC  gave Mrs G clear  enough information about the policy.
From what  Mrs G has told us, she was employed  in a company where she was related to the 
director in control of that company. Under  the policy terms, this meant she was treated as 
self-employed. And so in order  to claim,  she wouldve had to show that she involuntarily 
ceased trading  because  she couldnt  find enough work to meet her expenses  and had 
declared that to HMRC.
But if she was employed by the company, its unlikely she wouldve ever realistically  been  
able to satisfy those terms, especially if she was made redundant and the company kept on 
trading. So it wouldve  been much harder  for Mrs G to claim for unemployment than she 
mightve reasonably  expected.
I cant see that HSBC highlighted these terms or otherwise made them  clear  to Mrs G during 
her sale.  If it had done, and it had been made clear to her that she would have issues ever 
claiming for unemployment, then I dont think she wouldve bought  this policy. So it follows  
that I think its most likely  that Mrs G has lost out because of what  HSBC did wrong.
Putting things  right
HSBC should  put Mrs G in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.HSBC should  find out how much Mrs G would owe on her credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Ref: DRN87004862HSBC should  then refund the difference between  what Mrs G owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when HSBC works  out what Mrs G would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, HSBC should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mrs G paid.  And it should carry  on paying interest until the point when Mrs G 
wouldve owed HSBC  something on her credit  card.  The interest rate should be 8% 
simple a year.
C.HSBC should  tell Mrs G what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mrs G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8700486