K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a single premium payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001, Mr W took out a 42 month  loan. He also took out a PPI policy  to protect  his 
repayments over the same term. Mr W says he took out the PPI on the phone.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint was passed to me.
Mr W said, in summary,  he didnt  need or want PPI and there was no evidence to show that 
he signed separately to say he wanted  it or was given enough clear information about  PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are the same as those set out on 
our website. And the main questions I need  to consider are:
- If HSBC  gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr Ws needs?
- Did HSBC give Mr W the information  he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr W is worse off as a result.  That is, would  he have done something  different  such as not 
taking out the policy   if there hadnt been  any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr W says HSBC didnt make  it clear that he had a choice about whether to take the PPI. I 
cant be sure what was discussed between Mr W and HSBC, and as its some time since the 
loan and policy were  sold, the original documentation is no longer available.
HSBC has sent us a copy  of the credit agreement  it says it was using around  that time when 
a customer took out a loan. From what weve learnt about HSBCs  sales processes from 
dealing with other cases, after the phone call, the customer wouldve likely been sent 
paperwork like this to sign. Ive looked at the credit agreement and I can see that this makes 
it clear that PPI is an optional and separate extra. From what  Ive seen, the customer  
wouldve been asked  to sign separately  to say they wanted PPI. I havent  heard anything to 
Ref: DRN89032912make me think that HSBC  wasnt following its usual sales process in Mr Ws case. So, I think 
it likely,  that paperwork like wouldve been  used and Mr W wouldve been  made  aware he 
didnt need to take PPI to get the loan. So, I cant fairly uphold his complaint for this reason.
As HSBC recommended  the policy to Mr W this means it had the additional responsibility of 
considering whether PPI was suitable  for him. It also had to give him information about the 
PPI that was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could decide  if it was right for him and 
if he wanted to buy it.  
It doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  for him based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time.  I say this because:
- Mr W was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances  and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- The loan agreement Mr W likely  wouldve been asked  to sign set out what  he would 
need to borrow  to pay for the PPI, and that interest would  be charged on that 
particular bit of the loan. So it seems  likely  that Mr W was made  aware of the overall 
cost and found it acceptable.  And, given his circumstances, I dont think  the policy 
was unaffordable.  
- It doesnt appear that Mr W wouldve been affected by any of the main limitations or 
exclusions of the cover. As he couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered, 
I dont think having more  information  about  these things  wouldve changed his 
decision to take out the policy.
- Mr W said he wouldve got some sick pay from work. The PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of his work benefits, and possibly  for longer. He also said he had an income 
protection policy. Ive considered  this, but note that his other policy  didnt provide 
duplicate protection.  It wouldve paid out for less than 6 months, whereas the PPI 
wouldve potentially covered him for longer. Mr W also said he had some savings, but 
given that he took out a loan rather than using  these, I think he probably wanted  to 
hold on to these  for other purposes. Given Mr Ws circumstances,  I think  the PPI 
couldve provided a useful benefit in his circumstances.
- Mr W wouldnt have got a pro-rata refund if the loan was repaid early, which it was. 
But Ive seen  nothing to suggest that when he took out the loan he thought  he might 
repay it early, so I cant see that Mr W has lost out because of this.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its likely  that he chose to take out the policy  and so appears  to have wanted 
this type of cover. As Ive already said, Mr W was not affected by any of the main exclusions 
or limitations  and the policy seems to have been affordable.  So I think it unlikely  he would 
have made  a different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance, I think  
Mr W would  still have taken out the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Ref: DRN89032913Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8903291