K822xcomplaint
Ms W and Mr F complain that a car that was supplied to them  under a hire purchase 
agreement with The Car Finance Company (2007) Limited wasnt  of satisfactory quality.
background 
A used  car was supplied to Ms W and Mr F under a hire purchase agreement  with the Car 
Finance Company that they signed in March  2016. The car was more than eight years  old 
and had been drive for more than 73,000 miles. Ms W complained to the Car Finance 
Company in July 2016 about  some  issues with the car. The car was returned to the dealer 
for repairs but the dealer  noted that the head  gasket also needed  replacing  and the repairs  
werent completed until late September 2016.  Ms W and Mr F were  provided with a courtesy  
car  but Ms W says that it was too small as they are a family of six and the courtesy car 
only had five seats. Ms W took the car to a different garage for a health check  and some 
routine repairs in January 2017.  The garage said that the gasket needed replacing again 
and its invoice shows the cars mileage as being  79,015. Ms W complained  to the Car 
Finance Company and says that she stopped  using  the car and she left the car with the 
dealer. Ms W wasnt satisfied with the Car Finance  Companys response so complained  to 
this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He believed  that the 
repairs identified in January 2017  show that either the earlier repairs  werent of sufficient 
quality to rectify the problem or that theres  an underlying unidentified issue  causing the 
parts to fail. And he recommended that the Car Finance Company should accept Ms Ws 
rejection of the car and unwind  the agreement. He also said that it should repay her deposit 
and any payments made when she didnt have use of the car and didnt have access to a 
hire car (all with interest)  and that it should  remove all record  of the finance agreement from 
Ms Ws credit file. 
The Car Finance  Company has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. It has responded in detail and says, in summary, that: 
the January  2017 health  check noted faults which  caused  the car to fail an MOT  test 
that month but doesnt show any issues with the car other than those faults  and an oil 
leak  and theres no evidence of an issue with the gasket;
the February 2017 invoice from the garage  notes the replacement  thermostat  in 
relation to the pressure in the cooling system  and that further investigation was 
required which would include possible head removal  but theres no evidence to 
show any relation  to the previously repaired fault; 
theres no evidence  either confirming  the actual cause of the current failure nor that it 
is related to the initial repairs or if the head  failure is a result  of another  part failing 
such as the water  pump  for example, that this was present  or developing at the point 
of sale; 
Ms W confirmed her satisfaction with the repairs in 2016; and
if the faults had been present when the car was supplied to Ms W and Mr F they 
wouldve been aware with the illumination  of warning lights  and the poor running  of 
the car;
and it asks if the car has been serviced  since it was supplied to Ms W and Mr F.
Ref: DRN82429962my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms W 
and Mr F and to the Car Finance Company on 4 March 2019. In my provisional  decision I 
said as follows:
The car that was supplied to Ms W and Mr F in March 2016 was more than eight 
years old and had been  driven  for more  than 73,000 miles. Ms W complained to the 
Car Finance Company  in July 2016  about  some issues  with the car. She returned  the 
car to the dealer for repairs and the dealer  noted that the head gasket also needed 
replacing - but the repairs werent completed until late September  2016.  Ms W and 
Mr F were provided with a courtesy  car  but Ms W says that the courtesy car wasnt 
big enough as they have  a family  of six and the courtesy car only had five seats.
Ms W confirmed to the Car Finance Company  that the repairs had been successful. 
But when she took the car for a health  check in January  2017  some issues were  
identified and the car failed an MOT test. The garage recommended  that the head  
gasket be replaced  again.  Its report says:  Cooling system building up pressure - 
requires further  investigation  possible head removal.
But the head gasket had been replaced in September  2016  only four months 
earlier. I consider it to be more likely than not that either the September 2016  repair 
wasnt completed correctly or that theres  an underlying issue  with the car which  
causes issues with the head gasket.  Ms W says that theyve been able to use the car 
for less than five months since it was supplied to them and the car has only been 
driven for about  6,000 miles in that time. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Ms W and Mr F to reject the car and for their hire purchase agreement  to be 
ended. And I find that the Car Finance Company should refund to Ms W and Mr F 
any deposit that they paid for the car (with  interest).
Ms W and Mr F have  had some use of the car  and they were provided with a 
courtesy car for some  of the time that the car was being repaired. Ms W says that 
they stopped using  the car at the end of March 2017 because  it wasnt safe enough 
to drive and she left the car with the dealer.
Ms W and Mr F have  suffered a loss of use and enjoyment from their car. They  were  
provided with a courtesy car for some of the time that their car was unavailable to 
them  but it was smaller  than their car and only had five seats which couldnt fit their 
family of six. Ms W says that she and Mr F were  without their car for 113 days but 
only had a courtesy car for 79 of those days  and shes provided evidence  from a 
social media account which describes the times that she was without a car. And 
shes also provided receipts for times  that they rented a car because  they needed  a 
car with six seats  including driving overseas for a holiday that theyd booked. Those  
receipts total £1,054.47. 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for the Car Finance Company to reimburse 
Ms W and Mr F for those  car hire costs  (with  interest) and to refund to them the 
equivalent of 34 days of monthly payments  under the agreement  for the times  that 
theyve not been able to use their car but havent been provided  with a courtesy car. 
And I also find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay them £300  to 
compensate them for the loss of use and enjoyment  of their car and the distress and 
inconvenience that theyve been caused  by these  events.
Ref: DRN82429963I understand that Ms W and Mr F stopped making payments under the agreement in 
about March 2017 and that theyve left the car with the dealer. I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for the Car Finance Company  to ensure that no adverse 
information about the hire purchase agreement  is recorded  on either of their credit  
files.
So, subject to any further representations by Ms W and Mr F the Car Finance Company, my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold  this complaint.
Ms W and Mr F and the Car Finance Company have accepted  my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Ms W and Mr W and the Car Finance 
Company have accepted my provisional  decision I see no reason to change  that decision.
my decision
So, for the reasons set out above, my decision  is that I uphold  Ms W and Mr Fs complaint. 
And I order The Car Finance Company (2007) Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and collect the car  both at no cost to Ms W and 
Mr F.
2. Refund to Ms W and Mr F any deposit that they paid for the car.
3. Refund to Ms W and Mr F an amount equivalent to 34 days worth of monthly 
payments. 
4. Reimburse Ms W and Mr F for the car hire costs of £1,054.47 that theyve incurred.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
6. Pay £300 to Ms W and Mr F to compensate them  for the loss of use and enjoyment  
of their car and the distress and inconvenience that theyve been caused by these  
events.
7. Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the agreement  is recorded on either  
Ms Ws or Mr Fs credit  file.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires the Car Finance Company to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 5 above. The Car Finance Company must give Ms W and Mr F 
certificates showing how much tax its deducted  if they ask it for them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82429964
Ref: DRN8242996