K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003. Mr R 
says Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Mr R that he had a choice about  it.
Mr R says he doesnt remember  anything  about PPI being mentioned  during the sale.  But he 
also hasnt given us much other detail about what happened or what was said.
Halifax hasnt been able to send us copies of any of the paperwork from the sale, or anything 
else from the sale which shows Mr R agreed  to take the PPI. But it has sent us examples of 
the forms it says were in use around  the time. And these make it clear  that the PPI is 
optional.
Based on the evidence  I have, and what I understand about Halifaxs  sales practices at the 
time, I think its likely  that Halifax did make it clear to Mr R that he had a choice about the 
PPI. And that Mr R chose  to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr R, so it had to check  that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, Mr R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And the 
policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr R has told us he wouldve been entitled to sick 
pay.
As well as checking it was right for him, Halifax had to give Mr R clear information  about the 
PPI. And its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But a 
mortgage is a serious  financial  commitment, and Mr Rs property couldve been  at risk if hed 
failed to make his repayments. So I think he couldve found the protection the policy offered 
appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr R off taking it out.
Mr R has said he didnt make a claim  when he was hospitalised as he didnt know he had 
the policy. But I dont  think Mr R not knowing he had the policy  at a later date necessarily 
means he wasnt told about it at the sale. And, as Ive explained  above,  based on the 
evidence I have, I think its likely Mr R was made aware of the PPI and given a choice about 
it at the sale.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr R back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Ref: DRN86926022Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr R now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8692602