K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Virgin Money  plc (Virgin)  has removed the 0% promotional  rate on 
her credit card. Shes also unhappy it increased  her credit limit without her consent and kept 
changing the statement and payment due date. 
background
Miss Ws credit card statement was generated on 17 January 2019 and required her to make  
a minimum payment of £25 by 6 February 2019.  But Miss W didnt make  a payment until two 
days later  on 8 February. This was done  using a debit card.  It took a couple  of days  to 
clear and was posted on her account on 10 February. As Miss Ws payment wasnt received 
by the due date,  Virgin  removed the 0% promotional rate that she had been  offered. It also 
added interest on the outstanding balance for this period on her next statement.
Miss W complained to Virgin saying the text message she received from it said the payment 
was due on 8 February.  This is the date she made  the payment. So she said Virgin knew  
shed made  the payment even if it claimed it wasnt received until two days  later. She wants  
the promotional  rate reinstated, the interest  refunded and her credit  file amended. Virgin  
didnt uphold  Miss Ws complaint and explained  her statement confirmed the due date. It 
also highlighted the terms and conditions which state it will remove any promotional offers if 
a payment isnt received by the due date. 
Unhappy with this, Miss W got in touch with our service. She explained Virgin kept changing 
the statement  date and payment due date. Miss W also complained that Virgin  had doubled 
her credit limit following this issue but that she hadnt given her permission for it to do so. 
Our investigator concluded the statement dates werent changed  and that the payment date 
was usually the 6th day of the month unless this fell on a non-working day, in which case  it 
moved to the next working  day. She was satisfied the due date was 8 February and that 
Miss Ws payment didnt reach Virgin by this date. So according to its terms and conditions  
Virgin was able to remove the promotional rate and apply interest. Our investigator also 
explained the terms allowed Virgin to review Miss Ws account  and offer an increase  to her 
credit limit. She pointed  out that Virgin had given Miss W the choice to opt-out  if she didnt 
want a higher limit. And that Miss W would need to contact Virgin directly to do this.
But Miss W didnt accept  the investigators  findings and so the complaint has come to me for 
a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
While it may come as a disappointment  to Miss W, I dont uphold  this complaint - Ill explain 
why.
The matter  Im being asked to consider  here is whether Virgin has acted fairly in removing 
the promotional  rate and increasing the credit limit. And the starting point here is the 
agreement between Miss W and Virgin; the terms and conditions  of the credit card. 
Section 7 relates to how interest  is charged on the credit  card.  
Ref: DRN85994022Specifically, section 7.7 states:
If we do not receive  the Minimum Payment  when it is due or you go over your credit  limit, 
we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect  from the start of the statement period. When  
a promotional rate ends  or is withdrawn, we charge the current  standard interest  rate that 
applies to that transaction.
Ive carefully considered  the information  provided on Miss Ws credit card statement dated 
17 January 2019.   On page one it says,  Please pay at least  the minimum payment of 
£25.00 by 06/02/2019.  The minimum payment amount and the payment due date are also 
clearly highlighted  on this page under the Your credit card account  at a glance section. 
Additionally, page four provides further  information  about promotional interest rates.  It says,  
If we do not receive  the Minimum Payment  when it is due or you go over your credit  limit, 
we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect  from the start of that statement period.
The statement  is correctly addressed to Miss W. I think its most likely it was sent and theres 
nothing to suggest she didnt receive it. I can see Miss W didnt  make  a payment of £35 until 
8 February  two days after the due date. As Virgin didnt receive at least the minimum 
payment from Miss W by the due date, Im satisfied the terms of the agreement were  
breached. I think the terms and conditions made  it clear that the promotional rate would be 
removed, and interest charged, in this event. So I dont think Virgin acted unfairly by doing 
this. 
Miss W told us she received a text message from Virgin which advised her the due date was 
8 February. Having carefully  reviewed the screenshot of this reminder text message, I note 
that while its dated 8 February,  it doesnt say the payment fell due that day  but simply that 
it was due. So I cant agree that Virgin misled Miss W into thinking the payment was due on 
8 February instead  of 6 February as per her statement.
Ive also considered Miss Ws comments about  Virgin changing the statement and payment 
dates. From what  I can see, the payment due date is 20 days after the date the statement is 
generated. But if the statement date occurs on a weekend or a non-working  day, the 20 days  
are calculated from the first working day after the statement date. This does mean  that the 
payment date can differ from month to month. But in any event, each statement confirms the 
date by which the payment needs to be made.  So, I dont think Virgin has changed the due 
dates or been  misleading with them. 
Miss W has also complained about  Virgin offering her a higher credit limit after removing the 
promotional rate. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account and can see they 
explain how changes to credit limits can take place. Section 4.3 states, We will review your 
account periodically and after assessing your circumstances,  we may increase your credit  
limit. If we do this, we will give you at least 30 days notice. You can tell us if you do not want  
the increase or future increases.
A review of accounts  isnt unusual. An increase in the credit limit is at Virgins commercial 
discretion and isnt something our service  would generally get involved with. But having seen 
the letter Miss W received  from it, Im satisfied Virgin gave her notice to get in touch  with it if 
she didnt want to accept  the higher limit. And Miss W didnt necessarily have to call in order  
to do this. The letter also explained Miss W could change her preference for any future credit 
limit increases. With this in mind, I havent seen anything  to conclude Virgin has acted 
unfairly.
Ref: DRN85994023So, based  on what Ive seen and been told, I dont consider that Virgin  acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by withdrawing the promotional rate or offering an increased credit  limit. I also 
dont conclude that it misled Miss W in relation  to payment due dates.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8599402