K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) changed  his home  
insurance policy terms when it was due for renewal and that the new terms offered were less 
favourable.
background
Mr P insured  his tenanted properties  with LV. In 2013 Mr P made  a storm damage claim 
which LV cash settled. In August 2017 Mr P contacted LV to report  storm damage to his roof 
that had occurred in October  2016. LV declined Mr Ps claim because it didnt think the 
damage was the result  of a storm. 
In September  2017 Mr P received his annual renewal documents. Four days  later LV sent 
Mr P a letter saying that the offer to renew  was withdrawn because the repair work to his 
roof hadnt  been completed  to the necessary standard to prevent further damage. LVs 
underwriters had reviewed Mr Ps storm damage  claim and noted  that the damage was to 
the same  part of the roof as that reported  in 2013.  They were concerned that Mr P hadnt  
carried out the repairs with the cash from the settled 2013 claim and that the property wasnt 
in a good state of repair. So they declined to cover it. 
Mr Ps policy  lapsed but it wasnt until December 2017 that Mr P realised it had. He 
contacted LV and it offered him a new policy for a higher  price.  Mr P initially  agreed to pay 
the higher premium to LV but there were difficulties in making the payment so he set up 
cover elsewhere in the meantime.  
Mr P complained to LV. LV looked into Mr Ps complaint and said its claims team  had 
confirmed that the roof had been repaired and that renewal  couldve been offered. LV 
apologised for withdrawing  the renewal offer before confirming that hed had his roof 
repaired. But it said it no longer offered the old product so it was impossible for it to set it up 
again on its system. It offered him two new policies (one for each of the tenanted flats 
instead of the one old policy that covered the whole building). It also said its policy excess  
was now unfortunately  higher than on Mr Ps old policy - £100 instead  of £50 and £350 for all 
escape of water claims. 
LV said it would credit Mr P for the difference in price between  the 2017  renewal  he had 
been offered and the two new policies. It also said it would pay him compensation of £150 
for its decision to withdraw  his renewal offer and for the time it took to sort the matter out. It 
also said it would pay him for the cancellation/admin fee for cancelling the alternative policy 
along with the cost for the time hed been on cover from the date his policy  shouldve  
renewed with LV until the date he took out the new policies. That came to a further £129.33 
in total. It also offered  a further £100 because the cover  on the new policies was different 
from the old policy. All in all, LV said it would  send Mr P a cheque for £379.33 (£150 + £100 
+ £129.33).
Mr P took out the two new policies offered by LV but remained unhappy  with LVs review of 
his complaint. So he complained to this service.  He said:
he was unhappy  that the policy excess had increased and that there was now a separate  
excess for escape of water claims;
he was also unhappy that he had to have two policies instead of one;
Ref: DRN85752802he felt LVs overall objective had been  to get him on to a new policy with less favourable  
terms because itd decided he hadnt repaired his roof in 2013;
he was unhappy  about the way LV had withdrawn his renewal quote;
that the compensation LV had paid him wasnt enough to compensate  him for the 
increase in the policy excesses;
he wanted his old policy  restored and compensation of £500.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  Mr P 
disagreed with our adjudicators findings so the complaint  was passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr P, I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
LV has apologised to Mr P for the mistakes it made with his renewal. Its admitted that it 
shouldve contacted its claims team (to find out if Mr P had repaired his roof) before  
withdrawing its offer to renew his policy.  If it had done so then the situation in which Mr P 
now finds himself couldve  been  avoided. Unfortunately  it wasnt, so I have  to look at how LV 
has responded to its error. And I think that LV has responded reasonably to the mistakes it 
made. It has admitted it made a mistake, apologised and offered Mr P compensation of 
£150. I think thats a fair amount in the circumstances and in line with awards made by this 
service in similar complaints. 
LV has said that if it couldve  restored  Mr Ps old policy (which I understand is a legacy 
product hed had for about  20 years)  it wouldve done so. But it doesnt  offer that product any 
more. Thats  regrettable  but LV no longer offers  policies with a general  excess  lower  than 
£100. And all its policies  whether new or historic - now have separate  escape of water 
excesses starting at £350. LVs decisions about the policy excesses it wishes  to charge are 
commercial ones. This service doesnt generally  interfere with the commercial  decisions 
taken by insurers. Thats because we arent  the industry regulator  and we can only look at 
complaints on an individual basis. Where we think theres been an act or omission by an 
insurer thats caused financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience  to a consumer then 
we can recommend an award of compensation. 
Whilst I can understand why Mr P is unhappy  about  the increased  policy  excesses and the 
fact he now has to have  two policies (for each of the flats in the building  instead  of one policy  
for the building  as a whole), I cant interfere  in LVs commercial decisions to charge higher 
excesses on its newer  policies or make LV do the impossible and restore  his old policy.  LV 
has offered to pay Mr P further compensation of £100 because the cover on his new policies 
is different from the old one and I think thats  fair in the circumstances. It is also worth 
mentioning that the letter  LV sent Mr P withdrawing its offer to renew his policy  told him why 
it was doing so and invited him to contact  it if he thought it had got it wrong. As his policy had 
about 3 weeks  to go at that point until the renewal date its unclear to me why Mr P didnt 
contact LV and set it right about  the repairs to his roof. 
Ive seen no evidence  that the withdrawal of the old policy and the offer of the two new 
replacement policies was a conscious  attempt by LV to move Mr P on to cover with less 
favourable terms. 
Ref: DRN85752803I also think that LV treated  Mr P fairly  by asking him for details of the cancellation costs 
associated with taking  out cover  elsewhere and offering to pay them.  It was Mr Ps choice  to 
cancel the alternative  cover and take out the two new policies with LV. The only thing LV 
could do in the circumstances was offer a new sales  policy  (with different  cover and different 
policy numbers for the two properties instead of one) and it was Mr Ps decision to accept 
the offer he was made.  I also think that it was fair of LV, in the circumstances, to match the 
difference in price between the cost of the renewal  price hed been offered and the cost of 
the new policies.  
Taking everything into account,  I think that, on balance, the total compensation of £379.33  
offered by LV to Mr P is fair in all the circumstances. Whilst I accept that Mr P was put to 
some inconvenience  when trying to arrange  cover in December 2017, Im unable  to agree 
with him that the compensation award  should be increased. If this complaint had passed 
across my desk  without an offer of compensation having already been  made  its unlikely that 
Id have awarded any more. It isnt in dispute  that there was a mistake made by LV at 
renewal but I cant make  LV reinstate Mr Ps old policy or the terms he had under that policy. 
Its made a commercial decision to change  the terms on which it offers cover which  it has 
applied to all its new home insurance  policies. So Mr P wasnt  treated unreasonably or 
singled out in any way. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8575280