K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about the replacement mobile  phone handset supplied by Assurant General 
Insurance Limited under a mobile  phone  insurance policy.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold this complaint, and I include here an extract from 
my provisional decision:
Mr G has mobile  phone  insurance  linked  to his bank account. In September 2017 he made  
a claim to Assurant because his Apple iPhone  5 had a fault. Assurant replaced it with a 
remanufactured one, which came  with a one year warranty.
In March 2018 Mr G told Assurant the replacement phone  wasnt  working properly. On 
Assurants advice he took it to an Apple approved repairer. The repairer reported that the 
fault appeared to be caused by a non-Apple  display, which Mr G would have to pay to 
replace before it could repair his phone. He complained to Assurant about this, saying hed 
not changed the display.  But Assurant said it had supplied Mr G with an Apple approved 
phone. It had looked at a diagnostic report carried out on the phone, which  it said didnt 
suggest there was any fault. Mr G came to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and contacted Assurant.  It said that either  the 
approved repairer  might  have made an error in the letter it sent to Mr G or that the display 
must have  been  replaced after the replacement phone (supplied to it by Apple) had been  
sent to Mr G. Our investigator thought Assurants response was fair so he didnt uphold  the 
complaint. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked for a review.  He said Assurant had failed to deal properly with 
his claim under the insurance contract and that hed not replaced  the display. He pointed out 
that if hed needed to do that hed have contacted Assurant, as that was the point of the 
insurance. Hed had to replace the phone  himself in March 2018  as it wasnt  working, and 
otherwise hed have been  greatly inconvenienced.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im likely to uphold this 
complaint. 
The policy  covers Mr G against loss, theft, damage  and breakdown (including faults) of his 
mobile phone.  Theres  no dispute  that Assurant was entitled to replace Mr Gs original phone 
with a remanufactured device. 
Mr G says that the replacement phone has had various issues,  but he seems first to have 
contacted Mr G in March 2018  about  a problem with the phones receiver (sound output for 
phone calls).
Assurant has provided evidence that:
It obtained the remanufactured  handset  from Apple  (and Assurant says Apple 
wouldnt have  supplied it with a phone with a non-Apple replacement display).
Ref: DRN80539192The Apple diagnostics  report  run on the phone (dated 18 April 2018)  indicates that 
there werent any faults, in that each  check showed  the phone  had passed.  
Mr G has provided  evidence  from an Apple approved repairer dated 2 May 2018  to say that:
Its engineers had completed the diagnosis of his phone and confirmed the phone 
would be economical  to repair.
It could  offer a repair for less than the cost of a replacement device. 
When it received  Mr Gs iPhone  the reported  issue was caused by a third party  (that 
is, a non-Apple)  display.
It was possible that further parts would be needed to repair the iPhone,  but it couldnt 
confirm this until it had fitted a replacement display  at a cost of £139.
Ive reviewed all the evidence. I think Mr G has done  enough to show that the 
remanufactured replacement handset supplied by Assurant failed during the one-year  
warranty period. The letter  hes supplied says that a repair was needed, the phone was 
economical to repair  but that the repair required the non-Apple display to be replaced.
So Ive considered whether Assurant has shown that the phone  was not, in fact, faulty  or that 
it failed for a reason that Mr G is not covered for under the policy.  Assurant says the 
approved repairer  might  have made a mistake given the diagnostics report its sent. But 
I cant see that Assurant contacted the approved repairer about  the report, to find out why 
the diagnostics  report shows the phone had passed when the repairers letter  said the 
phone needed  a repair. 
The policy allows  Assurant to supply a phone with a non-branded part. It says that the policy  
is provided in addition to any manufacturers warranty.  And if any repairs invalidate  the 
warranty it will repair or replace the phone as necessary during the unexpired  period of the 
manufacturers warranty. 
The evidence is that the phone had a non-Apple display fitted to it. Assurant says its not 
possible this happened  when it supplied the phone, because its shown it came from Apple 
stock with a warranty  (which wouldnt be given for a non-Apple display).  But equally Mr G 
denies he replaced the display. And I can see why hes likely to have contacted  Assurant 
and/or Apple  if the phones display  needed replacement  as that was the reason for the 
insurance in the first place. On balance, I think its unlikely Mr G did replace the phone  
display.
But even if I were to find that Mr G did replace his phone display himself  he was still entitled  
to cover under the insurance  policy.  As Assurant says, the policy is offered in addition  to the 
warranty. So if it couldnt be repaired by Apple  it seems to me Assurant should have asked 
Mr G to send it the phone for repair and/or  replacement. 
Assurant didnt do this, and just said that the diagnostic report it had seen suggested  there 
were no faults. But this directly contradicted the authorised repairers  letters, and so theres 
no context to the report that had been run on 18 April 2018  (around two weeks before the 
authorised repairers  letter). Also, I cant see anything  in the policy  to say that Mr G wont be 
entitled to any cover under the policy if he carries out any repairs  on the phone  himself. 
In all the circumstances, I think Mr G had no real option but to replace his phone,  given that 
it couldnt be repaired without his paying  an additional amount (and then possibly a further  
amount if it needed additional repairs). The insurance policy  didnt offer him the benefit he 
was entitled to, and he needed a working  phone. 
Ref: DRN80539193So having  weighed up all the evidence I think the fair outcome  is for Assurant to pay Mr G 
the amount it would have cost in May 2018 to replace an Apple iPhone 5 (32GB) with a 
remanufactured model. I say this because a further remanufactured phone is what  hed be 
entitled to under the policy terms, where  the replacement had failed. In responding to this 
provisional decision I invite Assurant  to confirm the amount it considers this phone would 
have cost to supply, together with evidence.  Well share this with Mr G before I reach my 
final decision  on this complaint, for his comments. 
Its possible that Assurant  will ask Mr G to return the faulty remanufactured phone to it, given 
Im requiring  it to pay him the cost of replacing  that phone. In responding to this decision 
Assurant should  confirm whether it wants the phone returned. If so, it will need to arrange  for 
Mr G to return the phone but at its own expense.  Equally, Mr G should confirm in response 
to this decision whether  he has the phone and is able to return  it. 
Mr G has said that his bank shouldnt charge him for the packaged bank account because  
of this problem  with Assurant. Hed need  to take that up with his bank, and I make no 
findings on that issue here.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr G responded to say that he did still have the replacement phone  and would return it to 
Assurant at its expense.  
Assurant responded  to say that it didnt  agree  with my provisional  decision. It said:
An Apple  authorised  repairer cant carry out repairs  on a device with non-genuine  
parts, so would replace them first before the repair. But (based on the report  provided 
by the authorised repairer) this doesnt confirm the device is faulty. The repairer said 
it couldnt guarantee further repairs wouldnt be required.
Like phones that Apple  supply to their customers for exchange, Mr Gs phone  was 
sourced directly from Apple and theres no reason why it would include a third partys 
display. Apple wouldnt provide a phone with non-genuine parts.  
Mr G says hes not had the screen  replaced but theres no other  reason  for it to have 
a third party display,  other than the repairer being  mistaken. Mr Gs phone wasnt 
repaired and if hed had the device repaired by anyone other than Assurant, Apple or 
an Apple  approved  repairer the warranty would be void.  
It has reviewed  its historic date for cash  settlements around  the time of Mr Gs claim.  
It doesnt have  records for an iPhone  5 (32GB) but has provided evidence of the 
models which superseded the iPhone 5 from May 2018,  and it valued his model  
phone at £160 in May 2018. In the event of a cash settlement it would require Mr G 
to return the mobile phone and it would process the cash settlement  on receipt. 
Our adjudicator explained to Mr G that Assurant  hadnt accepted my provisional decision. 
But he explained it had suggested any cash settlement would be £160, subject to the 
replacement phone being returned  first. Mr G said he thought  this was a reasonable amount 
provided the return of the replacement phone was at Assurants expense. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought about the points Assurant 
Ref: DRN80539194has made but they dont change my mind.  I still uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive set 
out in my provisional  decision and here.  
I do take the point  that Assurant says it wouldnt have sent Mr G a phone  with a third party 
display because it was supplied from Apple stock. Mr G has a letter from an approved 
repairer saying the phone failed due to a third party display and, on testing, there might be 
further faults, but it wouldnt do any work until the display  was replaced. 
Assurant says Mr G must have replaced the display himself, which would void the warranty.  
The only other explanation is that the assured repairer made a mistake.  But Mr G was very 
clear with Assurant that he hadnt replaced  the display. And Assurant didnt  contact the 
repairer at the time to ask it about the phone or about the test results, which seem to show  
the phone  passed  despite the repairer saying there was a fault with the phone.
Even if Mr G did replace the display himself, and Im not persuaded on balance that he did, 
then Ive not seen anything  from Assurant  to show that it warned Mr G that he would 
invalidate any warranty if he replaced the display or that hed no longer be insured under the 
policy. 
So for these reasons I think the fair outcome is for Assurant to pay Mr G the cash settlement 
it would  have paid in May 2018, based on the cost to it of supplying  him with a phone  of the 
same make and model at that time. Mr G has seen Assurants evidence  and its proposal of 
£160, and he thinks that is a reasonable amount.  I agree,  and its fair that Assurant should 
pay that amount  to Mr G. Assurant says it does want the replacement phone back, and Mr G 
is willing to send it back at Assurants expense. So Ive set out below the arrangements 
Assurant should  make to retrieve  the phone, and to pay the settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and in this final decision,  I uphold this 
complaint. Within 14 days of the date we tell it Mr G accepts this final decision I require 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to contact Mr G to arrange  for him to return the faulty  
replacement phone at Assurants expense; and, within 14 days of receipt of that phone  
Assurant must pay Mr G £160, being  the cash equivalent for replacing his iPhone 5 (32GB), 
based on the price  in May 2018.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8053919