K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them their life 
assurance policy. 
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to only Mr L. 
background
In 1985 Mr L and Mrs L took out a decreasing term life assurance  policy  with a death benefit 
of £30,000 over 25 years for a monthly  premium of around  £10. 
Having more recently read about the mis-sale  of similar policies, in 2018  Mr L complained  to 
RBS. In summary he said:
The policy was mis-sold.
He had to take out the policy to be approved  for his mortgage.
There was very little discussion about the policy at the time of sale.
RBS responded  and said they disagreed the policy had been  mis-sold. They  said there  
would have been a requirement  to have life assurance in place, but it could have been  with 
any provider. 
They said that due to the passage of time there  was very little information  available from the 
sale in 1985. But on balance they felt it was likely  the policy was suitable. 
Being unhappy with this response Mr L approached our service.  One of our investigators 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. She said that there was no evidence that advice 
was given, but even if it were, the policy didnt seem  to be unsuitable.  So she didnt 
recommend that RBS needed to do more.  
Mr L disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So Im not upholding this complaint. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr L, so Id like to explain why.
As the event being complained about took place over 30 years  ago, there  is understandably  
very little paperwork available. This is well beyond the length of time I would expect a 
business to maintain records.
Mr L says he was pressured into taking the policy as he was desperate to get the house they 
were buying  at the time. He says there  was very little discussion about  the policy at the time 
of the sale. He has also provided  some mortgage statements from the late 1990s. These 
show that at that time the outstanding balance was around £20,000. 
Ive considered all of Mr Ls submissions. I understand Mr L wanted his mortgage application 
to progress at the time. But Im not persuaded the recollection of a conversation from so long 
ago is reliable evidence.  RBS have said there was a requirement  to have life assurance at 
Ref: DRN85975512the time as a condition of lending, but that it didnt  necessarily have to be with them. So on 
balance Im not able to fairly conclude that Mr L was told he had to have RBS policy at the 
time. 
There is also no evidence to document that RBS gave advice in relation to the policy.  But 
even if they had, it doesnt seem  that the policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs L at the time. 
It provided a valuable benefit  that in the event that one of them died;  the policy would have  
paid out enough to clear the mortgage. I appreciate Mr Ls comments that £10 per month 
stretched already tight finances at the time,  but on balance I still think the policy was 
suitable. If it was obviously unaffordable, I wouldve expected Mr L to have raised that at the 
time or soon after. 
Taking everything into consideration, there is insufficient evidence  to persuade me that the 
policy was mis-sold. So I wont be directing that RBS need to take any further  action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8597551