K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement  financed by 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited was misrepresented. He also complains  that his account  was 
defaulted and he wants any adverse  information  removed from his credit file.
background 
Mr P told us he decided to acquire this vehicle having seen  an advertisement. He said this 
had described  the vehicle  as being  supplied with a working satellite navigation system (SNS) 
and air conditioning system. And it had been priced at £11,990. He said he contacted the 
dealer, a company Ill call B, and arranged to pay a deposit to secure  the vehicle. The day 
after he said he was informed by the credit broker, a company Ill refer to a C that the price 
had been wrongly quoted and shouldve been £12,990. And that in order to maintain the 
same monthly payments he would need to pay a £2,000 deposit. Mr P says he reluctantly 
agreed to this. But when he got the vehicle back home  he says he found the air conditioning 
didnt work  and there was no SNS installed.
Mr P says he was given the chance to keep  the vehicle or reject it and told Moneybarn he 
wanted to reject it. And that he was then told the agreement would be unwound and the 
vehicle collected.  But he said none of this happened and he was simply told the account had 
been defaulted and the agreement cancelled.
Moneybarn told us that in its final response letter of 10 July 2018 it had advised Mr P that B 
was willing  to install a SNS at no cost to him. It had also offered to review the air conditioning 
system and would consider allowing a repair to be done locally to Mr P. Moneybarn has 
since told us that Mr P hasnt made any payments on the agreement  since May 2018.  And it 
has now defaulted his account and terminated  the agreement.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 November  2019.  I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint as I was satisfied the vehicle was misrepresented  as it was not 
supplied with a SNS as advertised. And I said I thought Moneybarn  shouldve accepted Mr 
Ps rejection of the vehicle.
Neither party has replied  to my provisional decision so I see no need  to alter my conclusions.
My final decision and reasons are set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr P has experienced the disappointment of finding the vehicle he acquired  
didnt meet his expectations.
I need to mention part of Mr Ps complaint which Im not able to deal with in this decision. 
Thats the issue regarding  the pricing  and the deposit. This wasnt  part of the original 
complaint he made to Moneybarn - which simply referred to the issues regarding the SNS 
and air conditioning. Our adjudicator explained that it was open to Mr P to make a separate  
complaint and that remains the case.
Ref: DRN88132562Mr Ps conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. And whilst I dont apply  the law - directly  - I do 
take it into account. Relevant law here includes the Consumer Credit  Act of 1974 (CCA). Of 
particular relevance  to the circumstances of this complaint is section 56 CCA.  Summarised,  
this makes the provider  of finance equally liable for any misrepresentation made  by the 
dealer, in negotiations prior to supply, in relation to the description of the vehicle.
Mr P is alleging the vehicle was misrepresented  as he says it was advertised  as being 
supplied with SNS and working air conditioning. He says this wasnt true. A 
misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into an 
agreement and, as a result of the misrepresentation, to suffer  a loss.
Theres no doubt the advert stated that the vehicle was being  supplied with a SNS. And 
reference is also made to dual zone climate control  (DZCC). I understand that DZCC 
operates similarly to air conditioning but additionally allows for a desired temperature  to be 
maintained regardless  of weather conditions outside the vehicle.  Moneybarn  hasnt disputed 
that the SNS wasnt supplied.  But Ive not seen any independent evidence  that the DZCC 
wasnt working. Although  for the purposes of this complaint I dont think  that affects my 
decision.
Its clear from contact  notes that Moneybarn  has provided that Mr P made his complaint 
within a couple  of days of acquiring  the vehicle. It seems  he contacted C who passed  on the 
complaint to Moneybarn.  Its recorded in these notes that at that time, Mr P indicated to C 
that he wanted a SNS installed  and the air conditioning (DZCC)  fixed.  Moneybarn  wrote to 
Mr P on 1 May 2018  saying it was looking into the complaint.
On 22 May 2018 theres a contact note which records that Mr P wanted to reject  the vehicle. 
And on 23 May a note refers to Moneybarns complaint  handler  leaving a message for Mr P 
which appears to indicate  the broker  is willing to allow him to return the vehicle  or keep it. 
Im not sure whether this is an error and is intended  to refer to B, the dealer. Id not expect a 
credit broker  to be involved with decisions about  whether items are repaired or rejected.
There then seems to have been a sequence  of emails between, Moneybarn, C and Mr P but 
Ive not been supplied  with the details of these contacts. But following  this, Moneybarn 
issued a final response letter (FRL) on 10 July in which it said that B had offered to supply a 
SNS and review the air conditioning (DZCC) problem. Although  it did say the latter might be 
considered a wear  and tear issue. It invited Mr P to contact B to make the necessary 
arrangements.
By this time Mr P seems  to have decided to stop payments and theres  reference  to a failed 
direct debit on 3 July. Subsequently, I can see Moneybarn sent notices of payments due and 
- when these werent made - notices  of arrears. A notice of default was sent in September  
2018 and the account was terminated on 25 October. Since  then Mr P has complained  to 
this service and our adjudicator has, prior to issuing  her view, attempted to assist  the parties 
to resolve the various issues between them.
Its not entirely clear  whats  become of the vehicle. Theres a note from November 2018 
indicating that steps towards  repossession had been  started. And Moneybarn informed us in 
an email of 5 April 2019 that the vehicle had been  repossessed and was with recovery 
agents. This was confirmed by a telephone conversation between  our adjudicator and 
Moneybarns complaint handler on 8 April 2019. However, an email  from Mr P dated  19 July 
2019 puts this in doubt as it describes the vehicle as being  parked and not used.
Ref: DRN88132563There are quite a lot of gaps in the information Ive been given, but Ive got to base my 
decision on that which I do have.  Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation in respect  of 
the SNS as it wasnt fitted in this vehicle. But Ive seen no independent  confirmation  that the 
DZCC system was faulty.
I previously stated the information  suggests that when  Mr P became aware of these  issues 
he initially  indicated he wanted  things to be put right and that Moneybarn agreed to this. But 
Mr P later changed his mind and asked to reject  the vehicle.
There was an offer to supply a SNS but I understand its not possible to retrofit the system 
on this vehicle. So if Mr P was offered a portable SNS system I can see why it wouldnt be a 
satisfactory option. And I doubt if hed have  gone ahead with the deal if hed known the 
vehicle didnt come  with an integrated SNS.
Wheres theres been a misrepresentation  wed normally try to put the aggrieved party back 
to the position theyd  have  been  in but for the misrepresentation. And not the position theyd 
have been in if the (mis)representation had been true. Its not always possible to exactly 
replicate that position and here Mr P has had use of the vehicle. So whilst I think  that due to 
the misrepresentation he should be entitled  to reject the vehicle, its fair he should  have  to 
pay for the period of use. This should take into account the degree  of impairment with the 
vehicle not being as described. Moneybarn offered £30 per month to reflect this and I think 
thats fair and reasonable.
Although there was an ongoing complaint this service wouldnt advise a consumer to stop 
making contractual payments  on an agreement. As Mr P has discovered  this can lead to the 
termination of an agreement and adverse entries on a credit file - which  can create  problems 
in accessing future credit.
In summary,  Im satisfied  the vehicle was misrepresented as it didnt come with the SNS 
which was stated in the advertisement.  Whilst Mr P was initially  willing for this to be rectified 
and a replacement  fitted, he quickly notified  Moneybarn that he wished to reject the vehicle. 
As no suitable replacement had been  fitted  I think  Moneybarn shouldve  accepted  the 
vehicle being  rejected.  Im therefore  intending to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I now require Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  to take the following action in order to fully settle  the 
complaint:
1.Accept Mr Ps rejection of the vehicle;
2.If not already  repossessed - arrange  for the collection of the vehicle  at no cost to Mr P;
3.Refund any cash deposit together with simple  interest at the rate of 8% per year, to be 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN881325644.Recalculate any payments due on the agreement  so that Mr P incurs  no further liability 
after the date of termination. This should include  a reduction  of £30 per month for 
impaired use from the commencement of the agreement to the date of termination 
(pro-rata for a period  of less than one month);  
5.Subject to all payments (after recalculation) having been made, arrange for the details 
of the agreement to be removed from Mr Ps credit  file.
Before issuing a refund (if any is due) Moneybarn may deduct any sums owed on the 
agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8813256