K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Mrs M complain that they were wrongly advised by Charwin Private Clients  Ltd to 
replace their existing joint life and critical illness policies  with a new one when they 
remortgaged in 2012. 
They assumed the new policy included both critical illness and redundancy cover because  
the premiums were similar  to their old policies, and they were given a Statement of 
Demands and Needs referring to critical illness. But it had neither. Unfortunately Mr T was 
diagnosed with cancer in 2016 and they were unable to claim a critical illness  payment.
background
The replacement policies Mr T and Mrs M took out through Charwin  provided  death and 
terminal illness benefits for the decreasing  amount of their mortgage. A monthly benefit for 
Mr T in the event of accident or sickness  was also included, but not critical illness cover. In 
addition to the complaint above they mentioned to Charwin that whilst Mr T had sickness  
benefits from his employer, theyd wanted  the income protection  benefit to start without a 
waiting period as they couldnt  afford to be without an income. 
In defending this complaint, Charwin  relied  on a fact find its adviser completed in 2012,  on 
which Mr T and Mrs M had given details of their existing  policies.  It didnt appear  they 
informed the adviser  on this fact find that their existing policies included critical illness cover.  
And there was a summary  of agreed objectives, where life and income protection were  both 
mentioned  but critical illness  was not. Charwin said that critical illness cover was being  
mentioned on the Statement of Demands and Needs document to highlight  that they were 
not taking it out. And this document also recorded  that Mr T had declined redundancy cover.
One of our investigators  also thought  the complaint shouldnt succeed. She took into account 
Mr T and Mrs Ms recollection that they made the adviser aware  of the importance  of having 
critical illness cover in place, and that they thought the adviser should have reviewed their 
existing policies carefully. But in her view the adviser was entitled to rely on the information
they provided to him when carrying out the fact find. And there was nothing  to corroborate 
that they had a preference for critical illness cover; in fact rather  the opposite. None of the 
documents Mr T and Mrs M received  indicated  that they were  being  recommended,  or had 
taken out, critical illness (or redundancy) cover.
Mr T and Mrs M didnt  agree,  raising  a number  of points. In summary, these were:
-They told the adviser that critical illness  cover was important to them   and that they 
already had this on their existing policies. So they assumed this had been included in 
his recommendations.  
-The Statement of Demands  and Needs didnt make clear  enough  that it hadnt been.  
A solicitor who had helped them prepare their complaint made  the same mistake  they 
initially did when reading this document, in thinking  critical illness  was included.
-Given that they had told the adviser they wanted critical illness  cover, it was 
incumbent upon him to explain to them that he wasnt  recommending it, and why.
At the investigators  request  Mr T and Mrs M provided details of the amount of critical illness  
cover they were able to claim  from one of their original policies (which theyd mistakenly 
forgot to cancel). This showed that the amount  of benefit was £90,500 and not the £30,000 
amount the adviser had recorded  on the fact find. 
Ref: DRN86372882They also provided  details  of their previous mortgage and protection recommendations from 
a former adviser in 2008, which did correctly record the correct amount of the £90,500 cover 
they had with the above provider. It indicated that they strongly  recommended  income 
protection cover for Mr T and life and critical illness cover for both Mr T and Mrs M, but Mr T 
and Mrs M were invited to discuss it further if they wanted to take out additional cover,  which 
Mr T and Mrs M evidently did.
As a result of this new information,  the investigator  wondered whether the lack of a need for 
critical illness cover on the fact find was because  the adviser knew  Mr T and Mrs Ms 
existing policies already included this. She asked Charwin why it didnt seek to replace Mr T 
and Mrs Ms existing policies on a like for like basis (including critical illness cover) in 2012. 
Charwin told the investigator that it routinely discuss[ed] all aspects to protection , and the 
section the investigator  was referring to on the fact find didnt highlight  shortfalls  as such but 
rather whether their discussions had identified a need for cover in that area.  Charwin pointed 
out that it would  have  been only too happy to arrange critical illness  cover  if this had been 
highlighted in the discussions as something  Mr T and Mrs M wanted.
It also mentioned that it preferred to keep  copies of customers existing policies on file. It 
didnt have Mr T and Mrs Ms, suggesting  these  were  never  produced at the time of advice 
(and consistent with why some details werent  accurately recorded). Had it known that it was 
effectively removing an element of existing cover in the replacement policy, it said this would 
be a contentious  issue which  it would have wanted to flag up prominently in the Statement  of 
Demands and Needs.  In this case,  however, it wasnt aware of that.
Having reconsidered  all of the evidence, the investigator remained of the view that there was 
a notable difference between the 2008  adviser  and Charwins recommendations  in that the 
2008 adviser stated  they were recommending critical  illness  cover and Charwin did not. She 
had to take into account that Mr T and Mrs M had also signed the Statement of Demands 
and Needs, and had the opportunity to read the policy schedules  for their policies when they 
were sent to make sure they included everything  they understood they were buying.
Mr T and Mrs M didnt  consider  the investigator  was treating their recollections  of the 
meeting and Charwins with equal  weight,  and highlighted that the way their 2008  adviser  
made their recommendations was much  clearer. They were upset that she used the 
Statement of Demands  and Needs to imply that we were at fault for not reading the 
Charwin letter more  carefully, at a time when  we were understandably in a hurry  to proceed 
and assumed, wrongly as it turned out, that Charwin  would be doing their job properly.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  that this will come  as a 
considerable disappointment to Mr T and Mrs M, but Im not going  to be able to uphold their 
complaint, for similar reasons to the investigator. Ill explain  why.
There isnt a taped recording of Mr T and Mrs Ms meeting with the adviser, so whilst I can 
take both their and Charwins recollections of its advice process into account,  I have  some  
Ref: DRN86372883difficulty deciding which is more likely unless I also take into account what  was written down 
at the time.
Charwins fact find recorded that Mr T and Mrs M had a Family Income  Benefit policy 
(designed to pay a fixed income to help Mr T raise  the children in the event Mrs M died), and 
two joint life cover policies. They were not described  as life and critical illness  policies. Mrs M 
wasnt working but Mr T would also receive  six months full pay, six months half pay from his 
employer in the event of accident or sickness. 
There was space for the adviser to identify  protection shortfalls, which  Charwin has 
explained to us actually means where a need  for protection has been identified. As Mr T and 
Mrs M were increasing their financial commitments  they may well have had a need to review 
any existing critical illness cover. But this section was left blank and, as a result,  I find it hard 
on balance to accept  that Mr T and Mrs M had stressed their need for this cover  as strongly 
as their recollections suggest.
The plan schedules  for their LV= policies showed that they were for decreasing term life 
cover and not critical illness policies. Mr Ts additionally included income protection (which 
was not defined on the schedule). A waiting period of six months  was chosen for this to fit in 
with his employers  sickness benefits,  with an additional amount payable  after 12 months.  
This is an indication, in my view,  that as Charwin  has said,  it was only too happy to meet  
needs which it identified  in discussion with Mr T and Mrs M. Incidentally, I dont think its 
unusual that the income  protection was sold with these deferral periods. An adviser  could 
equally have  been criticised for making  a recommendation which  overlapped with Mr Ts 
employer benefits.
The purpose of sending Mr T and Mrs M a Statement of Demands and Needs document  was 
to act as a record of the advice Charwin  gave. As such it was an important document  and I 
consider it was reasonable for Mr T and Mrs M to read it and raise  any issues with Charwin 
at the time, particularly  as they signed  this document.
Under a section Protection Needs and Recommendations the adviser  stated The following 
sections cover your demands and needs and any personal recommendations I have  made. 
He then gave  a prominent heading  Life Assurance  and/or  Life Assurance with Critical 
Illness (my emphasis), and ran through  what the purpose of life cover was and the purpose 
of critical illness  cover  was.
So despite  Mr T and Mrs Ms comments,  including  the opinion  of their solicitor, I dont think  
they could reasonably have construed from this that they were  definitely taking out a policy 
with critical illness included. They are entitled  to feel that their earlier advisers reports were 
clearer, but given  the importance of such a recommendation  I think it would also have been 
reasonable for them to check the rest of the document. Under Your requirements  the 
adviser explained that he was actually recommending life insurance alone.  
There was no further mention  in the document of critical illness,  however the adviser 
explained that the policy did include cover  for a terminal  illness.  This would pay the same 
amount as if Mr T or Mrs M died, but at the point the terminal illness was diagnosed. Their  
existing joint life policies  were being  replaced  with twin policies so that either of them could 
separately claim without affecting  the others benefit. Consequently, Mr T and Mrs M were 
going to cancel their existing  joint life policies and also the Family Income  Benefit policy. 
This document stated that Mr T did not require unemployment cover.
Ref: DRN86372884I understand Mr T and Mrs Ms concern  that Charwins stated approach is to retain a copy  of 
existing policy documents where  available. However  I dont think  this is a bar to it being able 
to advise when  these documents arent provided.  I agree  they likely werent provided given 
the lack of reference to policy numbers, and the insured sums being  incorrect.  However Im 
not sure its critical to the outcome  of Mr T and Mrs Ms complaint given that theyve 
maintained that they told the adviser of the importance of critical illness  cover. Yet there is 
no reference to this, and it seems  they inadvertently didnt read through the documents  
which they had on a number of occasions  to make sure something which  was important to 
them was actually included.
Mr T and Mrs M have  mentioned  that it was a busy time for them  as they were  remortgaging.  
But taking out a mortgage and its associated financial products are some of the most 
important decisions an individual can make. Some of the documents mentioning a lack of 
critical illness cover were  signed by Mr T and Mrs M. In many cases, when something it 
missed it doesnt have the consequences  it unfortunately has done in this case. 
I sympathise with the very unfortunate outcome Mr T and Mrs M have had here. But that 
doesnt mean its fair and reasonable for me to hold Charwin responsible for the absence of 
critical illness cover on their policies, given the number of reasonable opportunities they had 
to highlight this to the adviser or directly with the insurer and require this to be amended. I 
understand this will be very disappointing for Mr T and Mrs M, but on balance  this is the only 
decision I can fairly reach in this case.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr T and Mrs Ms complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8637288