K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2003  when    
Miss P applied for a credit card. Miss P says Bank  of Scotland Plc  trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) - mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Halifax should have  made Miss P aware she had a choice in buying the PPI. Halifax  doesnt 
have any paperwork Miss P would have  completed  at the time but it has provided a sample  
copy of the application form Miss P is likely to have completed.
Looking at the sample copy, I can see it asks applicants to select  a box if they want the 
policy. Ive thought about what  I know about how Halifax sold these  types of policies at the 
time, alongside what Miss P has told us. And having done this, I think  its unlikely Halifax  
would have added the PPI without  Miss P indicating she wanted it. But I can understand why 
Miss P cant remember taking the policy now.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Miss P so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.
Miss P says she had generous sick pay benefits from her employer. The PPI would have 
paid out alongside her employee benefits, as well as covering her repayments if she became 
unemployed. And I cant see that she had any other means  such  as savings  to make her 
repayments. So I dont  think Halifax was wrong to recommend the policy to her.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss P paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Miss P back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand  Halifax  has already paid this to 
Miss P. 
Ref: DRN80509842my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8050984