K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that AIB Group (UK) Plc wont refund  a cash  machine withdrawal that he 
says he neither made nor authorised. AIB Group (UK) Plc operates  in this case  under its 
First Trust Bank, or FTB, brand. 
background
In October  2018 Mr W made  a £200 cash machine withdrawal. A few minutes later there 
was a further withdrawal  for the same  amount made  at a different cash machine a short 
distance away. 
Mr W says he didnt make the second  withdrawal.  He says he got on a bus straight  after 
making the first withdrawal, having  put his bank card in his wallet which he then put in his 
pocket. He says too that he didnt keep a record  of his PIN, which hed memorised.
FTB looked  into the withdrawal that Mr W was disputing. It said that its records showed the 
genuine card (rather than a copy or clone) had been  used with the correct  PIN. The bank 
said it was unable to explain  how someone  could have taken Mr Ws card, used it with the 
correct PIN and then returned it to him without him noticing. It concluded that Mr W had 
made the withdrawal  and said that it wouldnt give him a refund. 
Mr W didnt accept that and complained  to this service. One of our investigators looked at his 
complaint but agreed with FTB that it was more  likely than not that he had made  the 
withdrawal himself. Mr W didnt accept  the investigators view and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for very similar reasons.
First of all, Im satisfied that Mr Ws genuine card was used  with the correct PIN to make  the 
disputed withdrawal. His card had been used  to make an undisputed withdrawal nearby and 
just a few minutes  earlier. But the banks evidence shows  that the chip embedded in the card 
was read at the cash machine, as Id expect where a UK cash  machine is used. Whilst its 
possible to replicate the magnetic stripe  to produce a copy of a card,  copying  the chip in a 
card is a very different matter. 
Im satisfied too the correct PIN was used. Mr W says,  and I accept, that he didnt  keep a 
record of it. He says too there was nobody near him when  he made the undisputed 
withdrawal. The PIN is not kept in unencrypted form on the card itself, and its most unlikely 
that anyone could have guessed it correctly.   
There is, therefore, no plausible  explanation  as to how anybody  other  than Mr W could have 
made the withdrawal.  
Mr W has pointed  out that there  was a number missing in the cards  Application  Transaction  
Counter (or ATC) series.  That is, the number attached to the disputed  withdrawal  was two 
higher than that attached  to the undisputed withdrawal. Mr W says that it should have been 
only one higher. I dont  agree with him about  that, however. The ATC provides a sequential 
reference to each reading of the chip in the card, but it can be triggered even where theres  
Ref: DRN80179272no actual card transaction. A large jump in the sequence, a duplicate number or a decrease 
may be indicative of fraud or other technical issues. A single missing number doesnt 
indicate that, however; if anything, its further  evidence the genuine  card was used.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Mr W made  the withdrawal himself. It wouldnt therefore  
be fair to require FTB to refund it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require AIB Group  (UK) Plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Ws complaint.  Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8017927