K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ss complaint is about the amount of compensation Santander UK Plc offered  following 
a complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  she took out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Santander got due to the PPI. I havent considered how the policy  was sold because  Mrs S 
didnt raise this issue  with our service.  Ive only looked at whether the offer Santander has 
made is fair.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA),  issued 
some new rules about how businesses should  deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Santander said that the level of commission and profit share  it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mrs S paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mrs S for the time she was out of pocket.
Mrs S is unhappy with the amount  of the commission  offer she has received from Santander 
and she thinks Santander is wrong  when it says the PPI started  in 2005.
Mrs S has sent us a copy of a letter from 2003 which  mentions PPI. But this appears to be a 
quote for PPI, and it doesnt say whether Mrs S actually took up the quote and took out the 
policy at that time. Santander has sent us copies of its records, which  show the PPI started 
in 2005. So I think its likely the PPI did start in 2005  and Santander has acted reasonably in 
using this date.
While Mrs S is unhappy with the amount of the commission  offer she has received, 
Santander has done what the rules  it must  follow tell it to do. Ive thought  about  whether 
theres anything about  Mrs Ss particular complaint and circumstances that means  
Santander should do something different to put right the unfairness caused  by not telling her 
about the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont think there  is. I think  the 
offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. So I wont be telling Santander 
to do anything more.
Ref: DRN82290142my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Santander  UK Plc has correctly  worked  out what it needs to 
pay Mrs S.
Santander UK Plc should update and pay its offer to Mrs S if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8229014