K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say The Co-operative Bank  Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection Consumer  insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2001.  They  paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint because:
I think The Co-operative made Mr and Mrs B aware that they had a choice about buying  the 
MPPI. Given the choice  during  the mortgage application,  they declined to take out MPPI. 
They applied for the MPPI later, via a separate  application form. On this form they 
selected the type and amount of benefit, the deferment  period for each  part of the cover 
and that only Mrs B would  be covered. Upon receipt  of the policy documents  they 
completed a direct  debit  mandate  in order to pay for the MPPI separately from their 
mortgage payments. I think  this shows they knew they had a choice, and chose to take 
out the policy. 
The Co-operative didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs B, so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for them. 
I think The Co-operative couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs B would still have bought  it. The policy  wouldve made 
their monthly mortgage repayment for up to 12 months if Mrs B had been  unable to work 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment.  This wouldve  left any sick pay, redundancy 
payments, other income or savings available for other things. 
Its possible that The Co-operative didnt point out the main  things the policy didnt 
cover. But Mr and Mrs B dont appear to have been  affected by any of those  things. 
Mr and Mrs B say they couldve kept up with the mortgage repayments  without the 
MPPI, through Mr Bs income,  savings, or with the help of Mrs Bs parents. But the MPPI 
protected them from having to rely on these  sources. And given  the evidence  that they 
chose the specific  cover they took out, I think its likely  that at the time they thought it 
was worthwhile.  I dont think that clearer information  about the price or the main  things 
the policy  didnt  cover wouldve made  any difference  to their decision. 
Ref: DRN83393342Mr and Mrs B say they had life insurance.  But this is a different type of cover,  which 
would only have  paid out if one of them had died. The MPPI covered Mrs B being 
unable to work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment  circumstances in which  the 
life insurance wouldnt  have helped. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Bs comments, including  what  their representative said in 
response to the adjudicators opinion. But these points dont change my conclusion. While 
Mr and Mrs B may now feel the MPPI was unnecessary,  the evidence  from the time 
suggests they thought it would be useful and was worth  having. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019. 
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8339334