K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs T says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs T took out in 1994.  It was 
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL should have  taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear the PPI was optional  and it has 
provided a copy of Mrs Ts application  form. The form has a section for the PPI and 
applicants have to tick a box to say yes or no to taking out the PPI. On Mrs Ts form, the 
yes box has been ticked.  Mrs  T has signed  the overall credit agreement  so I think  if there 
was anything on the form she wasn't  sure about or hadn't agreed  to, she would've had the 
opportunity to question  it at the time.  
On balance I think FICL made it clear that Mrs T didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs T got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mrs T was entitled to, as well as helping 
her cover payments if she lost her job. Mrs T says her husband  and family wouldve helped  
out. I dont  doubt  that they wouldve wanted  to help, but circumstances can change so this 
help cant always be guaranteed. So I think the policy would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs T has said  including that she was made 
redundant three years after taking out the policy. But this point doesnt change  my decision 
Ref: DRN88303812for the reasons Ive explained above.   But Mrs T may be entitled to make a retrospective  
claim. If shed like to do this, she should get in touch  with FICL to see if she can start a 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs T complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8830381