K822xComplaint
Miss D has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly applied 
expensive charges to her overdraft when she was already in financial difficulty.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 15 June  2021, which forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Miss Ds complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Halifax responded saying it never consented to us looking  at events which  took place more 
than six years before the complaint was made. It waived the fees on Miss Ds account for six 
months not one month. The fees added  in October 2012 were fees accrued in August 2012. 
It isnt appropriate  to backdate the default on Miss Ds account  to August 2012 when it would 
have taken at least 3 months  before  it was able to take this action  in relation to her account. 
Miss D didnt provide  anything further for me to think about. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Halifaxs further  points. I have to say that I am incredibly surprised by 
Halifaxs continued comments regarding the scope of my jurisdiction here. As I said in my 
provisional decision the file submission from Halifaxs clearly provided consent  to us looking 
at this complaint.  There was no equivocation  provided in the file submission and our service  
has never even requested  a file for a packaged bank account complaint.  
Id also point out that DISP 2.8.2AR clearly says If a respondent consents to 
the Ombudsman considering a complaint in accordance with DISP  2.8.2 R (5), 
the respondent may not withdraw  consent . So even if I were to accept  Halifax consented in 
error, for the sake of completeness I want to make it clear that I dont as the submission 
clearly said Miss Ds complaint about her overdraft  was considered  as part of the packaged 
account complaint,  Im satisfied theres,  in any event, no basis  for Halifax  withdrawing that 
consent. And Im satisfied  I can look at all the overdraft charges applied to Miss Ds account.   
Ive also thought about what  Halifax has said about the fees added to Miss Ds overdraft in 
October 2012. But I still have to question how fair and reasonable it was for Halifax to add 
these fees, whether already accrued or not, in circumstances where it was aware Miss D 
was struggling and needed  some  breathing space.
Finally, Ive also thought  about what Halifax has said about the default recorded  on Miss Ds 
credit file. Given my provisional  decision concluded Halifax  ought reasonably to have started  
the process in August 2012 and it would have taken  3 months to have called Miss Ds 
overdraft in, Im satisfied backdating  a default  to November/December  2012 would have 
been fair and reasonable here. However,  as it has been well over 6 years since  Halifax  
initially recorded the default, Im satisfied that there  is now no need to amend any 
information recorded on Miss Ds credit  file as it wouldnt make a difference.
Ref: DRN81834762So having  considered all of Halifaxs further points, Im still upholding Miss Ds complaint. 
And Halifax needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Miss D.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ds complaint for Halifax to do the following:
Reworking Miss Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and 
charges applied to it from August 2012 onwards  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Miss D to arrange a suitable  repayment plan 
for this.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss D along  with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Halifax has confirmed it sold the outstanding  balance on Miss Ds overdraft to a third party 
debt purchaser.  So it either needs  to buy the account back  from the third party and make the 
necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make these 
adjustments, or pay Miss D an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision of 15 June 2021, Im 
upholding Miss Ds complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN81834763COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss D has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly applied 
expensive charges to her overdraft when she was already in financial difficulty.
Background
Miss D also initially complained the sale of an Ultimate Reward Packaged  Bank Account 
(URCA). But she didnt refer her concerns about  the URCA to our service and limited her 
complaint to the overdraft charges applied to her account before it was passed to collections. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Halifax  didnt do enough to 
help Miss D when she got in contact to explain that she was in financial difficulty  in August  
2012. So our adjudicator  upheld Miss Ds complaint. 
Halifax refused to respond to our adjudicator view saying  that it had never considered       
Miss Ds complaint about her overdraft fees and in any event it thought  Miss D complained 
about this matter too late. As Halifax refused to respond to our adjudicators  assessment the 
case was passed  to an ombudsman to review.    
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules,  regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional 
decision.
Firstly, I have seen what Halifax has said about  it not having  looked at Miss Ds concerns 
and her complaint  having been made late. However, when initially  providing  the file Halifaxs  
case handler said The customer has complained  about overdraft  fees. Whilst this is not 
noted in the final response the colleague  has looked  into this and noted there was no 
financial difficulties whilst  the account was held and when the customer has raised the 
concerns we have  acted  correctly and assisted the customer  This  same file submission 
also confirmed that Halifax  consented  to us looking at the complaint in relation to the six and 
three year time-limit  rule it is attempting to now rely on.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that Halifax has not only considered  the complaint 
weve looked at but that it also fully consented  to us now doing so. So I find the response it 
sent to our adjudicators view to be incredibly disappointing. But, in any event, as Im 
satisfied were able to do so, Ive gone on to look at Miss Ds complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think Halifax acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated transaction  fees after August 2012. I 
say this because, in August 2012, Miss D got in touch with Halifax  to explain that she was 
out of work, seven  months pregnant and her outgoings exceeded her income.  Halifaxs  
contact notes also suggest that no income  and expenditure had been  carried out because 
Miss Ds income was made up solely from benefits. 
Ref: DRN81834764Halifax did freeze the charges on Miss Ds account for a month.  But I dont see how Halifax 
could reasonably have believed that this would be a permanent solution to Miss Ds 
difficulties, given I cant see what could  possibly have changed in Miss Ds circumstances 
during that month  for example, I think its unlikely that she would have returned to work in 
this period when  she would  have  been closer do the due date for her baby. Equally, I find it 
astonishing that Halifax started  adding fees again without contacting Miss D to see whether 
she was in a better  financial  position  either.  
Bearing in mind Miss Ds circumstances,  it ought to have been apparent that she was highly 
unlikely to have  been able to repay  what she already owed let alone any further  overdraft 
fees and associated charges being  added to the balance. So Halifax should  have stopped  
providing the overdraft  on the same terms and treated  Miss D with forbearance  rather than 
adding even more  fees and charges on the overdraft.  I dont see how Halifax  waiting a 
number of months to do so  while adding further  interest, fees and charges in the 
intervening period  was treating Miss D fairly and reasonably.
All of this means  that Halifax should have realised that Miss D was experiencing financial 
difficulty, wasnt using  her overdraft as intended  and shouldnt  have continued  offering  it on 
the same  terms. As Halifax didnt  react to Miss Ds overdraft usage  and instead  continued  
charging in the same  way, I think it failed to act fairly  and reasonably. 
Miss D ended up paying additional interest,  fees and associated  charges on her overdraft at 
a time when  she was already experiencing difficulty. So Im intending  to say that Miss D lost 
out because of what Halifax did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Im intending to say Halifax needs to do to put things right 
for Miss D.
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Miss Ds complaint for Halifax to put things 
right by:
Reworking Miss Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and 
charges applied to it from August 2012 onwards  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Miss D to arrange a suitable  repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate  to record  negative information on Miss Ds 
credit file, it should backdate this to August 2012.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss D along  with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information  from Miss Ds credit  file. 
Ref: DRN81834765 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold Miss Ds complaint and tell Bank  of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 29 June 2021  changes my mind, thats what 
Ill tell Halifax to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8183476