K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged her an 
additional premium  for her car insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
In April 2017, Mrs S took out car insurance  online with Advantage through  a broker. 
Advantage said that during the application Mrs S said she had been resident in the UK since  
birth. Her premium for the policy year was set at just under £1,400. She agreed to pay her 
premium in monthly direct debit  instalments.
But, soon  after, Advantage found out that Mrs S hadnt been resident in the UK since birth.  
At the end of May 2017, Advantage sent Mrs S a letter explaining that they had amended 
her policy with the correct  residency date and that she had to pay an additional premium of 
just under £800, together with a £25 administrative fee for making  the amendment.
The first two scheduled direct debit  instalments  based on the original premium  were taken 
out of Mrs Ss account on 17 April and 17 May 2017. The increased payment after the 
amendment was paid out of Mrs Ss account on 17 June 2017. A few days  later Mrs S 
complained saying Advantage over charged her without first telling her, so she cancelled  the 
policy. She also asked  her bank for a charge back of the 17 June  instalment.  Her bank took 
back that instalment.  Advantage  asked  Mrs S to repay that last instalment of £223.31,  but 
when she refused Advantage passed  it onto a debt collection agency. Advantage also told 
Mrs S that they had charged her a £25 administrative fee for passing the matter onto the 
debt collectors.
Mrs S said that when she completed  the online application she declared that she hadnt  
been resident  in the UK since birth. Advantage said that because they didnt have a 
telephone number for Mrs S, they sent her emails  and letters about the policy  amendment  
and the additional premium. But Mrs S said she did provide her number during the 
application process and that she didnt receive emails  or letters  from Advantage. She said 
the increase of her direct debit instalment  was unauthorised.  She said the increased  
instalment pushed her account into overdraft for which she was penalised with a £16 fee. 
She also said she shouldnt be charged  a £45 cancellation fee because  she was effectively 
forced into cancelling by Advantage.
Advantage didnt  uphold  Mrs S complaint. Mrs S didn't think that was fair so she bought  her 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked into the complaint. He felt that Advantage 
hadnt treated  Mrs S fairly. He said that although  Advantage  were entitled to their premium 
for the time Mrs S was on cover, they werent entitled to the cancellation fee. As Advantage 
didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 19 February 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN87042912In her complaint, Mrs S has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all 
those carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what I consider to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if Advantage  have dealt with Mrs S in a fair and 
reasonable way. 
premium calculation
Mrs S believes the increase to her premium  was unfair. It might help if I explain that 
we're not the industry regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how 
much they can charge  for their policies. And our service generally  takes  the view 
that, providing they treat people fairly  - that is they treat customers  with similar  
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they 
need to in order to cover a risk.
Mrs Ss premium  did go up significantly, so I can understand why she was 
concerned. But just because her premium has increased, I don't think that means  
that Advantage have treated her unfairly.  Advantage provided me with information  to 
show how Mrs Ss premium has increased. That information is commercially 
sensitive so I can't share it with Mrs S. But having looked at it carefully, Im satisfied 
that Advantage treated  Mrs S in the same way as it would  other  policyholders in 
similar circumstances. So I think they calculated her premium  reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders 
will make a claim and how much  they will have to pay out for those. And its not down 
to me to tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, 
nor how to go about those  assessments. Different  insurers will have different views 
on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of 
commercial judgement, balancing risk against the need to compete with other  
policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Mrs S thinks it was unfair for Advantage to charge a higher 
premium because she hadnt lived in the UK since birth.  But each insurer  will have 
their own methods of calculating risk. Im also aware  that many  insurers think  an 
individual who hasnt  lived in the UK since birth presents a higher risk than someone 
who has. But other insurers might not think the same. As insurance is essentially an 
assessment of risk, I dont think theres  anything  wrong with insurers  considering 
whether or not certain individuals fall into higher risk groupings. And Im aware that 
Advantage doesn't calculate  premiums based  on where the policyholder was born, 
only on how long theyve  lived in the UK. So they dont consider a customers  
nationality or race.  So I think a British citizen born and raised abroad who becomes 
resident in the UK later on in life would be treated in the same way as Mrs S, so I 
cant say Mrs S has been singled out or treated differently to others in similar 
circumstances. So Im not intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
Mrs S said that she declared when  completing the online application that she wasnt 
resident in the UK since birth. But Advantage have provided me with the application 
details and it does  appear that Mrs S did say she was resident in the UK since birth. I 
have also seen that soon after Mrs S took out the policy, Advantage sent her a letter 
including a document headed Your Statement  of Insurance. That document  asked 
Mrs S to read the information carefully  and to let Advantage know  if any of the details 
were wrong. That document indicated that Mrs S had declared that she had been 
resident in the UK since birth. But Mrs S didnt  contact  Advantage to correct that. The 
Ref: DRN87042913information I have  seen shows that Advantage  sent that letter  to Mrs Ss correct  
email and postal  addresses. So I am satisfied  Advantage sent it to her.
charging the additional premium
Advantage have  suggested that what Mrs S did amounted to, what is known in the 
insurance industry, a careless misrepresentation. And theres  specific  legislation  - the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets 
out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers  may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  
(or apply other  exclusions  or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied).  But 
if the consumer  isn't happy  with that approach, they can cancel the policy 
themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, although 
we think its fair for the insurer to give the policyholder the option  of them paying the 
additional premium  for the insurer to then settle  the claim in full instead of settling the 
claim proportionately. But that can only happen if the policyholder is happy with that.
But while CIDRA  gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy  where there has 
been a careless  misrepresentation,  as in this case, we think its fair for an insurer to 
explain to the policyholder  theres  a problem and give them the option  of paying the 
additional premium  in order to keep the policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy 
themselves. Thats because the insurer cancelling  the policy will have serious  
consequences on the policyholder because they will have to declare it when they 
want to take out insurance later on.
In Mrs Ss case, Advantage charged an additional  premium, which  they werent 
entitled to do. I understand  that Advantage said they were  unable to contact Mrs S by 
phone as they didnt have  a phone number for her, but they had her email  address 
and her postal address.  They  should have written  to her explaining the problem and 
they should have explained  the options  available under CIDRA. But they didnt do 
that. I know Advantage said they had difficulty in contacting Mrs S. But I dont think  
Advantage were  at any disadvantage by being unable  to contact Mrs S, because had 
Mrs S made a claim during the time Advantage were  trying to contact her to discuss 
the problem, under CIDRA they would have been  entitled to deal with any claim on a 
proportionate basis. But, as is evident from the lack of correspondence  on the issue, I 
think Advantage overlooked the requirements under CIDRA by not explaining the 
available options.
Although Mrs S cancelled  her policy, Advantage are entitled to part of the premium  
for Mrs Ss time on cover. But that should be on the basis of the original premium and 
not the increased amount  after the additional premium was added.  So I intend to 
require Advantage  to not purse Mrs S for any part of the additional premium and to 
calculate Mrs Ss time on cover from the date of the start of the policy until the date 
she cancelled it using  the original premium. That calculation, reflecting her time on 
cover, should be set out clearly in a letter to her. 
Advantage referred Mrs Ss debt to a third party debt recovery agent  after our service  
told Advantage that Mrs S had brought her complaint to us. So I think  it would  have 
Ref: DRN87042914been reasonable for Advantage to put any debt recovery action on hold while  we 
looked into the complaint. I understand that facing  action from the debt recovery 
agent caused Mrs S great distress, so I intend to require Advantage to pay her 
compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience she experienced.
And given  Advantage werent  entitled  to charge Mrs S an additional premium without 
her consent,  they also shouldnt  have amended her direct debit mandate  without her 
consent that resulted in an increased payment  of almost £100 leaving her account. 
Mrs S has provided our service with evidence showing she was charged £16 by her 
bank for an unplanned overdraft during the relevant period. So I intend  to require 
Advantage to refund  that amount together with 8% simple interest  per year from the 
date she was charged that amount  until the date Advantage refunds her.
administrative fees
Mrs S wanted the administrative fees she was charged, namely the policy 
amendment fee of £25 and £45 to cancel her policy, to either  be refunded  if she has 
already paid them or not be pursued if she hasnt yet paid them.  But those fees were 
charged by the broker, a separate  company, and not by Advantage. So its not 
something I can ask Advantage to consider.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Both Advantage and Mrs S accepted 
my findings.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Not purse Mrs S for any part of the additional premium and to calculate her time on cover 
from the date of the start of the policy until the date she cancelled  it using  the original 
premium. That calculation  should  be set out clearly  in a letter to her.
Refund Mrs S the £16 overdraft penalty she was charged by her bank together  with 8% 
simple interest per year from the date she was charged that amount until the date 
Advantage refunds her. 1.
Pay Mrs S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. This 
should be paid within 28 days  of us telling them that Mrs S has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple. 
1 If Advantage consider that theyre  required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mrs S how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs S a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN87042915Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8704291