K820x#14complaint
Mr E says CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Pounds to Pocket  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Pounds to Pocket provided to Mr E on 
10 December 2014. Mr E borrowed £800. This was due to be repaid in 11 monthly 
instalments of £135. Mr E repaid the loan on 12 June 2015. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Es complaint. He thought the checks Pounds  to Pocket had 
made were proportionate and so its decision to lend was reasonable. Mr E disagreed; he 
said that the loan was taken out to cover the costs  of other payday loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt  change his opinion about the complaint and it has been  passed to me 
 an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Pounds to Pocket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Ive seen a record  of the information Mr E provided  when he completed his loan application. 
Mr E said he had a monthly income  of £1,400 and he had regular monthly  outgoings of 
£600. This left him with a disposable income  of £800. So, as our adjudicator said,  the 
monthly repayments were  a relatively  low proportion of Mr Es recorded disposable income. 
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Pounds  to Pocket was made 
aware of any financial  problems Mr E mightve been  having. Or anything  that wouldve 
prompted it to investigate his circumstances further. And at this early  point in a lending  
relationship I dont think it would be reasonable for Pounds to Pocket to have found  out 
about any other short term lending that Mr E mayve had. I think it was reasonable for 
Pounds to Pocket to rely on the information  it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Pounds  to Pocket  did for this loan 
was proportionate. And I think  its decision  to lend was reasonable.
Ref: DRN81911592my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8191159