K821x#15Complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation), following 
a claim against it under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
Background
I issued a provisional decision in April 2020,  concluding that Mr Ds complaint  should be 
upheld. I also set out what Creation should do to put things right. I attach a redacted  version  
of my provisional decision which forms part of this final decision.
I invited further comments  from both parties  before  I reconsidered the complaint for a final 
time. Both Mr D and Creation accepted my provisional decision findings.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  overall  conclusions as set out in my provisional  
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ds complaint  should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
arrange for the system to be removed from Mr Ds property and make good any 
damage caused at no additional cost to him,
refund  the payments Mr D has made towards  the system, including  any deposit,  less 
any benefits he has received. Creation should use Mr Ds FIT statements and 
electricity bills to do this, including  a self-consumption rate of 37%,
add 8% simple interest* to the above from the date the payments were  made  to the 
date of the settlement, and;
pay Mr D £300 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Ref: DRN89566482Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer  Finance  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should  
also give him a certificate showing  this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax form HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN89566483Provisional decision
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer  Finance Ltd (Creation), following a claim 
against it under section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act (CCA) 1974.
Background
Mr D was contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as E, that supplied and installed solar panel 
systems. Following a meeting at his home, Mr D agreed to enter into a contract with E for it to supply 
and install a solar panel system costing £10,800. To fund this, he also agreed to enter into a 10 year 
fixed sum loan agreement  with Creation.
Mr D made a claim under  section 75 (s75) of the CCA. He said that E had told him that the solar  
panel system would be self-funded and that the benefits hed receive  from the system by way of 
feed-in-tariff (FIT) income and savings on his electricity  bills would more than off-set the monthly 
loan repayments. But this hadnt happened. Instead, his monthly loan repayments  had been  much 
higher than any income or benefit hed received. Mr D also raised some concerns about the quality of 
the installation and that he hadnt been receiving any FIT payments since 2018.
In response, Creation offered to arrange  for an independent  expert to visit Mr Ds home  and look at 
the quality of the installation. Mr D declined this and referred his complaint to this service.
During the course of our investigation Mr D agreed to Creation  arranging for a company  to inspect his 
solar panel  system. Its report said this installation  is of an extremely poor quality throughout. It also 
provided a quote for the repair work it had identified. Creation offered to arrange and pay for the 
repair work. In addition to this it also offered to calculate the potential savings  and income  to Mr D 
over the term of the loan. It then said it would  restructure the loan so that he would  pay no more than 
this over the 10 year term.
Our investigator thought the offer put forward by Creation  was fair. 
Mr D disagreed. He said he wanted the panels to be removed from his home  and for all the payments  
hed made  to be returned  to him.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for review.
 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im required  to determine  this complaint  on the basis of what  I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account  
relevant law and regulations;  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate,  what  I consider to have been good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
In this case the relevant law includes s75 of the CCA, which provides protection for consumers for 
goods or services bought using credit.  It states:
If the debtor  under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract,  he shall have  a like claim  against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and severally liable  to the debtor.
Ref: DRN89566484As Mr D paid for the solar  panel system through a fixed sum loan agreement, Creation agrees that 
s75 applies  to this transaction.  This means that Mr D could claim against Creation  the creditor  for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same  way he could have claimed  
against the supplier. So, I have taken s75 into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case.
The offer put forward by Creation is to arrange and pay for the repair work that is needed  to bring the 
quality of Mr Ds solar panel installation  to the required  standard. It has also it will put Mr D in a 
position where  his solar panels are self-funding  over the original term of the loan. By doing this 
Creation has accepted that the benefits of the solar panel system were misrepresented to Mr D and 
that there was a breach of contract  due to the quality of the installation of the system. As a result, this 
decision will deal with what I consider to be fair compensation.
Creations offer
I need to decide whether  the offer put forward by Creation is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint. I understand that in similar complaints our service   has accepted that 
the proposal  put forward  by Creation, as outlined above, to be fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of those complaints.
The original contract to supply and install Mr Ds solar panel system was covered by the Supply of 
Goods and Services  Act (SGSA) 1982.  The SGSA  sets out that the goods must  be of a satisfactory  
quality and services must be carried out with reasonable skill and care.
And within the contract that Mr D had with E for it to supply and install the solar panel system to his 
home, there is an implied term that the trader, in this case E, would  carry  out the services, i.e. the 
installation, will reasonable  skill and care.
Ive reviewed the report that was completed on Mr Ds solar panel  system. The report says:
On Inspection, this installation is of an extremely poor quality throughout. The panels are not secured 
correctly on the roof  and as a result  of this, the limpets are all loose and are close to being  blown  of 
the roofs.  The panels on the front roof have now sagged and are not straight due to the loose fittings 
on the panels.  There is a hole on the roof where the roof hook has split a roof tile under the bracker,  
water can easily find its way in from this area on the front roof. The Dc cable and MC4 connectors are 
not tied to the rail and are lying on the roof with water ingress. This has caused a reduction with the 
systems performance. In the loft space the DC cable is unclipped  in areas  and the Isolators are not 
securely installed atall in the loft. The original  installers  have used less than half the amount  of 
required brackets.  The AC cable run is in twin and earth, when it MUST be armoured for any external  
runs and it is also not securely  installed  and is tied to a loose pipe,  which is dangerous  practice. 
Finally there are no warning labels  or a shutdown procedure installed at the property, which  could 
cause a serious incident to another electrician working  on the customers electrics as they wouldnt 
know solar  was installed  internally. The Inverter is also damaged but not from workmanship, simply 
age.
Ive also noted in the report there is a section that says DETAIL ANY IMMEDIATE  HEALTH & 
SAFETY ISSUES. This then says Several  issues as stated above.
The report outlined  above  highlights a number  of issues with the installation of Mr Ds solar  panel  
system. So, like Creation, Im not satisfied that the installation of Mr Ds solar  panel  system was 
carried out with reasonable  skill and care. Therefore, I consider this to be a breach of contract.  
The report covers a number of key issues with the installation.  These include the solar panels being 
so poorly installed that they are close to being  blown  off the roof and that there is further damage to 
Mr Ds roof which is likely to lead to water ingress. It goes on to say that the performance of the solar  
panel system has been reduced and therefore any benefits that Mr D has received are less than he 
Ref: DRN89566485should have reasonably  expected. This is supported by Mr Ds statement  that he hasnt been 
receiving FIT payments since 2018. 
Ive also gone on to consider that the report highlights there  are several  immediate health and safety 
issues that need to be resolved. Im of the view that this means that Mr Ds solar  panel  system is, and 
has been since installation,  unsafe and poses an immediate risk to his and others health  and safety.  
Again, this demonstrates that the installation wasnt carried out with reasonable skill and care. In my 
view, this is a significant breach of the contract Mr D had with E.
Whilst I understand that Creation believes that its offer is fair and reasonable, and in similar 
complaints this service has agreed  with it, my role is to reach a fair and reasonable  outcome taking 
account of the particular circumstances of this complaint. Overall, the report highlights  a number of 
major, and what  I consider  to be key issues, with the solar panel systems  installation. These issues 
have placed Mr D, his family and any contractors carrying out work in his home  in harms way and Ive 
taken this into account when  considering  what  is fair and reasonable.
The report mentions that the inverter for the solar panel system  is no longer working and needs to be 
replaced. This explains  why Mr D hasnt been receiving FIT payments from his energy  provider. Ive 
noted that this says this is due to age rather than the quality of the installation. 
Ive looked at the current  information available  from the Energy Savings  Trust. It says that solar 
panels dont need a lot of maintenance  but usually the inverter  will need replacing sometime during  
the lifetime of the panels at a cost of around £800. 
Mr Ds solar panel system has a 20 year lifetime and was installed in 2015.  From  the evidence 
discussed above, it appears that his inverter needed replacing shortly  after three years of installation. 
I accept that it isnt unusual for an inverter to need replacing, as set out by the Energy Savings Trust. 
Although I am surprised that it has stopped working  just over three years after installation.
Ive also considered the methodology that Creation has submitted to this service to calculate the total 
benefits of the solar panel  system. This methodology is based on the actual and estimated future 
performance of Mr Ds solar panel system.
The methodology  Creation  follows is to calculate the first years benefits based on Mr Ds FIT 
statements and electricity  bills. To calculate the remaining benefits,  it uses  a number of assumptions 
including, but not limited  to, a self-consumption rate of 37%, electricity price  inflation, the degradation  
rate and the estimated  retail  price index. Im of the view that these  appear reasonable  taking into 
account the actual known figures.  For example,  the actual  average retail price index  for the last four 
years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed  figure. 
Usually, Id consider  that the assumptions being used by Creation provide a fair and reasonable basis 
for calculating  fair compensation. However,  in Mr Ds complaint, Im not satisfied that they do. Mr D 
hasnt been in receipt  of FIT payments since 2018 so I dont consider it fair for Creation to use only 
the first years  FIT statements and electricity bills to calculate the estimated future  performance of the 
solar panel  system as it isnt a true reflection of his solar panel systems  performance.
Taking account of what I have discussed above in regards to the quality of the installation and 
Creations offer to make good the installation and the solar panel  system self-funding, Im not satisfied 
that this provides a fair and reasonable outcome in the particular circumstances  of this complaint. 
Fair compensation
Creation doesnt dispute  that the benefits of the solar panel system were  misrepresented  to Mr D and 
that the poor quality of the installation was a breach of contract as the system installation didnt take 
place with reasonable skill and care. So, in assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider my 
aim should be to put Mr D in a position he wouldve been in but for the misrepresentation and breach  
of contract by E.
Ref: DRN89566486On that basis,  taking  account of the evidence I have  discussed above,  Im minded to ask Creation to 
refund any payments made towards  the solar panel system, together with 8% simple  interest per 
annum from the date of the payment to the date of the settlement. Ill allow Creation to take account of 
the benefits that Mr D has received from the system when  calculating fair compensation. To do this it 
should use Mr Ds FIT statements and electricity bills. For ease I consider it fair to use a self-
consumption rate of 37% to calculate electricity savings.
I also think  that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr D first contacted Creation  
which means his claim shouldve been upheld. Consequently,  Ill make an award of £300 to recognise  
this.
  
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions I should  receive  from either party by 23 May 2020,  my provisional 
decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
In full and final settlement  of it, Im minded to require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
arrange for the system to be removed from Mr Ds property and make good any damage 
caused at no additional  cost to him,
refund the payments  Mr D has made towards the system, including any deposit,  less any 
benefits he has received. Creation  should use Mr Ds FIT statements  and electricity bills to do 
this, including a self-consumption rate of 37%,
add 8% simple interest*  to the above  from the date the payments were made  to the date of 
the settlement, and;
pay Mr D £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8956648