K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) 
irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four loans MoneyBoat provided to Mr H between June 2015 and 
March 2016. Mr Ps borrowing history based on what MoneyBoat provided is as follows:
Loan Date  Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Highest  
repayment*
1 01/06/2015 17/08/2015 4 £600 £235
2 08/09/2015 24/12/2015 4 £400 £145
3 30/12/2015 08/02/2016 2 £750 £490
4 04/03/2016 30/03/2016 6 £750 £225
              *these figures have been  rounded up/down
Mr H has said MoneyBoat  did not lend to him responsibly as he was paying  for other short-
term loans at the same time. MoneyBoat has said his affordability was correctly  assessed 
and the relevant credit checks completed. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint and thought  loan 4 should not have been given. 
MoneyBoat disagreed so the complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN80230862refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish  
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  Ive considered  this complaint on the 
individual merits as well as thinking  about the wider regulations that were  applicable  at the 
time. 
Mr H hasnt disagreed  with our adjudicators opinion on loans 1 to 3 so I wont  be looking at 
these any further  as there is no ongoing  disagreement about  them.  But I will bear them in 
mind when Im looking at Mr Hs other  lending.  
Mr H has said he was paying for other short-term loans at the same time.  However,  Ive 
checked the credit files that have been  provided and I can see at the time loans 1 to 4 were 
taken out, the other short-term loans has been settled. 
Before Mr H entered into his first loan, MoneyBoat carried out a number of checks. I agree 
that based on his income  and expenses information the loan appeared affordable.  However, 
loans 2 to 4 were  all taken  out within days of the previous loans being settled with the loan 
amount also increasing.  So taking everything  in to consideration, I dont think  that 
MoneyBoat should have  given Mr H loan 4 as proportionate checks  would have  shown that 
he had problems managing his money and that he was unlikely to be able to repay  further 
borrowing in a sustainable way.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4 and MoneyBoat should put things right.
putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN80230863remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Evergreen Finance 
London Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8023086