K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) didnt uphold a claim he made to 
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
Mr H took receipt of a used car in May 2018.  The car cost £7,975  and Mr H paid £100 of this 
using his Barclays credit  card.
He had problems  with the car straight away and he took it back  to the supplier.  But he says 
the supplier and three other garages were unable to rectify the noise hed identified. The 
supplier said they could not identify  any fault with the car but Mr H felt it was unsafe  to drive 
and told them he wanted to return the vehicle  and get his money back.
The supplier  offered Mr H £7,400 for the car and Mr H reluctantly accepted it. But he was 
disappointed with the offer and subsequently contacted Barclays  with whom he said section 
75 allowed him to make  a like claim as they were the provider of credit.
Barclays didnt uphold  his section 75 claim.  They said hed accepted  an offer of settlement 
from the supplier.  But they did offer Mr H £200 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr H was disappointed  with their response. So he referred his complaint to this service  and 
our investigator provided her opinion. She didnt think  there  was evidence that Mr H had 
accepted the money from the supplier  in full and final settlement of the issue. So she thought  
Mr Hs claim could be considered further.  But she explained that in order  to uphold  his 
complaint shed need to be persuaded that there was a fault with the car when it was 
supplied to him. She wasnt persuaded that there was enough evidence that was the case. 
She contacted the garages  that had looked at the car but they could not supply  evidence  of 
a fault. So overall,  she thought Barclays offer of £200 had been reasonable in the 
circumstances.
But Mr H disagreed. He said the investigators  view had confirmed that Barclays were wrong 
to refuse  to consider his section 75 claim and that if theyd been able to give him some 
timescales in which they could  have considered  his case, he would not have reached the 
settlement he did with the supplier. So he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
Ref: DRN87149822when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr H made  a claim through them for 
breach of contract.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier, if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. So if theres  been a breach of contract here Mr H has a like claim against  Barclays.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied Id think the contract  had been  
breached and Id consider Barclays should take some further action.
But here Ive not seen  evidence that the car was faulty. The evidence from the three garages 
doesnt suggest that and the supplier  was unable to identify a fault. The car was returned to 
the supplier and I dont  think it would be possible to now obtain an independent inspection to 
clarify the faults.
So I dont  think there is evidence to suggest  Barclays needed to provide any redress. They 
did provide £200 as a goodwill gesture  and I think that was reasonable.
Mr H is disappointed that they didnt consider his section 75 claim as he says its now clear 
they should have. I can understand Barclays initial reluctance to consider the complaint. I 
think they may well have considered the payment provided by the supplier to be in 
settlement of the issue. In those circumstances they would have been  right to suggest  there  
was no requirement  for them to take further  action. But I also think the investigator is right 
here that there  wasnt enough evidence to suggest  the £7,400 was paid in full and final 
settlement of the issue. Im not persuaded that Barclays need  to compensate Mr H for their 
refusal to consider his claim and Im not persuaded hes lost out as a result. Their offer of 
£200 was, I think,  fair. 
Mr H is also disappointed they werent able to give him a timeframe  for their decision. He 
says this lack of clarity led him to accept the suppliers offer. I think  its unreasonable  to 
expect Barclays to give a definitive timeline.  They would have needed to investigate  the 
claim and would not, at that time,  have  been aware  how complex it was. So I dont think  they 
were unreasonable when  not providing  a timeline for him and overall, I dont think theres 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8714982