K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains the vehicle he acquired through N.I.I.B. Group  Limited trading as Northridge 
Finance was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle, end the agreement 
and obtain a refund of payments.
background
Mr G tells us he acquired the vehicle  in January 2018 through  a dealer Ill call C. He says 
that hes experienced problems from the outset.  He reports  theres  been  thick white smoke  
emitting from the vehicle  and hes had the car repaired  by C on several occasions. Mr G 
says C offered to exchange the vehicle  - but he didnt accept as he felt the terms were less 
favourable than his present deal. Mr G says hes obtained a report from a company, A, 
which provides independent  vehicle  inspections. And he states this report identified  a fault 
with the diesel particulate filter (DPF) and shows the faults were present at the time of 
supply. So he now wants to reject  the vehicle and end the agreement.
Northridge issued a final response letter in which it said it thought the offer by C to settle  the 
current agreement and quote for a new deal was a fair resolution. It pointed  out the 
agreement had been running for 11 months and the vehicle had covered around 8,000 
miles. But it also offered  - as an alternative to Cs offer - what it called a preferential 
settlement figure if Mr G wanted to trade-in the vehicle.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 May 2019. I indicated it was my 
intention to uphold  the complaint and to allow Mr G to end the agreement. Since my 
provisional decision both parties have replied. Mr G accepted my provisional decision. 
Northridge replied and referred me to the evidence  from Cs technical department which said 
the vehicle couldnt have  covered 10,000 miles if it had been  faulty  from the start. 
I thank both parties for their replies.  And Ive considered whats  been said.  But for reasons Ill 
explain in my final decision - which is set out below - Im not minded  to change my 
provisional view.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see Mr G has experienced a sequence of problems with the vehicle. I accept this 
must be disappointing and the cause of both frustration and inconvenience.
I should explain that whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into account. And 
under present legislation  - as the supplier of both the vehicle and finance under the hire 
purchase agreement  - Northridge is responsible for the vehicle being of satisfactory  quality 
at the point of supply.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in line with our fair and 
reasonable remit. And where evidence is unclear or incomplete - as some  of it is here - I 
have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say I decide  what  is the 
most likely explanation to account for whats happened.
Ref: DRN87395382The vehicle when  supplied  had covered  39,933  miles in around six years - which is 
somewhat below average. And theres no doubt  Mr G had reported faults from an early 
stage, which  included  white  smoke  and the vehicle  struggling to start from cold.  There have 
been a number of attempts to fix the problems both by C and an independent garage.  Ive 
also seen the inspection report compiled by A. The vehicle mileage is recorded at this stage 
to be 49,968. A reported a number  of issues with the vehicle and that fault codes were  being 
displayed. The report indicated:
a heavy  misfire and rough running  on idle with a light white smoke emanating from the 
exhaust system. There was also a burning, exhaust type odour within the vehicle.
The report  went on:
The engine management light was illuminated and also a warning message illuminated on 
the dashboard "stop vehicle".
A diagnostic  test was carried out which revealed  two fault codes:
P242F "DPF  particulate filter restricted".
P2002 "DPF  efficiency below threshold  bank 1".
A reading  was then taken of the DPF soot content,  which gave a reading  of 110%.
A test drive was then attempted and it was evident at this time that the vehicle was in limp
mode. The vehicle  would  not exceed 40mph during road test.
In conclusion, the report identified a fault with the DPF. It concluded  this was likely to have
been present  or developing at the point of supply.
Ive taken into account what Northridge has said in response to my provisional  decision - 
namely that the vehicle could not have done almost  10,000 miles if the DPF was faulty. This 
appears to be based on comments  it received from C - who informed Northridge its (Cs)  
technical department had supplied this information.
As Ive got conflicting evidence in the form of As report and the opinion of Cs technical 
department I need  to explain  why I think As report is more likely to be reliable. As report  is 
independent - its only role was to provide a report on the condition  of the vehicle. And as it 
has no further involvement with the vehicle - such as undertaking repairs - its not directly 
affected by the findings or recommendations of the report. The report  is the result  of a 
detailed examination of the vehicle conducted for the specific purpose of trying to identify  the 
cause of any faults. Its also accompanied by a statement of truth - which means the writer of 
the report has acknowledged his potential legal responsibilities  as an expert witness.
Whilst Cs technical department may well have  the expertise - it cannot be viewed  as 
independent. Nor has it provided a detailed report - such as As. Its simply commented that 
the vehicle couldnt have  done 10,000 miles with a faulty DPF. And its supplied various job 
sheets for repairs which have been  carried out on the vehicle.
Given that As report is far more comprehensive  - and has produced a conclusion  consistent 
with its findings  of fact - Im entitled to think it is more reliable than the unsubstantiated 
comments of C.
Ref: DRN87395383In addition, Im aware from dealing  with numerous  complaints  which have involved problems 
with a DPF that faults can seriously  compromise a vehicle. But this can range from 
intermittent problems which lower  performance to complete breakdown. Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence  that shows it is impossible - as opposed to merely unusual  - for a 
vehicle to be able to travel substantial distances with such  a fault.
Ive also seen no evidence to support Northridges earlier view that the third party  repairs - 
which Mr G arranged - had a detrimental effect.
Taking the evidence  as a whole, the striking feature is that the visible issues  - which  Mr G 
reported from the outset  - are in line with the findings of As report which was carried  out 
over a year later. So despite several attempts at repair I think  it more  probable  than not that 
whatever the cause  - DPF or something else - the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. Its most unlikely that the same  outward symptoms would be caused by a 
series of unrelated  faults over such a period.  In those  circumstances  and repairs  having 
failed, I think its fair and reasonable for Mr G to reject the vehicle and end the agreement. 
But its also fair that he pays for the use he has obtained.
Im aware Mr G doesnt think he should  have to pay the full amount of the monthly  payments  
due - as hes not had the degree of quality use from the vehicle that he expected.  And that 
hes had interrupted use without always  being provided with an alternative vehicle. Ive taken 
this into account  in reaching my final decision in respect of the appropriate level of redress.
Ref: DRN87395384my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
To settle  this complaint,  I now require N.I.I.B.  Group  Limited trading as Northridge Finance 
to:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr G to pay from date of termination
2.Subject to any payments due from Mr G being made  - arrange  to have the record  of 
the agreement  removed from Mr Gs credit file
3.Collect the vehicle  at no cost to Mr G.
4.Refund the deposit of £100
5.Pay £216, being the cost of the independent vehicle inspection
6.Refund one monthly  payment of £145.34 for impaired use
7.Pay £250 for distress  and inconvenience
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to items, 4, 5 and 6 above from 
date of payment  to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8739538