K821x#15complaint
Mr E has complained that Brightside Insurance Services Limited renewed his car insurance  
policy for the wrong car. Mrs E, a named driver, was stopped by police for driving uninsured. 
Shes assisting her husband  in his complaint.
background
Mr E bought a car insurance policy  through a broker, Brightside in 2017. In July 2018 he 
changed his car and told Brightside. Mr Es policy was updated.  In October 2018 Mr Es 
policy was due for renewal. He discussed  his renewal quote with Brightside. The agent  
incorrectly renewed his policy  using the older cars registration details. 
Mrs E was stopped by police in February 2019  for driving uninsured. Mr E checked the 
policy and realised the error. He complained to Brightside. Mr E accepted  that he didnt 
check his documents.  So he didnt notice  the error until after his wife was stopped by police.
In April 2019 Brightside said that although it was an error by them,  Mr E didnt check  his 
documents  so it said it wouldnt  provide  a letter  of indemnity (from the insurer). It agreed to 
waive a mid term adjustment fee it charged  for updating the policy with the correct car 
registration details  in July 2018.
Brightside said it would consider any fines incurred  as a result  of being stopped by police, 
subject to proof. 
Mr E asked us to look at their complaint.
In July 2019 our investigator asked the insurer of the policy  to provide a letter of indemnity 
for Mrs E. They did this.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. Mr E had contacted  
Brightside in October  2018 and changed  his car. Hed paid an administration fee for the 
change. A call recording provided by Brightside showed that the agent  at renewal   read 
out the previous car registration details during the call. Mr E didnt correct the agent. But the 
investigator didnt  think  it was fair for the onus to be on Mr E to correct the error made by the 
agent. 
He recommended Brightside  pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Brightside didnt  agree. It said it hasnt received any proof Mrs E was stopped by the police. 
And it contacted the insurer and asked them to provide  a letter  of indemnity but theyd 
refused. Brightside  therefore doesnt agree that it should pay any compensation as theres 
no evidence Mr or Mrs E suffered any detriment. It believes its decision to waive the 
administration fee from July 2018 is enough  to put things  right.  
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN83664952Since the investigator issued his view, Mrs E has told us that no action was taken against 
her as the letter of indemnity provided  by the insurer in July 2019 was accepted.  This is 
welcome news. 
Mrs E has provided us with a copy of the notice  she received from the police when she was 
stopped which we have sent to Brightside. She said she was on her way to pick her children 
up from school. Mrs E said the officer instructed her to obtain one day insurance  which  she 
did so that she could continue driving. Mrs E said it was an upsetting and humiliating 
experience. 
I appreciate that Mr E should  have read his policy documents after renewal in October 2018. 
But I think it was reasonable for him to expect the car that was insured was the one hed 
updated Brightside with in July 2018.  It was Brightsides error and so I think  its unfair  to 
place the onus on Mr E for not noticing its mistake. He continued to pay for insurance for a 
car he told Brightside he wanted  to insure  since July 2018. 
So I can understand how upsetting it must  have  been for Mrs E to have been stopped by 
police - and for Mr E to discover  that he and his wife had been  driving  uninsured. Ive no 
doubt the prospect of possible court action has caused Mr and Mrs E worry and distress.  
So I think its fair and reasonable for Brightside  to pay compensation for the distress  its 
caused. Fortunately Mr Es car wasnt seized by the police. And no further action has been  
taken. For these reasons,  I agree with the investigators recommendation of £250 
compensation. 
The investigator has let Brightside know that I also think it should reimburse Mrs E for the 
cost of the one day insurance she paid, which Mrs E has provided  proof  of. I think it should 
pay interest on the cost of the insurance at a rate of 8% simple interest from the date Mrs E 
paid it to the date Brightside reimburses her. Brightside hasnt provided any further 
comment.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Brightside Insurance Services Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr E £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Reimburse Mrs E for the cost of the one day insurance. I think it should pay 
interest on the cost of the insurance  at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from 
the date Mrs E paid for it to the date it reimburses her.
Brightside Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date 
on which we tell it Mr E accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Brightside considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr and Mrs E how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr and Mrs E a tax deduction certificate  if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN83664953Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8366495