K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs unhappy that when an international money transfer was declined  the money was 
taken out of his bank  account and wasnt returned immediately by MoneyGram International 
Limited. He says this left him without funds  for a trip abroad. He wants compensation for a 
ruined holiday  and the stress caused.
background
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Mr G initiated a transaction  on 11 December 2018 and although it was rejected the 
funds were debited  from his bank account the next day. The funds were refunded to 
his account on 14 December 2018.
MoneyGram isnt able to confirm  the exact cause of the failed transaction but there 
are a number of regulations that restrict transactions  to the country Mr G was 
sending the money to. And it says its possible that one of these rules  mayve been 
triggered causing the funds to reject.
If Mr G had paid in cash  the refund wouldve been processed  and the money 
returned immediately.  But as he paid on his debit card through the banking system 
the refund  had to be processed through  this system. Unfortunately  that isnt an 
instant process and MoneyGram couldnt  return the funds immediately.
Although this was frustrating for Mr G, MoneyGram hasnt acted  unfairly. The delay in 
the money being refunded  was due to the system processing time not a failure by 
MoneyGram.
Mr G remains  unhappy and says MoneyGram hasnt acted fairly. In summary he says it 
shouldve dealt with him better when he questioned what  had happened.  It should take 
responsibility and compensate  him. There wasnt any excuse for withholding  his money  even 
for a single minute.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Gs frustration at what happened. But Ive seen nothing to suggest  the short 
delay in him getting the refund of the funds was caused by anything MoneyGram did or 
didnt do. Although it cannot explain exactly why the transaction was declined it has 
suggested it may be because of regulations  restricting transfers to the country Mr G was 
sending the money  to. And the short delay in the money being refunded to his bank  account  
was as a result of the banking processing system.  
Mr G says that the short delay in him getting  the money refunded affected his holiday and 
left him without money. But that isnt born out by his bank account statement which shows 
that even after the funds  were taken he had a positive balance and a significant  amount of  
money in the account until the money was refunded a couple  of days later.
Ref: DRN83547062In addition the terms and conditions he signed  to make the transfer refer in a number of 
places, including  under  a heading about refunding a transfer, to the process  being  handled  
promptly and in any event within 30 days.  No where is an instant refund promised in the 
situation Mr G found  himself in. So, it appears  Money Gram has acted in line with its terms 
and conditions.
The terms and conditions  also say under  the heading about  liability  that MoneyGram will not 
be liable  for any incidental, indirect, special or consequential losses or costs  Mr G suffered.
Taking everything into account  Im not convinced, on balance,  that MoneyGram has done 
anything wrong  and I agree with the investigator  that the delay of a couple  of days in the 
money being refunded appears likely to have  been  caused by the banking system and not 
by anything MoneyGram did wrong.
As such,  although  I recognise Mr Gs strength of feeling, I dont think  I can fairly or 
reasonably require MoneyGram to pay Mr G any compensation as hed like. And I dont  see 
any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8354706