K820x#14complaint
Mr B took out a Gold Added Value Account  (GAVA)  with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) in 
October 2010 and he says it was mis-sold.
background
Mr B took out the following accounts  with Lloyds:
Account Type Date of sale/change
Current Fee free February 1992
Gold AVA Fee charged October 2010
Gold AVA + Club Lloyds Fee charged June 2014
Current + Club LloydsFee free (if criteria met for 
Club Lloyds)November 2018
Mr B says that he that he took out the GAVA because he believed  he had no choice and he 
thought a fee free account wasnt available to him. He says that he didnt use the benefits of 
the GAVA and it was unsuitable  for him.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Lloyds mis-sold the account. Mr B disagrees so the case has 
come to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Bs complaint.
Ill first consider whether Mr B knew he had a choice about taking out the GAVA; then 
whether Lloyds acted  correctly when making the sale.
Lloyds has provided  evidence that Mr B had had a fee free bank account for many  years 
before he took out the GAVA.  He was an experienced  user of banking  facilities and fee free 
bank accounts  were widely advertised and available from Lloyds  and other financial 
institutions. So, while I dont doubt  his honest recollections, I think  its more likely than not 
that his memory  is mistaken and he would have  been aware that fee free bank accounts 
were available to him from Lloyds  and others  at the time of the sale.  
So in my view he was aware he had a choice  about  whether  to take out the GAVA for a 
monthly fee or not and he chose to do so.
Lloyds advised  Mr B to take out the GAVA which was sold in a branch. So the requirement 
on Lloyds was to provide  sufficient information  to Mr B to make an informed choice about the 
GAVA and to check whether the policy was suitable  for him.
The GAVAs  benefits  include  worldwide travel  insurance, AA car breakdown cover (whether 
the driver  or owner  of the car or not), mobile  phone insurance, and Sentinel card protection. 
The GAVA cost £12 per month.
Ref: DRN83184392I dont know exactly how the GAVA was presented to Mr B but Lloyds  was trying to sell Mr B 
the account so I think its more likely  than not that Lloyds  explained  the benefits in some 
detail.  Lloyds provided Mr B with a booklet about the GAVA,  and Mr B used some of the 
benefits, for example registering for the mobile phone  insurance.
So I think its more likely  than not that he knew enough about what he was buying  for him to 
decide that it was worth  his while to do so, and that if he knew  more  it wouldnt have put him 
off buying the GAVA.
When he took out the GAVA, Lloyds  needed  to ensure it was suitable  for him. I dont know  
how well it did this, but Lloyds evidence shows Mr B travelled abroad more  than three times 
a year and he had the benefit of the AA car breakdown whether he was the owner or driver 
of a car or not. Mr B registered for and was covered by the mobile  phone  insurance and 
there was no aspect of the GAVAs benefits  that he wasnt eligible for. So I think  the GAVA 
was suitable for him. 
In response to our adjudicators view Mr B says he had a significant medical condition from 
before the sale in October 2010  that might  have excluded him from using the travel 
insurance. However the travel insurance didnt exclude pre-existing medical conditions,  it 
only required  the applicant to declare them. Im aware of the nature of Mr Bs medical  
conditions and I think its more likely  than not he would have obtained cover either for free or 
for a small additional premium if hed tried to use his GAVA travel insurance.
Mr B also says that the travel insurance  didnt provide cover for independently booked 
accommodation or trips that were  longer  than 31 days which he needed. However again Mr 
B couldve obtained these for an additional  premium  if he wished, and this doesnt  in my 
view make the essential part of the travel insurance  cover available unsuitable for him. And 
Im not persuaded that Mr B would have been put off taking out the GAVA  had he known 
fully about the travel  insurance.
So overall, I dont  think that Lloyds mis-sold the GAVA to Mr B or that he lost out as a result 
of anything Lloyds  did or didnt  do.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8318439