K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds  (DAS) 
service when he claimed on his breakdown cover policy.
Reference to DAS includes its agents.
background
Mr D was riding his motorbike when he broke down late at night. Mr D said the place where  
he broke down was unsafe.  He called DAS for help. It told him that because of excessive 
demand that evening it couldnt find a recovery agent to help him.
Some hours later it rang him and told him that the best it could do would be to move  his bike 
to a safe location. Mr D opted to remain with his bike.  In the morning a recovery  agent was 
able to take him home.
Mr D complained. DAS agreed that it hadn't got everything right and offered Mr D £50 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. Mr D didnt think that went far enough  and 
brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator thought DAS had done  enough  to put things 
right. Mr D didnt agree  so his complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Mr Ds policy  says that if DAS can't sort out repairs that day it will arrange to take Mr D and 
his bike home. But it adds that if it can't recover his bike then he can reclaim the costs of a 
nights accommodation.
I understand it was already late when Mr D broke down. And it was past midnight when DAS 
said it could take his bike into safe storage. Mr D says that DAS told him hed have to make  
his own arrangements for overnight accommodation. And as he didnt know where  the bike 
would be taken to and arranging accommodation would be difficult he decided  it was a safer 
option to spend the night with his bike.
I can understand that Mr D is unhappy  that he didnt  get the service  he paid for. That is DAS 
didnt recover him and his bike to his home  address. And I can also understand that this 
must have  been  frustrating for him. That said Im aware that there are likely to be times of 
high demand where it's not possible for DAS to affect a recovery. And I think  thats  why his 
policy says that where DAS isnt able to take him home it will pay for a nights 
accommodation. So the policy recognises it won't  always be able to arrange to recover  its 
policyholders to their home address and provides specific cover,  in terms of reimbursing 
accommodation costs,  when that happens.
Mr D said that DAS didn't  tell him it would cover  the costs of a nights accommodation and 
said hed have to make his own arrangements. But Mr Ds policy  doesn't say that DAS will 
arrange overnight accommodation.  It says it will reimburse the costs of that. So in line with 
the policy terms Mr D would have  had to make his own arrangements  for accommodation. 
And it appears that Mr D was more concerned about the logistics of arranging  overnight 
accommodation rather than the costs involved.  And when DAS offered to move his bike to a 
Ref: DRN82151522garage overnight Mr D told it that hed already  moved his bike to a safer  location and would 
prefer to stay with his bike. So I'm not persuaded that DAS offering to reimburse the costs of 
accommodation would have changed  Mr Ds mind about what he preferred to do. And I note 
DAS did offer to reimburse any accommodation costs Mr D had incurred when  it replied to 
his complaint. It follows that I think it dealt with Mr D in line with the terms of his policy. It also 
offered him £50 for the distress and inconvenience,  which I think was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8215152