K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that FCE Bank plc, trading as Ford Credit, has recorded a default on his 
credit file. Hes being  helped with his complaint by a representative.
background
A car had been supplied to Mr I under a hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit and he 
was making monthly  payments to it of £209.93.  He settled  that agreement  and made  a 
settlement payment to Ford Credit  in December 2017 which  it says it received in January 
2018. Hed entered into a new hire purchase agreement  with Ford Credit  under which  it 
supplied him with a new car and he agreed  to make monthly payments of £222.16.
A payment of £209.93  was collected from Mr Is account in January 2018  but was credited 
back the same day  and another credit  of £209.93  was made  to his account six days  later.  
Ford Credit claimed a refund of £209.93 from Mr I but he didnt pay it so he was sent a 
default notice  in June 2018  for £222.74.  He didnt pay that amount by the due date so a 
default was recorded on his credit  file and Ford Credit assigned  the debt to a third party.
Mr I complained to Ford Credit in October  2018  and it sent him its final response letter later 
that month.  His representative complained  to Ford Credit in March  2019 and it sent a 
response to that letter. A complaint was then made to this service in April 2019.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. She said that 
Mr Is account had been credited in error and the credit hadnt been returned to Ford Credit 
so he was pursued for the payment  which he was obligated to pay back. She thought that 
Ford Credit could have done better by identifying  the issue  earlier and properly explaining 
the discrepancy on his account. So she recommended  that it should  pay him £100  for the 
poor level of service that it provided.
Mr I has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Hes provided extracts 
from his bank statements  and says, in summary, that for some unknown  reason Ford Credit  
credited his account with £209.93 in January  2018  so has put money into his account by 
mistake causing an over payment which was unknown to him and that an over payment 
does not constitute a default on a credit  agreement.  He says that the credit agreement had 
been settled in December 2017  so he doesnt understand how Ford Credit was allowed to 
register a default.  He says that the default  should be removed from his credit file.
Ford Credit says that Mr Is complaint wasnt made to this service  until more  than six months  
after its final response letter so this service shouldnt be investigating his complaint. It also 
says that it advised  Mr I about the shortfall  verbally  within one day and provided him with 
written information about it within eight working days so it did not fail to properly explain the 
discrepancy on his account  and there should be no payment  of £100. It says that its not at 
fault and Mr I received  excellent customer service. 
Ref: DRN83626292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I complained to Ford Credit in October  2018  about the default that it had recorded  on his 
credit file. It sent him a final response  letter  later that month. His representative complained  
to Ford Credit in March  2019 and it replied to that letter  and said:
Please note that this is our final response. If you are dissatisfied with it you have the 
right to refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service,  free of charge  but 
you must do so within six months of the date of this letter.
A complaint was then made to this service in April 2019  which was within six months of 
Ford Credits October 2018  response to Mr I and its response to his representative  in March 
2019 had said that a complaint could be made to this service within six months  of the date of 
that letter  which would  be by September 2019.  
I consider that Mr I did complain to this service within  six months of Ford Credits final 
response letter so I consider  that this service  does have jurisdiction to consider his complaint.
Its clear that there has been some confusion about  Mr Is account. Mr I made a payment to 
settle his hire purchase agreement which Ford Credit says it received in early January  2018. 
But it says that the direct  debit for the January payment was already in process at that time 
so a payment  of £209.93 was paid to Ford Credit from Mr Is bank account and it credited 
the payment back to his account  the same day. Six days later a further  credit  of £209.93 was 
made to Mr Is account which must have been an error.
That resulted in Mr I receiving £209.93  from Ford Credit to which he wasnt entitled. It asked 
him to repay the money but he didnt do so. A default notice was issued to Mr I in June 2018 
requiring him to pay it £222.74 before a specified  date. He didnt make that payment by the 
due date so a default was recorded  on his credit  file and it assigned the debt to a third party.
There have been  on-going exchanges between Mr I and Ford Credit  about the payment that 
he disputes and the default  that it has recorded on his credit file. I consider that he owed it 
£209.93 because  of an error  that it had made and that it should have done  more to properly 
explain to him the reasons that he owed it £209.93.  Its error, and its failure to properly 
explain the debt,  will have  caused  Mr I some distress and inconvenience. I agree with the 
investigator that it would  be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Ford Credit to 
pay him £100 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
But Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show that the default has been 
recorded incorrectly. The payment of £209.93  was made by Ford Credit  to Mr Is account to 
refund him for the payment that it had taken  from his account under the direct  debit  that had 
been set up to make the payments that were  due under the hire purchase agreement  but 
Ford Credit refunded  that amount to his account twice. I consider  that Mr I ought reasonably 
to have been able to see that hed received £209.93 from Ford Credit to which  he wasnt  
entitled and that it would be reasonable to expect him to have repaid that amount to it. He 
didnt do so, even  after a default notice  had been sent to him, and thats why the default has 
been recorded on his credit file.
Ref: DRN83626293So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  Ford 
Credit to remove the default from Mr Is credit  file  or to take any other  action in response to 
his complaint (other than the payment of £100  referred to above).
my decision
For these reasons my decision is that I uphold Mr Is complaint in part and I order FCE Bank 
plc, trading as Ford Credit, to pay him £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8362629