K822xcomplaint
Ms J complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited  wrongly issued a P60 to 
her late husband. It also used address details that werent correct,  and issued a letter  
addressed to Ms Js late husband.
background 
Ms J has another complaint open with Scottish Friendly,  which  this service is investigating. 
During the course of that complaint, Scottish Friendly issued  a P60 to Ms Js late husband in 
error. The address  on the document was also wrong.
Ms J considered these  were further  examples of Scottish Friendlys  incompetence, and 
raised the current complaint. In responding to the new complaint, Scottish Friendly 
addressed its letter  to Ms Js late husband.
Following the involvement of this service, Scottish  Friendly offered £100 to Ms J, and 
apologised for the mistakes it had made.  It recognised that these wouldve been distressing 
for Ms J.
Our investigator considered the compensation offered by Scottish Friendly, together with its 
apologies, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms J didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, saying  that whilst the complaint wasnt 
driven by the prospect of monetary compensation, she didnt feel the offered amount and the 
way that the mater had been  addressed was satisfactory. Mrs J asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ms J has another complaint against  Scottish Friendly,  which  this service  is 
investigating. For the purpose  of this complaint, Ive only considered Scottish Friendlys 
mistakes in connection with the P60 and letter that were sent to Ms Js late husband in error.
Im mindful, however, that these  mistakes were made during the course of a further 
complaint. And as the P60 and letter were addressed to Ms Js late husband,  I can 
appreciate why she considers Scottish  Friendlys actions were insensitive, and how 
upsetting this matter  will have been  for her.
So I can fully understand why Ms J might consider the compensation offered by Scottish 
Friendly isnt enough. But along with the individual impact of Scottish  Friendlys errors on
Ms J, I must also take account of awards  made by this service in complaints of a similar  
nature. And having done so, Im satisfied that Scottish Friendlys  offer is fair and reasonable.
Scottish Friendly has also offered  its apologies to Ms J  for sending the P60, for using 
incorrect address details on that document, and for sending  the letter addressed to her late 
husband. I also think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN85922292Im satisfied that Scottish  Friendly should pay £100  to Ms J (in addition to the apologies  it 
has offered), but I wont  be asking it to do anything else.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that Scottish  Friendly Assurance Society Limited  should  pay £100  to Ms J.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8592229