K820x#14complaint
Miss S complaint concerns a Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited  life policy. She 
says she was told it would mature with a value of £100,000 but shes  discovered the cover 
has now ended without  value.
background
Miss S was sold the 15 year level term assurance policy in 2003. When she was informed in 
2018 that the policys term had come to end she complained.
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint. It explained  that Miss S had wanted family  protection in 
2003 and the policy provided  this in a suitable manner. It highlighted that the paperwork 
issued to her wouldve  made clear  that the cover was limited to 15 years  a term that suited 
the purpose. And the fact it was a non-standard term also suggested that this issue wouldve 
been discussed. 
Our adjudicator reached the same conclusion as L&G.  He also noted  that the documentation 
had described  the policy  as a term policy of 15 years. And he highlighted that the cost of an 
alternative policy that wouldve guaranteed a payment of £100,000 wouldve been 
considerably more expensive.
Miss S didnt agree with the adjudicator. She said, in brief, that shed  been  vulnerable  at the 
time and had been targeted  by the salesperson. As no agreement could be reached,  the 
matters been  referred  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Miss S disappointment when she received the letter in 2018  telling her that 
her cover was coming to an end. It seems clear  that she understood the policy would 
continue and eventually  provide the sum assured  of £100,000 either at a point of maturity or 
when she passed  away. 
However, the policy didnt work in the way she understood. But I dont  think  theres any basis 
upon which I can hold L&G is responsible  for her misunderstanding. The documentation 
provided to her at the start of the policy set out quite clearly that the policy  was a term one 
and that the cover would  last only for 15 years, with an expiry date of 7 July 2018. 
Ive noted what  Miss S has said about  her vulnerability and circumstances at the time of the 
sale. But the cover  provided  by the policy looks to have been generally suitable  for her and I 
have to take account of the fact that shes maintained the policy throughout its term and in 
fact wishes the cover  to continue. 
As such,  I dont think Im able to make  a finding  that the policy  was unsuitable  for her. I think  
its simply the case that for whatever reason  she was labouring under a misapprehension.  I 
appreciate shell be disappointed Ive reached  the same conclusion as the adjudicator, but I 
nevertheless dont think L&G has done  anything  wrong in respect of her policy.  
Ref: DRN87680482my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8768048