K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 
alongside a credit card. Mr D says Canada Square  Operations Limited, Egg at the time, mis-
sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr D says the PPI was just added  to his account and he thought  it was all part of the 
package. But based on the evidence Ive seen I think Canada Square  made  it clear  that 
Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive seen screen  shots of the application 
process Canada  Square  says Mr D wouldve seen and completed during  his online 
application. These show Mr D wouldve had to select  either yes or no for the PPI before  
submitting his application. Canada Square said the PPI wouldve only been added  to his 
account if he had ticked the yes option  online  and I think thats probably correct.  Ive also 
seen a record of the answers entered during Mr Ds online application and this suggests PPI 
was chosen. 
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if the policy was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed  to decide if the 
PPI was right for him. 
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. Ive also seen that Mr D didnt 
have and sick pay or savings which he couldve relied on if he was suddenly unable to work 
 so I think it would have been  useful  for him if something went wrong. So I dont  think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Canada Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But 
Canada Square  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:  
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Canada  Square didnt 
tell Mr D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN85358002The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8535800