K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is about the handling  of a claim made under her mobile phone  insurance 
policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in January 2019, part of which is copied below: 
In June  2018,  Mrs P made  a claim under the policy for her daughters phone.  The phone 
was damaged and so she sent it to Assurants  repairers. The phone was repaired and sent 
back to Mrs P on 15 June 2018. However,  the phone was lost while in the care of the courier 
company. 
On 18 June 2018, [the courier  company] notified  Assurant that the phone was lost, it said it 
would investigate but to save time, [Assurant] agreed to replace the phone. Assurant told 
Mrs P that it didnt have  a new one of the same make, model and colour  as the original 
phone but it had pristine stock (meaning as good as new)  of the same make model but 
either in black or blue.  
Mrs P declined this. She wanted a brand new phone, as the phone  that was lost was only 
three months old and her daughter  had accessories in the same colour as the phone. Mrs P 
therefore said shed  wait until the outcome of the investigation by the courier company in 
case it found the original.
The original  phone wasnt found  and so a replacement  was sent to Mrs P, however, by then 
a pristine phone was no longer available and she was sent a grade A refurbished phone  
(which apparently means one that is in very good condition  but might  show some signs  of 
use) instead.  Assurant says that the policy terms provide it with the right to provide 
refurbished phones as replacements.  However,  it offered  £25 for the inconvenience caused  
by the loss of the phone.  Initially  Assurant denied that Mrs P had been  told there was a 
pristine phone available but later it admitted it had listened to a recording of the wrong  
telephone call. 
Mrs P was unhappy with this. She says Assurant  was unable to properly explain to her what 
Grade A and pristine meant and the courier company  told her it has reimbursed Assurant  for 
the lost phone. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and recommended that it be upheld.  He 
thought that Assurant should have made clear to Mrs P that the pristine phone it offered her 
at the outset might not be available later. If it had explained this properly,  it may have 
changed what Mrs P did; she may have  accepted  that phone then. He recommended that a 
further £50 (so £75 in total) be paid as compensation.  
Mrs P accepted the investigators assessment but Assurant does not. The matter  has 
therefore been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN89420902The courier  company were acting on behalf of Assurant in delivering the phone back  to    
Mrs P and so it is ultimately liable  for any errors it makes. Therefore it is responsible for the 
loss of the phone. It may have rights against the courier company itself but it has failed to 
deliver back Mrs Ps daughters phone to her. Assurant is therefore responsible for replacing 
the phone  but not as an insurance  claim  it is therefore irrelevant that the policy  terms 
provide that it can use refurbished  stock. The policy terms dont apply  in this instance. It is 
liable to compensate  Mrs P for the loss of the phone.
However, this doesnt mean Assurant has to provide a brand new phone either. What it is 
obliged to do is to provide  a like-for-like replacement. I have little evidence  about the 
condition of Mrs Ps daughters phone,  other than it was three  months old. It seems to me it 
would be reasonable to assume it was in pristine condition and Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest otherwise.  It was also a distinctive colour. 
Im not therefore persuaded that Assurant should  have  sent a brand new phone; it was 
obliged to provide a pristine phone, with the same warranty period, of the same make model 
and colour. Assurant should have tried to source a replacement from wherever it could not 
just from its normal stock.  However, there is also no evidence that this would in fact have 
been possible. 
The replacement Assurant has provided  apparently came  with the same warranty  as Mrs P 
still had on the original phone, but it was not the same  colour  and arguably was not the same  
pristine condition.    
Im not aware there is now any problem with the replacement and Mrs P has had it for some 
time now and has probably  already replaced  the accessories.  I am not therefore  proposing  
that Assurant now send any further  replacement.  It seems to me the most pragmatic solution  
to put this right is for the compensation  [to] be increased to £135 to reflect  the trouble 
caused by the loss of the phone; the fact Assurant should have made  greater endeavours to 
find the appropriate replacement phone; the fact that the phone is not a like-for like 
replacement; and that the accessories bought to match  the original phone, dont match  the 
replacement.   
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and require it to 
pay £135 compensation to Mrs P for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by its handling 
of her claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision, with any further  information  or 
arguments they want considered before I issue my final decision. 
Mrs P has confirmed  she accepts my provisional  decision and has not added anything  
further. 
Assurant has also responded. It doesnt accept my provisional decision. It says it is entitled 
to repair  or replace a phone that is sent in to be repaired, so there was no guarantee that 
Mrs P would have received her original phone back when she sent it in for repair. It was 
unfortunate that it was lost on its way back to Mrs P but the policy says that it can provide 
Ref: DRN89420903refurbished stock as replacements  and this was done promptly as soon as it knew  about the 
loss of the original.  
Although Mrs Ps original  phone was only three  months old, it was used and so can no 
longer be classed as new;  and as it had also been  damaged, it could not be deemed as 
being in a pristine condition. When the phone was damaged the manufacturer's  warranty 
was also voided,  so had Mrs P received  her phone back  it would  no longer be covered under 
this warranty. The replacement it provided was covered by its 12 month warranty, so the 
warranty was the same as that provided  by the manufacturer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  to me that Assurant is still considering this matter as if it is an insurance claim. This 
is not correct. The loss of the phone happened while it was dealing with an insurance claim 
but was an act of negligence  on the part of the courier  acting as Assurants agent. Its 
obligation to rectify the loss to Mrs P does not therefore arise  out of the insurance contract 
but from common law. 
So as mentioned in my provisional decision, it doesnt matter  what  the policy terms say; and 
it doesnt matter that when Mrs P sent the phone in to Assurant it wasnt  certain it would be 
repaired (and might have been replaced  instead). Mrs Ps original phone  was repaired and 
was being returned to her. 
I remain of the opinion therefore,  that Assurant was obliged to put right Mrs Ps loss  which  
was of her original phone. The original phone was a particular make and model in a 
distinctive colour. It was also only three months  old and, having had the damaged  screen 
repaired, I remain of the opinion it is reasonable to assume it was otherwise pristine. 
Assurant didnt provide  a like-for-like replacement, as the phone  it provided was arguably not 
in the same condition  and was not of the right colour. I already accepted in my provisional 
decision that it came with an acceptable warranty. I therefore remain  of the opinion  that the 
appropriate remedy for this is to award Mrs P compensation of £135, to reflect  the trouble 
caused by the loss of the phone; the fact Assurant should have made  greater endeavours to 
find the appropriate replacement phone; the fact that the phone is not a like-for like 
replacement; and that the accessories bought to match  the original phone, dont match  the 
replacement.   
Ref: DRN89420904my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Assurant General Insurance Limited  and require it to pay 
£135 compensation to Mrs P for the distress  and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
her claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8942090