K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say they were misled  about the cover provided by their annual travel  
policy when they raised a forthcoming medical test for Mr M on the policys renewal.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out an annual travel  insurance policy  with Great  Lakes in June 2016 
and in March 2017 they booked a holiday for June  2017.
Unfortunately in April 2017  Mr M experienced some  chest pains and his GP referred him to 
a clinic at the hospital. The clinic  placed  Mr M on the waiting list for an angiogram.  Mr M 
says he was told there could be a long delay before the test was carried  out.
Mr M says he decided  to renew  the policy early  in order to raise  his upcoming test and so 
he rang Great Lakes  in May 2017.  The agent  told Mr M that as he was currently  waiting for 
a test he didnt need to declare  anything.  The agent  then read out the following exclusion 
clause that any undiagnosed medical condition (for example  if waiting for tests, 
investigations or treatment)  this policy will not cover any related claim against Section A 
Cancellation and Curtailment .
Mr and Mrs M agreed to renew the policy until June  2018.
Around two weeks  before Mr and Mrs M were due to depart for their holiday Mr M had his 
angiogram. This revealed that Mr M required surgery and his surgeon  told Mr M that he 
shouldnt travel until he had recovered from his operation. Mr and Mrs M cancelled their 
trip and made a claim  to Great Lakes  for the lost cost of their holiday.
Great Lakes declined their claim.  It said that Mr Ms GP had recorded  that he had been  
diagnosed with angina in April 2017 when  hed been referred for the angiogram and that 
he had failed to declare this when hed renewed the policy in May 2017. Great Lakes  said 
that had Mr M raised this health condition then he would have been asked a further  set of 
questions to assess the risk.  It was possible that cover might have been declined.  
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with Great Lakes. They said Mr M hadnt been given a diagnosis in 
April 2017 but that it had been given later in June when the angiogram which had shown  
that surgery was required  for a heart condition. They also said theyd raised the fact that 
Mr M was on a waiting list for a test when  theyd renewed the policy in May. Great Lakes 
investigated Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Great Lakes didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that looking at the time line of events  Mr M 
was aware that he was awaiting  an angiogram in April 2017. It also said that on listening 
to the call between  Mr M and the agent hed spoken with in May 2017 the agent had 
followed the correct  process. The agent  had correctly told Mr M that any undiagnosed  
health conditions,  or conditions  that were still under investigation, wouldnt be declared  on 
the policy. The agent had also read out that the exclusion clause for any undiagnosed 
conditions that were either  being investigated or were awaiting tests  wouldnt be covered.
Mr and Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that 
their complaint should be upheld. He said the agent  had read out the exclusion term 
about undiagnosed conditions not being  covered which Mr M had acknowledged  and 
then proceeded  to renew the policy.
Ref: DRN84764672Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy about  our investigators view. They said the agent hadnt  
focused on or discussed the information Mr M had given about  his upcoming medical 
test, nor had the agent been clear  that if the test had shown anything there would be no 
cover. They  said the agent was dismissive about the information Mr M had tried to give 
them while renewing.
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision along the following 
lines. 
Id seen a copy  of the policy and listened  to the call between Mr M and the agent in 
May 2017 when  the policy was renewed.
It was agreed that during  that call Mr M didnt tell the agent that hed been diagnosed with 
angina, but I wasnt surprised by that. Mr M had gone to his GP for symptoms of chest pain 
and been referred  to a clinic at the hospital  for investigation as to the cause. At this 
hospital appointment Mr M had been referred  for an angiogram. Id seen the letter  from the 
hospital to Mr M, which  was sent one week after his appointment,  confirming his name  had 
been added  to the waiting list for an angiogram. Mr M said he was told he could have  a 
long wait for the test which was what  he told the agent on the phone.
Mr Ms GP declared on the medical form that Mr M had been diagnosed with angina  on the 
same day as his first appointment at the hospital clinic. I thought  it was more likely than not 
that this was an error as a letter from the consultant  sent after the test said that following 
the diagnostic angiogram it had been  revealed  that Mr M required surgery for a heart  
condition. So I thought Mr M wasnt given any formal diagnosis  when hed attended  the 
hospital in April 2017, but he was told he would need a further test. Mr M said that the 
cause of his chest  pain was only diagnosed once the angiogram had been conducted in 
June 2017 and I thought the medical  correspondence corroborated  that. I didnt think Mr M 
had withheld  any diagnosis from the agent when hed renewed his policy.
So I thought  that at the time of the phone call renewing the policy Mr M had an as yet 
undiagnosed health condition which had been under investigation and which  later resulted 
in the need for the holiday to be cancelled.
I thought Mr M was clear  with the agent  that he had an upcoming health test when asked if 
either he or Mrs M had been the subject of any medical referrals or investigations.  Mr M 
had freely volunteered the information but the agent didnt ask any questions about the 
nature of the test. The agent said in response that If you are still waiting we dont need to 
declare anything ok and then said Mr M was not to worry  about  it. The agent then moved  
on to read out the exclusion clause that claims arising from any undiagnosed conditions 
would not be covered.
But I didnt think the agent was clear  as to how this exclusion linked to the information 
Mr M had provided about his awaited  test. I agreed with Mr M that the agent gave the 
impression that there was nothing  to declare while the test was awaited, so it was then 
confusing to be given information  about  exclusions which couldve potentially  apply  to 
Mr M without  some  additional explanation.
I thought it was reasonable that Mr M believed hed done all that he was required to do 
when he renewed  the policy. I thought the agent shouldve addressed what  the 
implications of being under investigation could mean  to Mr M. Simply reading  out the 
Ref: DRN84764673exclusion clause wasnt sufficient after theyd given the impression the information Mr M 
had given wasnt required and wouldnt  affect the cover. I could understand why Mr M 
thought the wording of the exclusion terms hadnt  applied to his situation.
Had Mr and Mrs M been aware then they said they wouldve  sought  cover elsewhere. I 
accepted this was what wouldve happened  as the purpose of the phone  call had been to 
ensure that the upcoming medical test wasnt going to have an impact  on their travel 
insurance cover. I was aware that most  policies wont cover undiagnosed health conditions 
that are being investigated.  I also thought that this was reasonable for insurers as the risk 
cant be measured. So I didnt think Mr and Mrs M wouldve been  able to locate  alternative  
cover, to cover the as yet undiagnosed condition, for their forthcoming  holiday.
Mr and Mrs M said that if they hadnt been able to get cover they wouldve cancelled their 
trip. I accepted that travel  insurance  was important to them so I thought it was something  
they wouldve  thought about  doing. And if they had cancelled before the diagnosis,  then 
any claim for the costs of a cancelled holiday wouldve fallen under the annual policy they 
took out in June 2016.
But cancellation cover  was provided  if changes  of circumstances beyond your control arise 
for a number of set reasons one of which was unforeseen illness. It was a further 
requirement of this term that a medical  practitioner  provided a medical certificate stating that 
this illness  prevented you from travel. As Mr Ms health condition was, at that time, 
undiagnosed and there was no urgency suggested about the angiogram I was satisfied that 
unfortunately Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have been able to fulfil the conditions  set out to make a 
cancellation claim. Waiting for the angiogram wouldnt have prevented Mr M from travelling 
and he wasnt medically advised not to travel. That advice was only given once the 
angiogram had been done and a full diagnosis and treatment plan had been  made.
Mr M received his diagnosis after the start of the new policy year.  But he still wouldnt have 
been able to make a claim under the new policy, even if by that point he had a reason to 
cancel his holiday, because of the undiagnosed conditions exclusion which  applied  when  
he had taken the new policy out.
So as Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have been able to make a claim under either the 2016  or 
2017 policies  I needed to consider if theyd have been eligible to receive any of the cost of 
their holiday  back from the holiday operator had they cancelled sooner than they actually 
did. As was usual  the holiday operator charges  a cancellation fee and this amount  was on a 
sliding scale  up to 100%  of the holiday cost depending on the amount of notice given for the 
cancellation.
Mr and Mrs M were  going on holiday in the last week of June 2017; Mr M had phoned and 
spoken to Great Lakes  in the middle  of May. Had the agent  been clearer that there  was 
potentially no cover under the renewed  policy then Mr and Mrs M said they wouldve looked 
for another policy.  This wouldve taken them some time as there werent  polices that 
wouldve offered  the necessary cover for Mr M. As cancelling a holiday was a big decision,  I 
thought it was more likely  than not they wouldve deferred that decision until after the 
angiogram in June  as Mr M said he hadnt been given the impression anything was really  
wrong. It was a possibility  that nothing would be found and Mr and Mrs M couldve then 
enjoyed their holiday as theyd planned. It wouldve  made sense for them to have ensured 
they needed to cancel before doing so.
I thought it was likely  that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have cancelled their holiday  until they 
were advised Mr M couldnt  travel  by his doctor. And by this time the holiday operator  
Ref: DRN84764674wouldve applied the 100% of the holiday cost cancellation fee meaning Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have been eligible for any refund.
So based  on all the evidence I was satisfied that although Great Lakes  wasnt as clear  as 
it should have  been with Mr and Mrs M this hadnt  result in them being financially 
disadvantaged. I wasnt intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  I appreciated that 
this would be of a disappointment to them.
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy about  my provisional  decision. They  say that due to being 
poorly advised by the Great Lakes agent they were unable to claim for their cancelled  
holiday. They say that had they been aware  of the lack of cover  for Mr Ms undiagnosed 
health condition  there wouldve been  time to be able to consider their options.  They  feel 
that the implication  of my provisional decision is that it is acceptable for an insurance 
broker to be excused  for giving inadequate advice, to the disadvantage of the customer.
Great Lakes hasnt responded  to my provisional  view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Ms are disappointed with my provisional decision  I 
havent changed my mind. I agreed  with Mr and Mrs M that the agent shouldve  been clear 
than they had been. But I have to decide what the impact was on Mr and Mrs M of not 
receiving clearer information  and whether it was reasonable to think  that they wouldve acted 
differently.
For the reasons  set out above I dont think Mr and Mrs M wouldve  been able to make a valid 
claim for their cancelled holiday on either the 2016 or 2017  policy  that theyd taken out with 
Great Lakes.  So to obtain cover for Mr Ms undiagnosed health  condition  Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve needed to find an alternative  policy. And Im not aware of any policies that would 
cover conditions that were  yet to be diagnosed. But even  if there  had been, taking into 
account the amount of time there  was before  the holiday  and that Mr M hadnt been led to 
believe he was unwell  I think  its unlikely that Mr and Mrs M wouldve tried to arrange 
different cover.
 
For the reasons  given  above I also dont think they wouldve decided to cancel their holiday 
earlier than they did. This means they wouldnt have  been able to claim any of the holiday 
costs back from the holiday operator due to the applicable cancellation fee.
So although  the advice provided by Great Lakes was inadequate  I dont think  that in the 
circumstances of this particular case that it disadvantaged  Mr and Mrs M. Im sorry that this 
has clearly been  a stressful time for both Mr and Mrs M. But I dont think  they wouldve been 
able to recoup  their holiday  costs even if they had been aware of the lack of cover  for Mr Ms 
undiagnosed health condition. So Im not asking Great Lakes to do more and Im not 
upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.    
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN84764675Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8476467