K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that Ageas Insurance Limited has recorded a claim under their 
home insurance on the Claims Underwriting Exchange Database (CUE) when they had only 
made an enquiry.
background
Mr C rang Ageas when  his wife noticed  that a stone was missing from her diamond  ring. He 
was advised that the loss would likely be covered under the personal possessions part of 
the policy. Having  considered the matter Mr C decided it wasnt  worth  pursuing the claim and 
Ageas recorded  it as withdrawn.
When they received  their renewal Mr and Mrs C were upset to note that their premium  had 
increased. They moved their insurance to another company but it still affected their premium.  
They found  out that the entry on CUE  was marked as a claim withdrawn. They contacted  
Ageas who said it couldnt  amend the database but it did tell them  that its internally it had 
marked the claim as an enquiry only, and supplied a letter to that effect.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr C made to Ageas when he made his enquiry about the loss of a 
stone from the ring. It was logged  as a claim, although he was told he could decide  not to 
proceed, and he later advised Ageas he wasn't proceeding. Technically the record  on CUE  
is correct, although  I appreciate  that Ageas has told Mr and Mrs C it is logged as an enquiry 
on its internal database
Unfortunately if an insurer  is told about  a loss it has to record  it, whether or not it proceeds  to 
a full claim. Although I note that the insurer Mr and Mrs C went  to did look at CUE, most 
insurers wont do so at application stage. Instead they rely on consumers to tell them of any 
losses. In most cases the question on the application form will be along the lines of have 
you suffered any losses (whether insured or not) within the last five years?
So its my view that Mr and Mrs C would be required to advise of the loss whether it was 
recorded on CUE or not. Insurers have to record losses on the database whether it is in the 
form of an enquiry or a claim. So it wouldnt  be appropriate for me to tell Ageas to remove 
the reference from CUE.
Ive noted that Ageas  supplied a letter  to Mr and Mrs C confirming it had logged the claim as 
an enquiry only, and that their new insurers werent prepared to look at it. I cant  say what 
other insurers attitude might be to such a letter as they may have different views  about likely 
risk. And whilst Im not considering a complaint  against Mr and Mrs Cs new insurer, who 
Mr and Mrs C could complain to if they wished, I think its likely  that it is the actual loss rather 
than the way it was recorded that has affected their premiums. As Mr and Mrs Cs new 
insurer explained to them; an incident still occurred which, as it was one of its rating factors, 
it took into consideration when calculating its premium. An insurer  can still take the view that 
a loss, whilst  not leading to a successful  claim still represents an increased  risk.
Ref: DRN89767542So I dont  propose  to ask Ageas to take any action.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8976754