K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that he received poor service when he made a claim under a boiler  
insurance policy provided by Amtrust Europe Limited. 
Amtrust uses  a third party as a claims administrator to manage claims made against its 
insurance policies.  It is this third party thats been  corresponding  with Mr R, but for ease of 
reference, all mentions of Amtrust should  be taken  to include the administrator.
background 
In September  2018, Mr Rs boiler  developed a fault.  He contacted Amtrust and an engineer 
attended his home. The engineer determined that a new part was needed for repair. An 
appointment was made for two days time,  by which point the part was expected  to be in 
stock.
Mr R took a day off work for this further appointment. But he received a call in the afternoon  
of that day to say the part had gone missing  in the warehouse  so the engineer wouldnt be 
able to attend. Another appointment  was made  for three days later.
By the time of that second appointment, the part was still missing  and a replacement 
appears not to have  arrived.  So Amtrust contacted Mr R again and made yet another  
appointment, for two days later. That appointment was successful and the boiler was 
repaired, a week  after the initial inspection and five days after the first repair appointment.
Mr R complained about the service hed received. Amtrust offered £40 compensation for the 
delays and cancellations at short notice, but Mr R didnt  feel that adequately reflected the 
trouble and upset  hed been caused.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and agreed that Mr R had experienced poor 
customer service.  He recommended that the compensation payment be increased to £100,  
which Amtrust  accepted.  Mr R didnt agree that this was sufficient, so the complaints been  
referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Amtrust provided  poor service, or that Mr R was inconvenienced by 
the multiple appointments and the short notice of cancellation. What Ive been  asked to 
decide is what would be suitable compensation for that poor service.
Mr Rs said he had to take two extra days off at short  notice because  of the late 
cancellations and delays. And this caused him some problems at work. Mr R estimates he 
lost over £200 as a result of the extra time off  and hed like to be compensated for that.
When something goes  wrong,  such as a boiler  breaking, its reasonable to expect that there 
will be some  inconvenience and expense caused  by having to deal with it. So I wouldnt look 
to directly link compensation to the time off Mr Rs had to take  because  the boiler  fault 
would always have  caused some impact, regardless of how Amtrust  dealt  with the claim.
Ref: DRN83040652But I can see that Mr Rs position was made  worse  by Amtrusts error in mislaying  the part 
twice, and by the short  notice of the cancellations.  So in this case I do think  some 
compensation was due  and I agree that £100  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I say this because  the boiler was repaired within a week of the initial  engineers visit - so 
although it took longer than Amtrust first suggested, I dont think  the delay was unreasonably 
long. And I can see that Amtrust did take steps  to contact Mr R as soon as it became aware 
of problems. So while I appreciate the short notice was frustrating for Mr R, I dont think  
Amtrust could have notified him any sooner.
I understand Amtrust  has recently issued  a cheque for £60, to take the total compensation 
paid to Mr R up to £100. Its not clear whether Mr R has cashed  this - if he hasnt and the 
cheque has now expired, Amtrust should reissue  it.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint  and direct Amtrust Europe Limited  to pay Mr R a total of £100  in 
compensation, if it hasnt  already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8304065