K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) didnt correctly open a savings account hed 
applied for in both his and his wife  Mrs Rs  names as joint account holders. Hes also 
unhappy funds  werent transferred out of the account to a building  society  when he made  a 
faster payment  in the branch.
This complaint has previously been dealt with by our service as two separate complaints. 
But as the issues  involved are closely linked, Ill be dealing with both issues together  in this 
one decision.  
background
Mr Rs said in August 2018, he and his wife sold a property and received around £250,000 
for the sale. Hes explained  this money  was deposited into a joint account he held with 
Mrs R. Due to a delay  in the purchase of a new property, Mr Rs says they wanted to earn a 
higher interest  rate on the money,  so they visited a branch  of Lloyds to set up a new account 
in both of their names. 
Mr Rs said in the meeting  with the bank, he was told the account  had been set up but it had 
only been set up in his name. Hes explained he and Mrs R wanted the account in both of 
their names so the compensation limit provided by the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS)  would be higher.  For accounts in one persons name, hes said the limit is 
£85,000. And he was worried that if something should happen to him, Mrs R would only be 
covered up to this limit  and the remainder of the £250,000 would be difficult  for her to 
obtain. 
Mr Rs told us he visited Lloyds again  and explained  he wanted Mrs Rs name added onto 
the account. But it wasnt done   and he was subsequently told more  than once (wrongly,  
Lloyds now says) that it couldnt be done.  Hes said hes not been  given  a satisfactory 
answer as to why. 
In order to reduce  their losses if something  did go wrong, Mr Rs said he decided to transfer  
£20,000 to an account he held with a building society. Hes explained he did this in branch 
and hes given us a receipt to show the faster payment had gone through.  But around 
December 2018,  he said he discovered from looking at his latest  statement  that the money 
hadnt been transferred. Hes unhappy  that this happened  and that Lloyds didnt make him 
aware the transfer hadnt gone  through. Hes said he had to take the money out of his 
account in cash  and manually transfer  it to the building society.
Lloyds responded to Mr Rs complaint in January 2019. It apologised for not setting up the 
account in both his and Mrs Rs names. It said it thought this was down to colleague error 
and it couldnt  give him a more detailed explanation as to why this had happened.  It offered 
him £100 compensation for the error and to add Mrs R to the account  but Mr R declined. 
Lloyds also said the faster payment  of £20,000  had been rejected by the receiving building 
society with the reason  that the terms and conditions of the account didnt allow  the payment 
to be credited. So it didnt think it was responsible for the transfer not going  through.
Ref: DRN82019432Unhappy with Lloyds  response, Mr R contacted our service. Our investigator didnt uphold  
the complaint  as he thought Lloyds  offer to put things right was fair and he didnt think the 
explanation itd given was unreasonable. He also thought Mr R shouldve  been aware the 
transfer didnt  take place   and Lloyds wasnt obliged to tell him itd been returned. Mr R 
didnt agree with their opinion so the complaint  was passed to me to reach a decision.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2019. I explained I didnt think  this 
complaint should  be upheld  in summary because:
I thought the account was set up in Mr Rs name only  so I thought  one of his and 
his wifes aims (to earn a higher interest rate) were met. 
I thought Mr R had misunderstood how the FSCS works  and what  its there to 
protect. In any event,  I thought the temporary  high balance he and Mrs R wanted to 
protect wouldve  been covered by the FSCS  for up to six months as it was less than 
£1 million.
I understood it was important to Mr R for Mrs R to have access to the account should 
anything happen  to him  and her not being  on the account had caused him distress. 
But I didnt think hed lost out financially  and nothing  had gone wrong in the way he 
was worried about. So I thought the offer Lloyds had made was fair considering  the 
stress and inconvenience  caused  and the actual  impact the situation had on Mr R.
I understood Mr R wanted to know exactly why something had gone wrong. But I 
didnt think it was unreasonable  Lloyds  had accepted what  he said had happened 
and put things right in the way it had. And whilst its unfortunate, I thought mistakes 
can happen due to human  error.  
From  everything Id seen, including  what Mr R had said, I thought it was more  likely 
the building  society  refused the transfer he attempted to make of £20,000. So I didnt  
think Lloyds was responsible for what had gone wrong. 
I didnt think Lloyds  was responsible  for getting  in touch with Mr R to tell him the 
payment had been returned. But even if it had told him earlier,  I thought he wouldve 
been inconvenienced in the same way as he wouldve still had to make the manual 
transfer as it wasnt accepted  by the building society. And considering the amount of 
time that had passed before he was made aware,  I didnt think  it wouldve made a 
significant difference if hed been alerted earlier. 
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. Lloyds 
responded to say it accepted my decision and didnt have any further comments  to make. 
Mr R sent us a letter  explaining his thoughts. In summary, he said:
he thought  the people  in branch  were just doing  their job and he was concerned they 
would now have  to take the blame for what went wrong with the account
he doesnt understand why so much difficulty was caused just so he could move 
funds from one joint account with Lloyds to another
no compensation would make  up for the stress  hed experienced. And he thought the 
issues shouldve been escalated from the beginning
Ref: DRN82019433there was no assurance that hed be covered  and Lloyds wouldnt just follow  its 
standard procedure   if something  had gone  wrong
he wanted Lloyds  to know the staff had been very helpful and efficient
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  about  the additional 
comments Mr R has made. Whilst I understand its going to be very disappointing for him, I 
still dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr R thinks the staff in branch were just doing  their job and following procedure.  And he 
doesnt understand why there  needed to be so much hassle caused for him to open a new 
joint account and move the funds across. I appreciate Mr Rs point but I do think its more 
likely something went wrong  here as Lloyds has said it shouldve been able to set up the 
account correctly  and its now able to. And I dont think  the reason its given for something 
going wrong is unlikely. So I agree, the stress  and inconvenience Mr R was put through 
shouldnt have happened. But for the reasons Ive given  above and in my provisional 
decision, I think Lloyds  offer makes up for this. 
I understand Mr R doesnt think the compensation makes up for what hes been through. 
And there was no guarantee  Lloyds wouldve been  able to do anything  if things had gone  
wrong in the way he was worried about. But I cant consider what mightve  been when 
considering the fairest  way to put things right. And looking at what  actually happened,  
together with what I know about Mr Rs circumstances  and the distress  and inconvenience  
he was caused,  I think the compensation offered is fair.
Overall, having looked  at the responses Ive received, I see no reason to change  my 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. Whilst I understand Mr R has been  through a 
stressful time, I dont think Lloyds has treated him unfairly  in this case. So for the same  
reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 
9 September 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8201943