K821x#15complaint
Mrs A is unhappy about the service she received from Union  Reiseversicherung AG (URV)
when contacting for support under her travel insurance policy  after her son, Mr A, suffered
an injury whilst abroad on holiday.
Mrs A is bringing this complaint as the policyholder. Mr A is a minor,  and had the benefit  of
the policy. All references to URV  include its claims handlers.
background
Mrs A took out travel insurance to cover herself and her family   including  Mr A  when 
going on a two week holiday commencing 20 July 2018.
Whilst on holiday Mr A accidently injured his arm. At the time he was seven years of age.
After an initial examination by a doctor  at the hotel, Mr A was taken  to an emergency
hospital to understand the extent  of his injury, and for treatment. This transpired  to be a
private hospital. Mr A was subsequently  transferred to a second hospital  for further
investigation, which unbeknownst to Mrs A at the time, was also a private hospital (the
private hospital).
An X-ray revealed that Mr A had fractured his left humeral bone. The private  hospital
advised he required urgent surgery. Mrs A contacted URV to let it know  what had happened.
She also informed it that Mr As operation had been  scheduled for the next morning. Based
on the information that the private  hospital had requested  Mr As European health insurance
(E111) card on arrival,  URV told Mrs A that she was probably at a public hospital.
On the morning of the operation URV  discovered that Mr A was at a private  hospital.  It
informed Mrs A that if Mr A was well enough  to be transferred  to a public hospital she would
be responsible  for the cost of the operation if it went ahead at the private hospital. Thats
because the policy didnt cover private  medical  expenses.
Subsequently Mr A was transferred to a public  hospital  and his operation  didnt take place
until 28 July 2018   two days later.
URV initially said it had given Mrs A the correct advice prior to her taking the decision to
transfer Mr A to the public  hospital. However,  given Mr As age, it accepted it couldve
handled the situation more sensitively. It apologised for that and offered £200 by way of
compensation. Mrs A was unhappy with that and brought  a complaint to us.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She recommended URV pay £1,000  as compensation
for trouble and upset. She also said that:
-as Mrs A and Mr A were confined to hospital following Mr As injury on 25 July 2018,
URV should consider claims for effective curtailment and the hospital inconvenience
benefit provided for by the policy; and
-if Mr A needed any further treatment  on his elbow, URV  should consider whether
there were any provisions in the policy to cover  this.
URV replied  confirming that it wouldnt agree  to consider any further treatment  costs  for Mr A
now that he was back in the UK. Thats because the policy  ended  once  Mrs A and her family
Ref: DRN85894042were back  in the UK. However, it agreed to everything else shed recommended.  URV has
also confirmed that the claim Mrs A made  for costs incurred for treatment at the two private
hospitals Mr A attended had been paid, less the policy excess.
Mrs A didnt agree with the amount of compensation our investigator recommended.  She
said compensation in excess  of £5,000  better reflected the trouble and upset that had been
caused.
The complaint was passed  to me to look at everything afresh. I issued my provisional 
decision explaining  why I was intending  to uphold the complaint and award £2,000  to 
compensate Mrs A and Mr A for the trouble and upset URV caused. In response,  Mrs A 
provided some further comments and recent  photos  of Mr As scars. She would also like 
URV to provide  a written  apology  to Mr A. URV hasnt replied to my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it. Ill explain 
why. 
URV was aware  that Mr As operation was scheduled to take place around noon on
26 July 2018.  URVs  call notes show that when Mrs A was speaking  to one of its
representatives at 11.13am  that morning,  Mr A was still at the private hospital. It was during
this call that Mrs A was told that if the treating doctor advised that Mr A could travel to a
public hospital  shed be responsible for the cost of the operation  at the private hospital, if this
went ahead.
Around an hour later, at 12.18pm, URV had reviewed Mr As medical  information  and
confirmed the surgery was required and should  go ahead. No-one communicated  this to
Mrs A. URV now accepts it shouldve done this.
If Mrs A had been told this, given  the timing of the decision, Im satisfied its likely Mr A
wouldnt have been transferred to the public hospital. And given the medical advice  that Mr A
required urgent  surgery   and that this had already been booked  in for that day - Ive
assumed it wouldve still gone ahead at the private  hospital some time that day.
As it transpired, the operation didnt  take place at the public hospital  until two days  later.
And as a result of the delay,  Mrs A says Mr A suffered unnecessary  pain and distress for a
longer period than necessary. She also says the standard of care he received at the public
hospital wasnt as good as the private hospital.  And that Mr As injuries  havent  healed as
quickly as they wouldve  done if the operation  had taken place earlier; he has a more
pronounced scar and hed lost the sensation in two fingers.
Ref: DRN85894043the public  hospital:
I accept if URV had contacted Mrs A reasonably promptly after taking the decision to
approve the surgery at the private  hospital,  Mr A and Mrs A wouldve avoided  the
unnecessary stress of having to be transferred to a third hospital.  From  what Mrs A was
telling URV  shortly before Mr A was transferred  to the public hospital, he was in a lot of
discomfort. I accept that it wouldve been  stressful for them both to have to move  hospitals
once more  particularly in a country they were unfamiliar with, and not knowing when the
operation would take place.
Mrs A has described the standard  of care Mr A experienced at the public hospital leading  up
to, and after, the operation. We cant hold URV responsible for the standard of public
hospitals in the country  they were  visiting  or the actions of the surgeon or other healthcare
professionals.
However, Mrs A has explained that she wasnt able to accompany Mr A into the operating
theatre. Ive got no reason  to doubt  that had the operation taken place at the private hospital,
she wouldve been able to do so. This wouldve prevented Mr A having to walk to the theatre
room without her. I also accept that not being able to accompany him, wouldve exacerbated
an already distressing situation for Mrs A. And, particularly  given  Mr As age, its likely he
wouldve been more  scared and distressed by not having Mrs A with him on the way to
theatre.
Mrs A also says Mr A was on a mixed ward with adults; one of whom had an open leg
wound and another who was intoxicated and had dislocated his finger and wrist. She also
says an elderly man passed away on the table  next to him. Being in a public  hospital  and 
on a ward with other patients, Im satisfied  Mr A wouldve witnessed people  being treated 
with all sorts of injuries along the lines Mrs A describes. I accept this wouldve  been  
frightening for Mr A  and wouldve caused further distress to Mrs A. Im persuaded that if 
Mr A had stayed at the private hospital  such experiences wouldve been either avoided  or 
more limited - as Ive assumed he wouldve had a private room.
Ive taken into account what Mrs A says about this all happening  on Mr As first holiday
abroad; one that she and her husband  had been  saving  up for some  time. Im satisfied
Mr As injury wouldve somewhat marred  his first holiday experience   and he wouldve
needed to have an operation regardless,  which wouldve been distressful for Mrs A and
Mr A. But Im persuaded that the distress and worry they both went  through  was
exacerbated by URV not telling Mrs A that it had agreed to fund Mr As medical treatment  at
the private hospital. If it had promptly done  this, Mr A wouldnt have  been  transferred to the
public hospital.
the healing process  and follow up treatment:
Ive seen a letter from Mr As consultant orthopaedic surgeon dated April 2019 to a
consultant plastic  surgeon which requests Mr As left upper arm scar be reviewed. He says
Mr A sustained an injury whilst on holiday  in July 2018 and:
this was treated  after a slight delay with k wire fixation. Unfortunately  due to the
delay, he developed significant swelling  and therefore fracture  blisters  around the left
upper arm. His wounds associated  with the fracture  fixation  have healed  up nicely,
but one of the fracture blister scars have become somewhat hyperaemic and very
sensitive, as well as hypertrophic.
Ref: DRN85894044So Im satisfied that due to the delay in surgery,  its likely that Mr As scar was bigger and
more pronounced than it wouldve been  if the surgery had taken place on 26 July 2018, as
originally planned.
However, whilst  I accept  that Mr A did lose sensation in two fingers, the medical evidence
Ive seen doesnt go as far to say that this wouldnt have happened  if the operation had
taken place earlier. Further it looks like Mr A had to have further treatment when he returned
back to the UK. But even  without the delay,  he probably wouldve  needed  to attend follow  up
appointments when  back  in the UK, and have further treatment. For example, he wouldve
had to have the wires in his arm removed and its normal to attend  other  out-patient
appointments to check how the injury is healing after the operation.
Ive also taken into account that Mrs A says Mr A will need some  specialist physiotherapy to
help with the range of movement in his arm and possibly counselling. If he does need such
treatment going  forwards, hed be able to access this through  the NHS.  This shouldnt cost
him, or Mrs A, anything.  And although  such treatment would inevitably take up some of his 
and possibly Mrs As  time, Ive not seen any medical evidence  to support that such
treatment will be needed as a result of the operation being delayed. Its just as likely that he
might need  this treatment  because of the very nature of the injury he sustained  and the
surgery that subsequently took place.
conclusion
For the reasons  set out above, Im satisfied URV did substantially exacerbate the level of 
distress and worry suffered by Mr A and Mrs A by what it did wrong.  They were also put to 
additional inconvenience. And because  the operation was delayed, Mr A has been left with a 
fracture blister scar which, based on the current medical advice,  might  require further  
treatment. 
putting things  right
Within 28 days from the date we notify URV  that Mrs A has accepted my final decision,  I 
direct URV to pay Mrs A and Mr A £2,000 for the additional trouble, distress  and worry it 
caused  which Im satisfied was substantial.
Thats in addition to the amounts URV has already  agreed to pay Mrs A:
A.£200 for the public  hospital  benefit  under the policy; and
B.£933.28 for effective  curtailment for Mr A and Mrs A - based on the eight nights  hed 
spent in hospital.
I think thats fair and reasonable.
At the same time, I also direct  URV  to:
pay 8%* simple interest on the amounts set out at A and B above - calculated  from 
one month after Mrs A and her family  returned  from holiday  to the day on which  it 
makes payment; and
Ref: DRN85894045provide Mr A a signed written letter apologising for the delay it caused to him having 
surgery, which unnecessarily prolonged and exacerbated Mr As pain and worry, and 
led to the fracture blister  on his arm, which he still has. 
my final decision
I uphold Mrs As complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to do what Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
*If Union Reiseversicherung AG considers  its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take
off income tax from any interest  paid, it should tell Mrs A how much  its taken off. It should
also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one. That way she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue  & Customs, if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8589404