K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited is charging him for arrears 
that he did not run up. Further, it is seeking  payment for damages to its car when he is not 
responsible for the damage. He also wants to know  what it has done  with his cheque.
background
In February 2015  Mr M entered into a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS for a brand new 
car. 
After a few years, Mr M wanted  to end the agreement early, so he contacted VWFS  to sort 
this out. He told us that heard nothing further  from it so he left the car with the dealership  in 
January 2018.  He cancelled his direct debit  as he thought he had ended the agreement.  At 
the same  time he took out a new agreement,  also with VWFS
Mr M was surprised  to find that afterwards  VWFS started chasing him for the payments for 
February and March 2018. VWFS also wanted to charge him damage  to the car - most of 
which he thinks wasnt there  when  he left it with the dealership. He said this because,  the 
experts report on which VWFS relies wasnt carried out until May 2018 - months after he left 
the car. He did, though, send it a cheque for the damage he thought  he might fairly be 
responsible for.
VWFS said it sent the termination documents by email to Mr M in January 2018  but he never 
returned them. Its stance  is that he was obliged  to keep on paying  the finance  in these 
circumstances. It also said that the damage  to the car went  beyond  wear and tear, and 
under the terms  of the hire purchase  agreement it was entitled  to charge for this.
Dissatisfied, Mr M came  to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. She didnt recommend upholding it. She was 
satisfied that the termination pack had been  sent to Mr M. But she wasnt  satisfied Mr M had 
signed and returned the documents.  On this basis she didnt agree that VWFS was acting 
unreasonably in asking Mr M to make his repayments for February and March 2018.  Also 
she thought the damage to the car went beyond fair wear and tear, and in the circumstances 
she agreed it was fair and reasonable that VWFS  be allowed to charge for it.
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr M did not. In summary, he 
responded to say:-
He had never received the first termination pack;
It didnt make sense for him to enter into a new agreement with VWFS  in January 
2018 if he had not already ended his existing  agreement; 
He couldnt  afford  two concurrent agreements; and 
He wanted  to know what had happened to the cheque he sent for the damage to the 
car. 
Further, Mr M thought it was wrong  that VWFS  asked him to pay the arrears while we were 
still looking  at the complaint.  He also thought  it was significant that VWFS had taken so long 
to provide us with its business file when  the complaint came to us.
Mr M asked  that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
Ref: DRN84425442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have finished  my review  of Mr Ms complaint, and I am not upholding it. Please let me 
explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
termination of the agreement
I think what happened here is that there  were some  crossed wires. Mr M thought he was 
entitled to treat the agreement as terminated. But VWFS wasnt  going to terminate without 
receiving the proper documents back.  What I have to decide  here is did VWFS give Mr M 
grounds for thinking  the agreement was ended.
Mr M has been inconsistent about whether he received the termination  documents when 
VWFS first sent them.  In particular, he suggested  in some of the information I have seen he 
was sure he had sent the documents back. But later he told us he never  received them.
VWFS has sent us information  to show it did send the documents. It hasnt sent us anything  
that suggests it should have known that Mr M didnt receive them  - such as an email 
showing that its original  email to Mr M bounced  back.
For all of these reasons, I cant fairly and reasonably hold it responsible  in these  
circumstances for Mr M failing to return the documents  initially.
Further, I think Mr M ought  reasonably  to have known that the agreement wasnt  terminated. 
He had no written confirmation  but he still went ahead  with the new purchase.  Moreover,  he 
has not told us the dealership acting on behalf of VWFS told him to leave the car with it 
either. Rather, he says:
I left the car with the dealership as it is the normal expected thing to do when changing 
cars.
That may have been  Mr Ms expectation. But I think that expectation was misplaced in these 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN84425443I cant explain why Mr M entered into the new agreement before the old one was finished. 
But I dont have to. What I have to think  about is did VWFS lead Mr M to think that the 
agreement had been terminated and he could stop paying it.
On balance, I dont  agree that VWFS  acted in such a way that Mr M was reasonably entitled 
to assume that the agreement had ended. It follows I think it is fair and reasonable for VWFS  
to ask him to make his contractual repayments  until the point at which the agreement  did 
actually come to an end.
That said,  if Mr M is now having  money troubles Id expect VWFS to take that into account  
when pursuing  him for the arrears, and to deal with him positively and sympathetically.
repairs
The agreement between the parties permits  VWFS to charge Mr M for damage to the car 
that goes beyond fair wear and tear. VWFS has supplied information to show  that in this 
case the damage went beyond this threshold.
I realise Mr M does not agree that this is fair and wants  VWFS  to charge him less. But he 
agreed to pay these charges when he entered into the agreement. I have no proper basis to 
say now the contract  should now be varied  to allow Mr M to pay less than he is contractually  
obliged to pay.
Ideally VWFS should have done the check as soon as the car was left with the dealership.  
But I cant see Mr M told VWFS when  he left the car there. Further,  I also think  it is more  
likely that the damage occurred  during  the many months Mr M had possession of the car, 
rather than in the few weeks  when it was at the dealership.
In any event, Mr M chose to leave the car at the dealership without agreeing  this in advance  
with VWFS. That was his choice to make. But I think by doing this he took the risk of the car 
being damaged while  it was there. So it is not fair and reasonable to now say VWFS must 
take responsibility for any damage that happened at the dealership.
cheque
I have no doubt  that Mr M sent the cheque. I can understand  that he is worried  about what 
happened to it. 
VWFS have  no record of receiving the cheque.  We have questioned VWFS closely  about 
this to try to give Mr M some peace  of mind  about  it. VWFS has not been  able to help 
beyond saying it does  not think it has the cheque.  It said if Mr M could provide further details 
it would  ask its finance department about  it, although this seems rather  pointless  if it has no 
record of receiving it and doesnt know where it is.
I can well understand  how frustrating and worrying this must be for Mr M. But I think  we 
would get nowhere if we pushed VWFS further on this point. Instead, he may want  to contact 
his bank to see what, if anything  can be done  about cancelling the cheque.
arrears and business file 
VWFS was not obliged  to stop pursuing  Mr M for the arrears just because he had 
complained to us. The parties  had a contract. Mr M owed money under that contract. VWFS  
was entitled to ask him to pay what he owed.
Ref: DRN84425444Ideally VWFS should have sent us its business file sooner than it did. But I dont  read into 
this that it could not provide the business file sooner  as it was not yet able to substantiate its 
position.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8442544