K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs B. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1998 when Mrs B applied for a store  card 
account in a shop.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. When I read the evidence,  I came 
to a different  view to that of the adjudicator. So I set out my view of the case in a provisional 
decision, and asked for comments. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. This was because  Mrs B has 
said she had a medical condition when the PPI started. The adjudicator  said that this 
would have made it difficult for Mrs B to make  certain claims,  and that it was unfair  
she hadnt been clearly warned of this. However I now understand Mrs Bs medical 
condition wasnt diagnosed until around 2009, and that her representatives have said 
she had no previous  medical conditions. Ive seen nothing to suggest she was 
aware of any health problem  back in 1998. So that would mean that the sale wasnt  
unfair in the way the adjudicator thought. 
Ive also looked  at other possible  reasons why the PPI might have been mis-sold. But 
I dont currently think they apply to this case. Ill explain why. 
Mrs B has said she wasnt aware  of the PPI being  added. However this happened 
over twenty  years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs B didnt remember  all the 
details. Ive been able to look at the application form, and I can see that it does set 
out the PPI as a choice. And I can see Mrs B has signed in the section asking for 
PPI, separately from where  she signed the overall  form. 
So, based  on what Ive read and been told so far, I cant  fairly conclude that FICL did 
something wrong in the way the PPI was added to the account.  
Ive seen nothing  to show that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly 
suitable for Mrs Bs individual  needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI 
fitted her circumstances. It would have  been for Mrs B to decide  whether it was 
suitable.
However FICL did need to give Mrs B clear  and fair information, so she could make 
an informed choice. And I cant be sure that it did this properly. So Ive thought  about  
whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But in Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary information, I 
Ref: DRN83006052dont think its likely  to have made a difference to her decision. (This is on the basis 
that I think she was given a choice  which I accept she says she doesnt  remember 
happening.) 
I say this because  from what shes told us its likely that the PPI could have paid out 
for longer than her full employer  sick pay would  have lasted. And it would have  been  
in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy  pay. Also shes  mentioned  having  
some limited  savings and the possibility of help from her family, but its not clear  she 
had any definite  alternative means  to pay her living expenses and credit account for 
long, if she lost her income; and even if she did, she could have kept that in reserve  
for longer. So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
I received no comments or further evidence in response to my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons given above, I am not 
upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8300605