K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about the process  that The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc 
(RBS) has in place for changing  an account from a Select  Platinum account to a Reward 
Platinum account.  They say RBS insists on asking  questions  it already knows  the answers 
to.
background
Mr and Mrs P initially held a Royalties Gold account with RBS.  This account was changed by 
RBS to a Select Platinum  account in 2015,  as part of a change  to the range of products RBS 
offered. The Select Platinum account  is a packaged  account which  comes  with a number of 
benefits, in return  for a monthly fee.
Mr and Mrs P have  explained that they tried to change  their account to RBS advertised 
Reward Platinum account. This account  includes the same packaged of benefits as their 
Select Platinum account, but also has the addition of a cashback  feature on household  bills, 
for an extra £2 monthly fee. 
Mr and Mrs P say theyve spoken to the Select Platinum  accounts travel insurance provider 
to complete a medical screening on a number of occasions, due to Mrs Ps existing medical 
conditions. They also pay an annual upgrade fee to be covered by the accounts  travel 
insurance policy because  theyre aged over 70.
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that RBS is unwilling to change  their existing Select Platinum 
account to a Reward Platinum account, without  asking  them  the medical screening 
questions again.  They believe  that as RBS already  knows the answers to the questions, their 
account should be changed without  the need  for them  to be asked again.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that RBS had acted unfairly. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree 
so they asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After giving Mr and Mrs Ps complaint a lot of thought,  Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain 
why.
I should start by explaining that Mr and Mrs Ps complaint relates  to RBS account opening 
process. Its not my role or within  my power to tell RBS to change  its processes, but I can 
look at whats a fair and reasonable way of resolving their individual  complaint. So although 
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs P have  said theyd like this service to tell RBS to change its 
processes, Im afraid  I cant do that. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs P feel aggrieved that RBS is asking for information  that they 
say it knows already. And I can certainly understand why theyve said that  after all, it 
appears that the questions RBS needs  to ask them are likely  to be the ones theyve 
answered annually  for a number of years.
Ref: DRN87056372But in selling an account  regardless of which account was held beforehand   RBS needs 
to make sure it informs its customers of certain information. And in this case,  as the Reward 
Platinum account  comes with insurance benefits,  RBS needs to make  sure that Mr and Mrs 
P can make use of that insurance and wont  unexpectedly be faced with a declined claim or 
an emergency situation theyre unable  to deal with. In fact, Id be more  concerned  if RBS 
didnt insist on asking  the medical screening  questions and talking to Mr and Mrs P about the 
accounts benefits before changing  it.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs P have  said they dont want to spend the time answering  the 
medical screening questions, and Mr P says he got part-way through  the process  online 
before stopping to phone RBS to enquire about  the process. They  say that RBS gave them  
conflicting information at that point, and spent a long time on the phone.
I agree  that RBSs  initial response to this complaint  wasnt as clear as it couldve been,  and 
from what Mr and Mrs P have said, it does sound  like the phone  call lasted longer than it 
needed to. RBS recognised this poor level of service with £50 compensation, which  I 
understand Mr and Mrs P have accepted,  so I think that part of the complaint has been 
resolved fairly.
Turning back to the crux of the complaint, Mr and Mrs P are clearly unhappy with the 
processes that RBS has in place. But in the round, I dont  consider those processes to be 
unreasonable or unnecessarily  onerous. RBS has also offered arrange a to call Mr and Mrs 
P to complete  the screening over the phone,  which I think  is a reasonable and fair way of it 
attempting to help them. I do agree  that it seems like an easy thing for RBS to transfer the 
information it already  holds  about  Mr and Mrs P to a Reward Platinum account, but thats not 
something its required to do, and nor is it something I can require it to do. 
RBS assured Mr and Mrs P that although  it would  need to complete the medical  screening  
questions again  if they change their account,  the age-related additional premium that they 
have already paid would remain  in place for the year it was purchased for.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs P that Ive looked  at all the information I have about their 
complaint. And Ive thought about everything  theyve said.  But having done  so I dont think  
RBS has dealt with their complaint unreasonably  and I dont  think RBS needs  to do what Mr 
and Mrs P want it to do. So Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but I dont uphold their 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8705637