K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Lloyds  Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. She applied for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  Mrs M selected  the benefit level she wanted  so the policy  
would repay  £250 benefit  a month towards Mrs Ms mortgage balance in the event of a 
successful claim. At the time, it cost £15.75 a month. 
At the time,  the application form Mrs M completed  for her mortgage and the PPI stated she 
was employed as an Assistant Manager  and had been in that role for one year and six 
months. Mrs M recalls being  employed in what seems to be a role with a different employer  
for some eight years. The records from the time are likely  to be more  accurate than 
recollections from over 25 years ago and so I shall rely on the information  in the application 
form. 
Mrs M also says she was entitled to up to six months full sick pay and redundancy pay 
should she be made unemployed. As she has possibly confused the job she was in at the 
time, it is possible  her benefits may not have been as good  when  only in the role for under 
two years,  rather than the eight years she recalls.  However, it is likely she would have been  
entitled to some sick pay. Mrs M has indicated she has no other  means, such as savings, to 
use to repay  her mortgage should  she be unable to work. Mrs M has referred to a medical 
condition she had as a child some 46 years before  taking out the but otherwise  she has said 
she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Mr M was joined as a party to the mortgage  in 2003 but sadly  died in 2006 and was removed 
from the mortgage. He was not covered under the PPI policy  so I shall not refer to him 
further in this decision. 
Lloyds has indicated that between 2001 and 2004  Mrs M took a number of further advances 
on her mortgage. The PPI policy she had taken out with her mortgage  in 1994 was of a type 
where the level of cover  was adjusted when new borrowings were taken, so the policy would 
repay the higher monthly repayments and the premiums increased  slightly  to cover the 
higher level of benefit. But when  taking out the policy the benefit  and monthly cost were  as I 
have already indicated above.
In this decision I am only considering the policy sold in 1994  when  Mrs M took out her 
mortgage, which is the policy she brought the complaint about, and as addressed by our 
adjudicator in his decision. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in October 2006. 
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
Ref: DRN81773422Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs M and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
Ref: DRN81773423products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Ref: DRN81773424Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Whether Lloyds gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
On the mortgage  application form there  was a box about the PPI. In this section there was a 
choice to tick Yes or No to say if the PPI was required. I can see that Mrs M ticked  the 
Yes box. Also, in this section the amount  of benefit required had to be indicated and again 
this part of the document has been completed.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs M knew  the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says that advice was provided  during this sale but Mrs M has indicated  she didnt  
receive any advice. This was a policy sold in a meeting and I can see from the application  
form that some information  was collected from Mrs M at the time relating to her 
circumstances that could have affected  the suitability of the policy.  So I think  it is most likely 
advice was provided. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mrs M. The adviser  had information about  some  of Mrs Ms financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application.  And in the PPI section some questions were  asked and 
completed to try and establish whether Mrs M had a need for the policy  these questions  
Ref: DRN81773425were about  her wider  circumstances such as any health issues  and existing means  but I 
dont think Lloyds did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable.
I say this as the few questions asked relating to Mrs Ms wider  circumstances only required 
boxes to be ticked as responses and covered eligibility and confirmation  of current 
employment and if any ongoing medical conditions. It is unclear if it was clearly explained 
the restrictions of the policy and if all aspects of the restrictions were  discussed and 
explained, for example the length of time the benefit  would  be paid for each claim.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs M given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
Mrs M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems  likely that Mrs Ms ability to continue  to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for any redundancy pay or 
sick pay benefits she says she would have been entitled to.
The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs M.
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs M. There  
was nothing about Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs M has told us 
about having chickenpox as a child. But this was more than 40 years  earlier  and 
there is no evidence  to indicate  this caused any ongoing health problems for Mrs M. 
So this would not have been  caught by the policy  limitations  and exclusions as a pre-
existing medical condition.  
While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Ms 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs M would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be 
and the application form show that Mrs M selected  the level of benefit she wanted. The full 
benefit and cost information was stated in the mortgage offer letter sent to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN81773426But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs M Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave Mrs M all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mrs M? To what extent did Mrs M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs M, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Ref: DRN81773427Mrs M would  have  acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs M says she wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs M was given about the cost and benefit] 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions symptoms that Mrs M knew  
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it contained 
limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs M pause  for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs M was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
Ref: DRN81773428should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs M wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  she didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mrs M might  reasonably  
have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a disability 
claim without  having  to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
exclusion and limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mrs M from taking out the policy, Mrs M in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
Lloyds may not have  told Mrs M that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs M would have  received full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs M would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mrs Ms sick pay or redundancy  money  for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs M was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
Ref: DRN81773429found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M think[s] Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1994 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 May 2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN817734210
Ref: DRN8177342