K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Coutts & Company wouldnt  extend his interest only mortgage when its 
term ended  in 2014. It was only after much discussion and delay that a five year extension  
was agreed in 2017.
background
Mr H has had his interest  only mortgage with Coutts for many  years. The term expired in 
2012 and Mr H asked  Coutts for an extension. At the time he wanted  five years but Coutts 
agreed two, and so the term expired again in September 2014.
From 2013  onwards, Mr H was engaged  in discussion with Coutts about the way forward.  He 
wanted a further term extension  but Coutts said it wasnt  willing to extend the term any 
further because  the mortgage no longer  met its lending criteria.  The term expired in 2014 
with no agreement. Mr H dealt with various staff members at Coutts and set out his position  
at length. Coutts  also asked  for detailed information  about his finances.  Eventually, in 2017,  
a further five year term was agreed.
Once the term expired in 2014, and until the extension in 2017, Mr Hs mortgage reverted to 
Coutts standard variable  rate, which was higher than the interest rate Mr H had been paying 
until then, and higher than the rate agreed from 2017 onwards. Coutts accepted  that it hadnt 
handled things  as well as it could, and agreed  to refund the difference in the rate Mr H had 
paid and the interest rate he could  have been  on between 2014  and 2017,  as well overdraft 
interest hed paid during that period. This amounted to just over £21,000. It also offered  £500 
compensation.
Our investigator thought Coutts had made  a fair offer to put things  right. Mr H didnt agree, 
and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so it came  to me for a decision to be 
made. I issued a provisional decision,  in which I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I wont  set out in detail the whole 
sequence of events and all the arguments that have  been made; Ill focus  on what 
seem to me to be the key points necessary  for me to make my decision. But that 
doesnt mean that I havent carefully  considered  everything   I have; its simply a 
reflection of the informal nature of the functions the Financial Ombudsman Service 
carries out. 
I do think its important context to set out something  of Mr Hs reasons  for wanting an 
extension to the term of his mortgage.  He owns a substantial property, much 
renovated and improved, and surrounding land as well as other properties nearby 
that function as holiday  lets. He also has substantial personal assets. As he himself  
said in his complaint  letter  to us, 
I should  stress that I was not unable to repay our mortgage since, from the 
outset, I had provided for repayment of the capital (it being an interest only 
mortgage) by acquiring other properties  which, if need be could be sold to 
provide repayment  . 
My position  was simply that my preference was not to sell those assets, since 
their value would continue to increase, and therefore I wished to re-mortgage.  
Ref: DRN86068002Furthermore, I had substantial pension and SIPP provision as well as my 
continuing incomeand  I had never defaulted on my mortgage repayments.
When he took out the mortgage Mr H agreed  to repay the capital at the end of the 
term. When the term was extended  in 2012, he agreed to repay the capital  in 2014. 
The starting point  for considering whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances 
is the agreement  between the parties; its not, of itself, unreasonable  for Coutts to 
expect Mr H to keep  to that agreement by repaying his mortgage.
Mr H has referred  to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance  on interest 
only mortgages. It issued  guidance in 2013, followed up in the years since.  This 
guidance is aimed at lenders, and says that lenders of interest only mortgages 
should engage with borrowers at the earliest opportunity, not waiting until the end of 
the term, to discuss how a mortgage is to be repaid. 
That gives  borrowers  sufficient time to consider  their options and discuss them with 
the lender, recognising the repossession  is a last resort. But nothing  in the guidance 
says that lenders are required to extend the term  its an option that should be 
considered, but not a requirement.  And its worth  noting that the guidance is aimed at 
dealing fairly  with  as the title says  customers who risk being  unable to repay 
their loan. As Mr H points  out, he doesnt come into that category. 
Mr H has also referred  to the FCAs rules, in particular the transitional arrangements  
following the mortgage market review. The rules  are to be found in the FCAs 
Handbook, in the section  headed MCOB. Various parts of MCOB may be relevant to 
this complaint and Ive taken them all into account. 
Chapter 13 of MCOB deals with fairness to borrowers faced with a payment shortfall  
(that is, who cant repay their mortgage)  which isnt the case here. 
The transitional arrangements  are to be found in MCOB 11.7. MCOB 11.6 sets out 
that a lender must  carry out a full affordability assessment, and a full assessment of 
interest only repayment strategy, when entering  into or varying a mortgage.  The 
transitional arrangements in MCOB 11.7 say those requirements dont  apply where 
the loan was taken out before April 2014, has not been increased since  then, and the 
proposed new or varied loan is in the borrowers best interests. 
Again, nothing in this or any other part of MCOB says that a lender must grant an 
application for a term extension. All the transitional arrangements  do is say that a 
lender need not refuse a request  on the grounds  of affordability or lack of repayment 
strategy if the change  is otherwise in the borrowers best interests. But an application 
can still be refused on other  grounds.
Also of relevance is MCOB 2.5A, and the FCAs Principle 6, which  both say that 
lenders must act fairly taking into account  their borrowers best interests.
In deciding a complaint,  my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In doing so, I take into account  the law, the FCAs regulations and 
guidance, and what seems to me to be good industry practice. But ultimately Im not 
bound by any of them if I consider fairness requires me to depart from them. 
Ref: DRN86068003Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules or guidance that says a lender 
must grant an application to extend an interest only mortgage.
In my view, its fair for a lender to expect a borrower  to repay their mortgage at the 
end of the agreed term. If the borrower  is having difficulty doing  so, or is unable  to, 
there are various steps that it must  take, including considering whether to extend the 
term.
But those  arent  relevant  in this case.  Mr H could  repay his mortgage.  But he didnt 
want to, because he would rather use the capital to increase the value  of his property 
investments than use it to repay his mortgage. In other words,  he wanted Coutts to 
wait for repayment so that he could make  further  gain from the capital it had lent him.
That isnt a request  Coutts is obliged to grant. Initially, in this case it was unwilling to 
do so. After much discussion, it re-considered and decided to grant Mr Hs request  
for an extension.
Coutts asked  Mr H to provide detailed financial information. Under the transitional 
arrangements, as Ive said, the full detailed affordability assessment required by 
MCOB 11.6 isnt necessary  if the change is in the borrowers best interests. But 
given Mr Hs age and the reasons for his request, as well as his other borrowings 
from the bank, I dont think it was unreasonable for Coutts to consider whether he 
would be able to afford  the mortgage  for the remainder of the extended term, and it 
wouldnt be in his best interests to extend  it if he couldnt do so.
With any bank, theres  a cost to raising money  to lend, and that cost is recouped  both 
through the payment of interest  and through the repayment of the capital. Coutts  was 
entitled to expect its money back, and  provided  it complied with the regulators 
rules and guidance, and treated him fairly   it was entitled to carefully  consider  
whether it was prepared  to extend  the period  until the capital  was repaid. 
In my view both the initial decision to refuse the extension, and the later decision to 
allow it, were in the circumstances of this case decisions that fell with the range of 
reasonable outcomes it was entitled  to reach.  I dont think  either was arrived at 
unfairly or in breach  of the rules.
But Coutts recognised that the term extension decision could have been made 
sooner, and so it refunded the additional  interest Mr H paid as a result. It also offered  
Mr H compensation of £500 because of delays and mis-calculations in how the 
interest refund was reached,  including whether Mr Hs overdraft interest  should  be 
included. I think thats fair, and I dont intend to ask it to do anything  further.
Coutts accepted my provisional decision.  Mr H didnt  reply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  what  I said in 
my provisional decision. Having done  so, and in light of the fact that neither party  had further 
evidence or arguments  to provide, I havent  changed my mind. I adopt  the findings  in my 
provisional decision, set out above, as my final decision.
Ref: DRN86068004my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8606800