K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc failed to advise her that her income  protection 
policy wasnt suitable. 
background
In 1999, Mrs L took out an income  protection policy. The aim of the policy was to pay benefit, 
after a four week waiting period, in the event Mrs L wasnt able to work because of accident 
or illness. 
Mrs L met with HSBC when she re-mortgaged in 2010 and 2015,  and her policy  remained in 
place after both meetings. 
In 2017, Mrs L found out she couldnt  claim under the policy until her employers  sick pay 
had ended after 12 months. She cancelled the policy  and complained to HSBC.  She thought 
HSBC should  have told her at the 2010  and 2015 meetings that the policy wasnt  suitable  for 
her, given the four week waiting period.
HSBC upheld the complaint. It didnt have any information from the meeting in 2010.  
However, it agreed the policys waiting period hadnt  been  suitable for Mrs Ls circumstances 
when she met with its adviser  in 2015,  and its adviser hadnt brought  this to Mrs Ls 
attention. As the waiting period couldnt be amended under the policy,  it offered to refund the 
premiums shed paid since  the 2015  meeting, plus interest. Mrs L remained unhappy, as she 
thought the premiums should have been refunded back to the 2010  meeting. She therefore  
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He thought Mrs Ls sick pay 
arrangements meant the waiting period had become unsuitable in 2008. He recommended  it 
refund her premiums from this date. However,  he thought there was a four month period 
when Mrs L could have  claimed benefit  in 2011,  due to her sick pay arrangements  when she 
changed jobs. So he said HSBC could  keep four months worth  of premiums. Finally,  he 
thought Mrs L should  have told HSBC  when her circumstances changed, so he didnt 
recommend it pay interest on the refunded premiums. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 July 2019. My findings were:
When Mrs L took out the policy, her employer at the time would  have paid her sick pay for 
four weeks.  The waiting period under the policy was therefore set up to coincide with the end 
of her employers sick pay. Im satisfied this was suitable. She was able to protect up to 50% 
of her salary, and her benefit under the policy was within this.
In 2008, Mrs L left that employer and went to work somewhere  else.  Under her new 
employment, her sick pay entitlement increased with her length  of service. Initially, she 
would receive one months full pay, followed by half pay for two months. This increased 
every year until 2011, by which time she was entitled to full pay for four months,  followed by 
half pay for four months. 
In 2011, Mrs L again  changed  employer. Her new sick pay arrangements  meant that in her 
first year, she was entitled to one months  full pay and then once shed been there for four 
months, she would  also be entitled  to half pay for the next two months.  This increased each 
year until 2015, by which time she was entitled  to full pay for five months and half pay for five 
Ref: DRN86970302months. The following  year this would increase to full pay for six months, and half pay for six 
months, which would remain her entitlement thereafter.
However, in 2015,  Mrs L re-mortgaged and HSBC also reviewed  her protection  needs. At 
that time,  the adviser  recorded that Mrs L was entitled to full sick pay for six months, 
followed by half sick pay for the next six months. No changes  were made to the cover.
HSBC says its adviser ought  to have reminded Mrs L at this time that because of her sick 
pay arrangements, she wouldnt be able to claim under  the policy for 12 months, despite her 
policy having a four week waiting period. It therefore  offered  to refund the premiums Mrs L 
had paid from the 2015 review, until the date the policy was cancelled. 
Although Mrs L told the HSBC adviser in 2015  she was entitled  to full sick pay for six 
months, followed by half sick pay for six months - according to her employment contract, it 
seems this wouldnt have  been the case for another six months  or so. She therefore wouldnt 
have been able to claim on the policy for the first 10 months at that time, rather than 12 
months. 
Nevertheless, I think HSBC acted reasonably by offering to refund Mrs Ls premiums  from 
the 2015 meeting. I would have expected its adviser to make it clear to Mrs L that she was 
paying for a policy  with a four week waiting period that wasnt  suitable  for her. Mrs L could 
have then made an informed decision as to whether to keep the policy  in place or not. 
However, based on the evidence from that meeting, the adviser didnt explain this to Mrs L. 
Im therefore  satisfied a refund of premiums  from this date is appropriate. 
Mrs L thinks HSBCs  adviser should  have made her aware at the 2010  meeting that the 
policy wasnt suitable for her at the time, given the policys waiting period. She thinks the 
premiums ought to be refunded from that date,  rather than 2015. 
Our investigator went further  than that, and thought  the policys  waiting period hadnt been  
suitable from as far back as 2008. He thought Mrs L wouldnt have been able to make  a 
claim under the policy after this date, apart  from a four month  period in 2011 when Mrs L 
was only entitled  to one months sick pay from her employer.
I understand why Mrs L feels shes entitled  to a refund  of premiums from 2010, but I dont 
think thats appropriate here. Ill explain  why.  
In 2007, three years  before  Mrs Ls meeting  with HSBC  in 2010, Mrs L had wanted to 
replace her income  protection  policy with a new policy with higher benefit.  However,  her 
application for a new policy was declined  because of her health.  HSBC doesnt have any 
information from the 2010 meeting, but Mrs Ls recollections are that she was advised  to 
keep her income protection policy in place  due to her medical  condition.
When the 2010 meeting took place,  Mrs L was in her third year of her then employment. At 
the time she was entitled to four months  full sick pay, followed by four months  half sick pay. 
Because of this, she wouldnt  be able to claim benefit under the policy  for eight months. 
But given that Mrs L wasnt  able to take out another income protection  policy because of her 
health, or increase the benefit under her existing policy, I dont think  it was necessarily 
unsuitable advice  for Mrs L to keep her policy in place. If she were unable to work because 
of illness, then the policy would provide her with long-term benefit,  despite her being  unable 
Ref: DRN86970303to claim in the first eight  months. Given that its clear that Mrs L did want  to protect  her 
income, this may have  been preferable to her rather than have no cover  at all.
However, as in 2015, I would have expected the adviser to bring it to Mrs Ls attention that 
she was paying  for a policy  with an unsuitable waiting period. She could  then make  her own 
decision as to whether  or not to keep the policy. But unfortunately theres  no information 
available from the 2010 meeting, so I dont  know  what was discussed about  the policy. In the 
absence of any information relating to discussions about the waiting period, I cant  conclude 
that HSBC was at fault here.  
In summary,  between 2008 and 2015,  there was only a four month period when the waiting 
period was suitable for Mrs L. However,  as Ive explained, I dont think  that means the policy  
itself was unsuitable for Mrs L. Given that her health  prevented  her from taking out a new 
policy and she wasnt able to amend  the waiting period or benefit under her existing cover, 
the policy provided her with cover that would  have been of benefit to her if she were unable  
to work for the long-term. Therefore,  the unsuitability of the waiting period itself isnt enough 
to outweigh the potential benefit the policy offered. So I cant say that Mrs L should receive a 
refund back to 2008.
Whilst I recognise theres an argument  for HSBC to refund premiums to 2010,  for me to 
require HSBC to do this, Id need to be satisfied the adviser failed to tell Mrs L that her 
waiting period wasnt suitable, given  her sick pay arrangements. However, there isnt 
sufficient evidence for me to reach this conclusion. And Mrs Ls recollections are that the 
adviser recommended she keep  the policy because of her medical condition, which I dont 
think was unreasonable. 
Overall, Im therefore satisfied HSBCs offer to refund  premiums  from 2015 was reasonable. 
I dont intend to require HSBC to do anything further.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wanted me to take into 
consideration. 
HSBC responded  to say it didnt have any further comments. 
Mrs L responded with the following main points:
she feels aggrieved  that because HSBC  doesnt  have evidence  of the discussion in 
2010, this is being  used against her. 
shes unhappy that Ive referred to her recollection about being  advised to keep her 
cover in place due to her medical condition as a reason to support  the decision not to 
uphold her complaint,  but I havent taken  into account her recollection that she wasnt 
advised about the waiting period  in 2010.
she wanted to increase  her cover in 2007  because her employer didnt pay sick pay, 
and her circumstances werent the same when she re-mortgaged  in 2010. She says 
she didnt necessarily  want to protect her income in 2010.
she thinks its evident from the fact that she cancelled her policy once she was aware  
of the wrong waiting  period, that she was more interested in short-term cover than 
long-term cover. 
it seems from my decision that she should  have had her income protection 
requirements reviewed when re-mortgaging, but this review wasnt completed  
effectively in 2010.
Ref: DRN86970304my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision.  Ill explain why. 
Mrs L has inferred from my provisional  decision that HSBC  should have reviewed her 
income protection requirements when she was re-mortgaging. To confirm, thats not the 
case. If HSBC was giving her mortgage advice, it wasnt obliged  to review her protection 
arrangements  though it may have  been good practice to do so. 
Given that the 2010 meeting took place nine years  ago, its not surprising that HSBC  doesnt 
have the records  of that meeting. That means  theres no evidence, beyond  Mrs Ls 
recollection, to support  that a review  of her existing  income protection cover took place or 
that the adviser failed to tell her the waiting period wasnt  suitable.  I dont think  Mrs Ls 
recollections alone are enough for me to conclude that HSBC  was at fault here.  
Mrs L recalls being advised to keep her existing cover in place due to her medical  condition.  
Again, theres  no evidence to support this, but if this is what she was advised, then I dont 
think this was unreasonable  for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision. 
Mrs L says she wanted  to increase her cover  in 2007 because she didnt have sick pay with 
her employer at the time, and she didnt necessarily  want to protect  her income  in 2010 as 
her circumstances had changed. If Mrs L didnt want to protect  her income  in 2010, then 
even if the adviser  did recommend she keep her existing  cover in place because  of her 
health, I would question why she continued paying  for the policy if she didnt want any 
income protection cover at all.
Mrs L makes the point that she cancelled the policy in 2017  when  she found out the waiting 
period wasnt suitable.  I appreciate this, but I dont know that she would have taken the 
same action in 2010, even if there  was evidence  that her cover  had been  reviewed and she 
had been made aware the waiting  period  didnt  coincide with her sick pay arrangements.  Her 
employment may not have been  as stable in 2010 as it was in 2017,  and she may have 
wanted the reassurance of having the income  protection cover in place in case  she changed 
jobs  as indeed  she did the following year. 
Overall, there isnt enough evidence for me to be satisfied the adviser reviewed Mrs Ls 
existing income protection cover in 2010 and failed to tell her the waiting period wasnt 
appropriate at the time.  I therefore  remain satisfied  that HSBCs  offer to refund premiums 
back to 2015 was appropriate.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86970305
Ref: DRN8697030