K822xcomplaint
Mr A says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six instalment loans Lending  Stream provided to Mr A between  April 
2016 and May 2017. Mr A borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £250 to be repaid in 
six monthly instalments.  There  was a gap of over six months  between  the repayment  of loan 
two and Mr A borrowing loan three. So the loans from loan three  onwards  form a new chain 
of borrowing. Loans three to six overlapped and repayments are outstanding.   
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr As complaint in part and thought loan six shouldnt  have been 
given. Lending  Stream accepted this view but Mr A disagreed. He wanted all his debt wiped  
off and records of the lending  removed.  And so the complaint was passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN84027532Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Lending Stream asked  Mr A for information  about  his income and expenditure and it carried  
out credit  checks.  Mr A said he earned £1,800 a month for loan one and £1,500 for the rest 
of his loans. He said his monthly  outgoings  ranged  between about £1,300 and £800 a 
month. 
I think these checks were  proportionate and sufficient for loans one and two. From these 
checks, it looked like Mr A could sustainably repay these loans. So I cant say it was wrong  
for Lending Stream to provide them. There was then a six month  gap in Mr As borrowing. 
So I think Lending Stream  could reasonably treat loan three as the start of a new chain  of 
borrowing and carry out the checks that were appropriate. 
I think Lending Streams affordability checks for loans three to five were proportionate and 
sufficient. It looked  like Mr A had sufficient disposable income  to repay  his loans comfortably, 
even with the overlapping repayments.  
Given the loan amounts,  what  was apparent about Mr As circumstances at the time and his 
history with Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Mr A provided or the information  Lending Stream  shouldve been  aware  of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate  to start verifying what  Mr A was saying. So I 
cant say it was wrong for Lending Stream to provide loans three to five. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan six would most likely have 
shown that Mr A was having problems managing his money:
He had three outstanding loans when he applied for loan six.
Hed borrowed four times in four months. 
So I think Lending Stream  should  have realised that Mr A wouldnt be able to sustainably 
repay loan six or any subsequent loans. So I think it was wrong  for Lending  Stream  to 
provide loan six and I think  it should  put things right.
Mr A thought  Lending Stream should wipe off all his outstanding debt.  But we think  
consumers should  repay the principal they have borrowed as they have had benefit of it. So I 
dont require Lending Stream to write off the outstanding balance. 
Ref: DRN84027533I also dont require Lending Stream to provide redress for loans that havent  been upheld. I 
note that Lending Stream has agreed  to set up an affordable repayment plan for the 
outstanding balance Mr A owes. I think thats fair and reasonable as its the positive and 
sympathetic response  Id expect to his financial difficulties.  
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
buy back the debt for loan six;
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loan six and offset this against the principal 
still outstanding;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan six from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mr A a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr As complaint. I 
require Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending  Stream)  should pay Mr A compensation as set 
out above, as its already agreed  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8402753