K822xcomplaint
Mrs F complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA),  who provide the home assistance 
part of her home insurance policy, failed to deal with her home  emergency  claim properly.
background 
Mrs F has a home insurance policy,  provided by an insurance company Ill call IC. Within  
this policy  Mrs F has a number of different types  of cover. These include home assistance, 
provided by IPA, and home insurance, provided by an insurer  Ill call HI.
Mrs F discovered a leak coming  from one of her kitchen pipes. She phoned IPA and asked 
them to send someone to fix it. A plumber attended that day but said he couldnt fix it as he 
couldnt get access to the pipe without damaging Mrs Fs kitchen units. He said Mrs F would 
need to arrange for trace  and access  a process  of identifying and exposing the leaking 
pipe, so he could  return and fix it. This process was covered  under Mrs Fs home insurance 
policy with HI, but not the IPA policy.
Mrs F contacted HI to try and arrange  for the trace and access.  However, after discussion, 
she decided to pay for the trace  and access herself,  intending to claim  the money back  from 
HI. She arranged and paid for the same  firm who sent the first plumber  to undertake  this  
the intention being to expose the leak, and then fix it at the same time under the IPA policy.  
A different plumber  came to do this. By now, this was three days after the leak was reported.
The second  plumber was able to fix the leak without needing to undertake  any trace  work. 
So, IPA arranged for the money Mrs F paid for the trace and access  to be refunded. But, 
because it took three  days  to fix the leak, some water damage to Mrs Fs kitchen occurred.
Mrs F complained to IPA - their first plumber failed to identify the leak could have been fixed  
during the first visit. Had it been  fixed, the subsequent damage to Mrs Fs kitchen wouldnt 
have occurred. And subsequent distress experienced by her would have  been  avoided. IPA 
agreed their plumber was responsible for not fixing the leak at the first visit. But IPA also said 
he gave advice about how to minimise further  damage  turn the water  off at the mains when 
not being used  which wasnt  followed.  IPA offered to pay £150 as compensation  for the 
distress caused by the delay in fixing the leak.
Mrs F wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Shes also raised  a concern 
about the impact  this will have on her claim record. She had to make a separate  claim to HI 
for the trace and access work  and although this was withdrawn almost immediately after 
she agreed to pay for the work herself,  the claim record  remains. Mrs F wants her insurance  
claim record rectified to reinstate her no-claims discount, and for her kitchen to be repaired.
Our investigator agreed thered been failings in the way IPA handled Mrs Fs claim  a 
second plumber  visit wasnt  needed.  But he thought IPAs  offer of £150  compensation was a 
fair outcome. And regarding Mrs Fs insurance record, he said any issue Mrs F had with HI 
regarding how it recorded the withdrawn trace and access  claim would have to be dealt with 
by HI. It wasnt  something our investigator  could tell IPA to do anything  about. Unhappy with 
this outcome, Mrs F asked  an ombudsman  to consider her complaint.
Ref: DRN88011922my provisional findings 
In my provisional decision,  I said I intended to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. This provisional  
decision said as follows:
Before doing so, I need to begin  by commenting on Mrs Fs home assistance policy.  This is 
an optional extra, (underwritten  by IPA), attached  to Mrs Fs main home insurance policy  
(underwritten by HI). The home assistance policy provides for emergency repairs to be 
undertaken in the event of a home  emergency.  It has the following relevant definitions:
Emergency repairs:  Work  undertaken by an authorised contractor to resolve the 
emergency by completing a temporary repair
Temporary repair: A repair that will resolve the emergency but may need to be 
replaced by a permanent repair
Permanent repair: Repairs and/or work  required to put right the damage caused to 
the home by an emergency
The policy also says IPA will:
organise and pay up to £1000  per claimto carry out an emergency repair,  or if at 
a similar  expense a permanent repair
And, in relation to trace and access,  the policy says
We will not pay for claims arising  directly or indirectly for or relating to the following   
Trace and access to locate the source  of the emergency is not covered. Please note 
this may be covered under  your buildings insurance
So, the policy covers  claims to temporarily fix, or permanently if a similar cost, a home  
emergency  but not trace  and access work  or cost to locate it.
In relation to Mrs Fs claim, it isnt in dispute  that her emergency   attending to the leaking 
kitchen pipe  was covered by this IPA policy. And its accepted by IPA the first plumber they 
sent should have fixed the pipe. And based on the above  policy  wording, I think  the pipe 
should have been fixed with a permanent repair, given  I cant  see the cost of doing this 
would have been more than a temporary  one.
But it wasnt  fixed at the first visit. The first plumber  left Mrs Fs home  having told her shed 
need to arrange the trace and access work,  so she phoned HI to do this. And, as said above, 
Mrs F then decided  to pay for this herself, and the HI claim was withdrawn. Im aware  the 
first plumber had told Mrs F how she could minimise damage to her kitchen  until the leak 
was located and fixed. Essentially, she was shown how to turn off the water supply at the 
mains  which was located outside her house.  A couple of things  are important here.
Firstly, it became clear when the second plumber attended that the advice given by the first 
plumber was flawed.  As well as not fixing the leak, he also hadnt  identified which pipe  hot 
or cold  was leaking. Hed assumed  it was the cold-water pipe  possibly based on what  
Mrs F said when  she first called IPA. Ive now listened to that call, and Im satisfied Mrs F 
made it clear  she didnt know which pipe it was. It was the IPA call advisor who incorrectly  
interpreted Mrs Fs comments  as saying it was the cold-water  pipe.
Ref: DRN88011923Even so, the first plumber should have  checked for himself. Had he done  so, hed have 
realised the hot-water pipe was leaking. And I understand  this pipe could have been isolated 
at the boiler, leaving Mrs F with running cold water  without  causing further damage.  This is 
important because Mrs F had a week-old baby  at the time and understandably didnt want 
her home to be without  running water whilst waiting for the leak to be fixed.
Secondly, had she known  she could  have minimised the leak damage  whilst  keeping 
running cold water in the home  I think  its likely shed have isolated the hot water, turning it 
on only when needed, so reducing  the damage  between the two visits.
But Mrs Fs kitchen  was damaged between the first and second visits and remains  so. Mrs F 
hasnt undertaken  any repairs, pending  the outcome of this complaint. I should  acknowledge 
here its possible there was some  damage  done  before the first plumber arrived. However,  
Ive listened to Mrs Fs first call to IPA, and she makes no indication  that any material  
damage has been caused at that early  point. So, Im persuaded the main damage caused to 
Mrs Fs kitchen occurred  after the first visit.
Given all of the above, I cant say Mrs F did anything  unreasonable by keeping  the water  
turned on, given  her particular circumstances at that time. And, so I think  IPA is ultimately 
responsible for the damage caused by the leak, post-first visit - which  it needs  to repair.  In 
deciding what I think is a fair outcome here,  Im guided by the principle of putting  Mrs F (or 
her kitchen) back into the position she/it would  have been had IPAs mistake not occurred. 
To me, that position  is having a kitchen that displays no signs of any water  damage.  So, I 
think the fair and reasonable  outcome here is for IPA to repair the damage done  to Mrs Fs 
kitchen, caused  by the pipe leak, and/or replace  any damaged units as necessary.
I now want to deal with the distress  and inconvenience Mrs F experienced. As Ive said 
above, I think the leak should  have  been  fixed during the first visit. That being the case, 
everything happening afterwards was avoidable,  including the obvious distress and 
inconvenience experienced  by Mrs F during that period. Im aware Mrs F had to continually  
wipe the affected area - because it wasnt possible to capture the leaking water   to try and 
minimise damage. Mrs F also had to spend time on the phone to IPA, and later to HI - 
dealing with the trace and access visit for instance. And, all of this at a time Mrs F was taking 
care of her one-week old child,  which should have been her undistracted  priority.  Im 
satisfied, based  on the above,  this episode caused  Mrs F considerable distress and 
inconvenience. And I dont think the £150  compensation  paid by IPA properly reflects this  I 
think a fairer compensation figure  in these  circumstances is £400.
Finally, I return  to the issue of Mrs Fs insurance  record. All insurance claims  made,  
settled, cancelled  are generally recorded  on an insurance database called  CUE. Mrs F is 
unhappy her record  may contain two entries, one submitted by IPA, and one by HI.
Ive made  enquiries  and seen HI have recorded their withdrawn  claim on CUE - which  in the 
circumstances I think they were entitled  to do. I explain why in my response  to Mrs Fs 
separate complaint against HI.
But Ive also now been made aware  Mrs Fs home  emergency claim wouldnt be recorded on 
the CUE  database   such claims arent  recorded  as they are an optional  benefit on Mrs Fs 
home insurance policy. This is because the policy is designed to cover  temporary repairs,  
which would usually give rise to a permanent  repair being carried out under the HI policy (so, 
recorded on CUE) or paid for by the policyholder  (so no HI claim,  and no CUE record).
Ref: DRN88011924But here, Ive already  said Mrs Fs leak should  have been fixed during the first visit. And 
based on the above CUE comments,  it appears had the first plumber done  his job properly, 
there would now be NO entry on the CUE database.  IPA would have undertaken an effective 
permanent - as the same  cost as a temporary   repair  of the leaking pipe. And no further  
claim to HI would have been  necessary.
But there is now a withdrawn claim record on CUE that, whilst registered by HI correctly, I 
think shouldnt have  been there.  I am unable to compel this being removed. I cant  tell HI to 
remove it, as theyve  done nothing wrong. And I cant tell IPA to remove  it, as they didnt 
register it  they have no control  over it.
Im aware the fact this CUE entry exists, and its potential impact,  causes Mrs F distress. I 
have no way of knowing if its existence  will impact future insurance premiums  Mrs F may be 
quoted, causing her to pay more for insurance than shed otherwise pay if the IPA plumber 
had done his job properly. And I cant consider things that may happen following a business  
making a mistake  because they may not happen.  But I can conclude the actions of IPAs 
first plumber has effectively caused  Mrs Fs distress  in this regard. And for that reason, I 
think IPA should  pay Mrs F a further £150  compensation  for this distress, bringing the total 
figure for distress and inconvenience  compensation to be paid to Mrs F to £550.
my provisional decision
So for the reasons Ive set out above,  I intend  to uphold Mrs Fs complaint, and ask Inter 
Partner Assistance  SA to do the following:
-Organise and pay for the repair to the damage caused  by the leaking pipe in Mrs Fs 
kitchen, following their failure to fix the leak at the first available opportunity  for the 
avoidance of doubt, this is not to be recorded  by IPA as a new/separate insurance 
claim
-Pay Mrs F an extra £400  compensation for distress and inconvenience (£550, less 
£150 already paid)
response to my provisional  decision.
Mrs F has responded and confirmed  that, in principle, she accepts my provisional findings. 
She has, however, alerted me to two things shed like me to consider. 
The first is that she hasnt cashed the £150 compensation cheque IPA had sent her 
previously, pending the outcome of her complaint. This being so, I will amend my final 
decision to reflect that IPA must pay Mrs F £550  total compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered.
The second  thing Mrs F has brought to my attention is the discrepancy she says exists in her 
policy booklet that concerns the financial cover  limit of each claim under her policy.  Mrs F 
has asked me to recognise that this limit is £1,500 per claim, as opposed  to £1,000  per claim 
which is what I have said the policy wording says. I think  this is a moot point in the context of 
this complaint. This is because Im not asking IPA to fix the damage to Mrs Fs kitchen under 
the terms of her policy  where any remedial works would  be limited by the value  of cover 
available under the policy. Here,  Im asking IPA to pay to fix the damage its appointed 
plumber caused  by failing to deal with Mrs Fs kitchen pipe leak properly when he should 
have. It doesnt  matter if the cost to IPA is more  or less than £1,000 or £1,500  IPA have to 
Ref: DRN88011925cover the cost of repairing  the damage caused by their plumbers negligence regardless of 
what that may cost.  That being the case, I make no further comment in this regard. 
IPA have also responded to my provisional decision.  They confirm they are unable  to 
provide any further  evidence.  They  acknowledge  the decision, but advise they dont have  
any approved contractors they can engage to complete  the work. Instead  they offer to cover  
the cost of the repairs either by reimbursing  Mrs F on a pay and claim basis, or by 
arranging to pay Mrs Fs chosen contractors directly.  
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any material information  or evidence that alters my view set out in 
my provisional decision  that IPAs first plumber failed to fix Mrs Fs leaking kitchen pipe at 
the first available opportunity, and IPA are accordingly responsible for fixing the damage  to 
Mrs Fs kitchen subsequently caused.  Or that Mrs F experienced significant distress and 
inconvenience which justified  an increased  compensation  award.
The only new issue I need to consider  concerns IPAs comment  they dont have an approved  
contractor they can instruct  to fix the damage to Mrs Fs kitchen. IPA havent told me why 
they dont have one, but given the IPA policy essentially covers emergency repairs,  as 
opposed to permanent fixes that may involve  fixing/rebuilding elements of the home, I can 
understand why this may be the case. But IPA does  agree it will cover the cost of the 
repairs, on the basis Mrs F arranges the repair  herself, with IPA either  reimbursing Mrs F for 
the costs she incurs or paying the appointed  contractor directly.  
I appreciate this would  place  an extra burden on Mrs F to locate and arrange a firm to fix her 
kitchen, but I think in the circumstances this is a fair solution. It allows Mrs F to retain  a 
degree of control  over the process, insofar as being  able to choose a contractor she is 
comfortable using.  
However, I also need to be fair to IPA, and ensure they only cover  the cost of repairing the 
damage clearly caused by the leaking pipe their contractor failed to fix at the first 
opportunity. So, Ive asked Mrs F to provide  photographs of the damaged  area, so I can see 
the extent of the damage, and direct that the repair of that damage  is the only thing covered 
by this decision. Mrs F has now provided  photographs, allowing me to be specific in my 
decision below regarding what I think IPA need to repair. 
Furthermore, to ensure  IPA pay a fair price for the work being undertaken, I think Mrs F 
should arrange for two quotes  to be obtained for this work and submitted to IPA for them  to 
choose which contractor  to approve. But I dont think Mrs F should have to pay the 
contractor out of her own pocket. Once  the contractor and scope of works has been agreed,  
IPA will need to pay the agreed sum to Mrs F to enable her to engage  that contracting  firm to 
complete the work. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint and require Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to do the following:
Ref: DRN88011926-Upon receipt of Mrs F providing  two quotes  to IPA for the necessary repairs  to the 
damage caused by the leaking pipe in Mrs Fs kitchen, caused by IPAs contractor 
failing to fix the leak at the first opportunity, IPA may choose which  quote  to accept.
-IPA must then pay this agreed  sum to Mrs F to enable her to engage the chosen  
contractor - Mrs F is not required to pay the contractor on a pay and claim basis.
-For the purposes of clarity, IPA must pay for the following repairs:
oThe repair and/or  replacement of the water-damaged  vertical pipe enclosure, 
visible between the ceiling and worktop  situated to the right of the kitchen 
window,
oAs necessary, the repair and/or replacement of the side panel of the wall-
mounted unit adjacent to the damaged pipe enclosure,
oAs necessary, to re-plaster  and/or treat with appropriate anti-mould/fungal 
solution the wall area behind  this pipe enclosure, 
oReplacement of the two water-damaged floor-level unit doors.  
-For the avoidance of doubt, this is not to be recorded by IPA as a new/separate 
insurance claim.
-Pay Mrs F £550 compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8801192