K822xComplaint
Mr V complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company  SA-NV  (CIGNA)  unreasonably 
declined a claim on his rent protection and legal expenses insurance policy.  All references to 
CIGNA include  its agents. 
Background 
In October  2018, Mr Vs tenants  failed to make their monthly rental payment. These  arrears  
continued, and the tenants  became unresponsive. In December 2018, the agents who 
managed the property  for Mr V sent the tenants a Section  21 notice, informing them  that the 
tenancy would end in two months time. The tenants  vacated  the property prior to the expiry 
of the Section 21 notice. Mr V then carried  out some refurbishment, and new tenants moved 
in towards the end of May 2019.  
Mr Vs policy  included  rent protection, so he contacted CIGNA in mid-January 2019 to start a 
claim for the lost rent. But CIGNA declined the claim on the basis that Mr V hadnt reported 
the arrears within  60 days  of them starting, which  was a condition  of his policy. 
Mr V challenged CIGNAs decision and raised  a complaint. He said his previous managing 
agents were aware  of the policy terms and would  likely have raised  the claim on his behalf. 
But new managing agents had recently  taken over who werent as familiar with the policy. 
He felt this should be treated as a mitigating  circumstance.
CIGNA considered Mr Vs complaint but didnt change its stance. It said its position had 
been prejudiced by the late notification, and it didnt see the relevance of the change  in 
managing agents  as this happened before the arrears started. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 2 December 2019. Ive included  an 
extract below. I said:
Mr V held the premium  version of his policy.  In theory, this meant that if Mr Vs tenants  
didnt the rent due under  the tenancy agreement,  the policy  covered him for an unlimited 
amount of rental  payments  until the tenants  cleared  the arrears or vacated the property. 
It also covered Mr V for 50% of the rent for three  months  after the tenants vacated the 
property while it was available for re-letting, subject  to certain  conditions.  
The policy included a condition  that Mr V needed  to notify CIGNA, in writing,  of any rent 
arrears within  60 days of them becoming known. It set out that if this condition  was 
breached, no claim for loss of rent would be accepted. In this case, Mr V first notified CIGNA 
of the arrears around 88 days  after the first payment was missed.  I appreciate  Mr V 
expected the managing agent to instigate the claim for him. But as the managing  agents act 
on his behalf,  I think he carries ultimate responsibility for the condition  being breached.  
Under a strict interpretation  of these terms, CIGNA was entitled  to decline the claim. But Im 
also able to consider  whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
The regulators Insurance Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (ICOBS) says that an insurer 
shouldnt reject a claim for breach of a condition unless the circumstances of the claim are 
connected to the breach. In practice, this means its up to CIGNA to demonstrate how its 
been prejudiced by the late notification. 
Ref: DRN88170382The prejudice CIGNA has alleged in this case relates to the length of time it took Mr V to 
take possession  of the property and re-let it. Its explained that if it had been aware of the 
arrears within  60 days,  it would have had an opportunity to send the tenants a Section  8 
notice as soon  as two months  of arrears had accrued. Im persuaded CIGNA would have 
done this, because that process is outlined in the guidelines for policyholders document  it 
sent to Mr V upon  receiving his claim. And the claim form specifically asked Mr V to 
authorise the issuance of a Section 8 notice. 
I think this probably would have enabled  Mr V to have taken possession of the property and 
re-let it more quickly. The Section 21 notice Mr Vs managing agent issued gave the tenants  
roughly two months notice to vacate the property. Whereas a Section 8 notice requires a 
tenant to vacate the property within 14 days or risk court action. 
It doesnt appear the tenants had an appetite to challenge the eviction in court  as they 
moved out before the Section 21 notice  expired.  It seems likely that they would have moved  
out prior to the expiry  of a Section 8 notice if one had been served instead. So, I think 
CIGNA could probably have removed the tenants six weeks earlier  than Mr V did. The period 
Mr V is claiming for is therefore longer than it would have been had he complied with the 
policy condition about notification of arrears. And in that sense CIGNA has been prejudiced. 
Having said that, I dont think it was fair for CIGNA to dismiss Mr Vs claim out of hand, as 
that isnt reflective  of the prejudice it has suffered. 
Even if Mr V had notified CIGNA of the arrears in time, there was no way it could have 
removed the tenants before two months of arrears  had accrued. A Section 8 notice doesnt 
become valid until that point, and it allows the tenants a further  14 days to move out. 
So, CIGNA would still have had to consider the period between the arrears starting and the 
tenants vacating the property in response  to a Section 8 notice against the policy  terms. 
Furthermore, it doesnt seem that CIGNAs liability would  necessarily have  ended  at the 
point that the tenants vacated. As mentioned above, subject to certain conditions, Mr V also 
had cover for 50% of the rent for three months  once  the property was available  for re-letting. 
Mr V potentially would have been  able to claim for the period  between  the refurbishment 
being completed, and the property being  re-let, subject to certain conditions. 
CIGNA hasnt yet reviewed this aspect of the claim.  But from what  I can tell it wouldnt have 
had a direct  influence over the re-letting process.  Instead, it has mitigated its risk exposure  
by time limiting this benefit and making it conditional on the rent being set at the market  
value, and Mr V accepting any offer above  85% of the preceding rent. So, as long as Mr V 
has complied with those  conditions, I cant see that theres  been  any further prejudice here. 
Taking the above into account, I intend  to direct CIGNA to reconsider Mr Vs claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of his policy. In reviewing the claim, I think CIGNA  is 
entitled to refuse indemnity for any rental  arrears  which accrued between the dates the 
tenants would likely  have  moved out in response to a Section 8 notice, and the date that the 
tenants actually  moved  out. I calculate this period  to run from 5 January 2019  to 
21 February 2019. This is to account  for the fact that those arrears most  likely wouldnt have 
accrued if Mr V had notified CIGNA of the arrears  within 60 days.  
While I recognise this doesnt follow a strict  interpretation of the policy  terms, I think  its a fair 
and reasonable approach to take in these circumstances as it allows CIGNA to exclude any 
liability it wouldnt otherwise have incurred if the conditions  of the policy  had been met. 
Ref: DRN88170383CIGNA has highlighted other terms and conditions which it says might lead to a claim 
settlement of zero. Its highlighted that the terms of the policy required Mr V to use the 
tenancy deposit to reduce its liability in the first instance. And its pointed  out another  term 
that required Mr V to use any amounts he has since been able to recover  (from  the tenants, 
their guarantors or by order of a court for example)  to offset  the arrears in date order. 
It may well be that once all of these terms and conditions have been applied  that no payment 
is due under the policy. But I think CIGNA will need  to review Mr Vs claim against the policy 
terms to establish  that. I think its entitled to seek an updated schedule  of rent from Mr V. 
And it should seek whatever information it requires  from Mr Vs managing  agent about  the 
re-letting process to establish whether  the relevant conditions  were met. 
I wouldnt expect CIGNA to unreasonably  refuse  payment  if Mr V can provide enough 
information to support  his claim.  If after the claim has been assessed  Mr V remains unhappy 
with the outcome, hell be entitled to make  a new complaint about that. 
I can see CIGNA  also has concerns  it may have lost the opportunity to make  a successful 
recovery of the rental arrears in Mr Vs name given the time thats past. From my 
understanding, the relevant limitation period to pursue a recovery of rental arrears is six 
years from the date which they became  due. So, I dont  think CIGNA has been able to show 
that it has lost the opportunity to do this. 
Mr V says he also incurred the costs  associated with the refurbishment, the cost of finding a 
new tenant and the costs  involved with entering  into a new tenancy agreement. I cant see 
that any of these costs  are covered  by his policy. There is some legal expenses  cover for the 
pursuit of damages  where a tenant  has caused  physical damage,  but Mr V will need to 
discuss this with CIGNA in the first instance.  
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to uphold Mr Vs complaint about CIGNA Europe  
Insurance Company SA-NV and direct  it to reconsider  Mr Vs claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of his policy. It will be entitled to refuse indemnity for any rental arrears 
that accrued between  5 January 2019 and 21 February 2019 to account for any prejudice 
caused by the late notification of the claim by Mr V. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr V accepted my provisional decision. CIGNA responded to say that whilst  it didnt  agree 
with my provisional decision,  it understood the basis on which it had been reached.
It confirmed it had nothing  further to add and said it would contact Mr V to progress the 
matter once Id issued my final decision.  
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any additional points  for me to address. Ive reconsidered all of the 
information and see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN88170384My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct CIGNA Europe  Insurance  
Company SA-NV to reconsider Mr Vs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of his policy. It will be entitled to refuse  indemnity for any rental  arrears  that accrued between  
5 January 2019 and 21 February 2019 to account  for any prejudice  caused by the late 
notification of the claim by Mr V. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8817038