K822xcomplaint
Mr R complained about the advice he received from AWD  Home Finance Limited, a 
mortgage broker and appointed representative  of Legal and General Partnership Services 
Limited (L&G). He says he was mis-sold a mortgage, a will package, and a legal 
administration service.  
A claims  management company (CMC) brought this compliant  on Mr Cs behalf.
background 
Mr R took advice from the broker in late 2005.  He wanted to re-mortgage in order to 
consolidate debts  and have more disposable  income. At the time he had a mortgage with an 
early repayment charge  (ERC) and three debts totalling £5,083:
-£3,500 on a credit card at 0%, on which Mr R paid £150 a month;
-£400 on a credit card at 18% on which Mr R paid £20 a month;
-£865 on a loan at 21.8% on which Mr R paid £26 a month.
The broker  recommended  Mr R should  move his mortgage to a new lender. The loan 
amount included funds to consolidate his existing debts and at completion Mr R was sent the 
money so he could pay them off.
The broker  also recommended that Mr R should buy a will package, and he referred  Mr R to 
a will company. The will company got in touch  direct and Mr R chose a package which cost 
£158.63. This was added to Mr Rs mortgage. Mr R also paid legal fees for the re-mortgage.
In 2016, Mr R complained  through the CMC. The CMC said that the mortgage had been  mis-
sold because the debt consolidation and paying  an ERC were  unsuitable.  It also said the will 
package and legal package had been unsuitable.  
In terms of the will package, the CMC said, in summary:
-the package  and the fees for it hadnt been properly disclosed to Mr R, and the 
broker didnt do enough to ensure it was suitable for Mr R;
-the will company was a sister company of the broker, or there was cross-
shareholding. The broker didnt tell Mr R this, and it was a clear conflict of interest;
-the charge  for the will package wasnt reasonable  when compared  to prices in the 
wider market for such services;
-it believed that in around 2009 or 2010,  L&G had directed the broker to reduce the 
cost of the will package  about eight or nine years  earlier. The CMC said that this 
showed L&G was complicit in the sale;
-the will package shouldnt have  been  consolidated into the mortgage;
-the CMC  said the broker  and L&G benefited  from the fees being added  to the 
mortgage, because  the lender paid them an inflated  procuration fee as a result.  They 
also received commission which they didnt tell Mr R about.  The CMC said the 
actions were contrary to two legal decisions,  Plevin  v Paragon  Personal Finance 
Limited  and McWilliam v Norton Finance.
Ref: DRN87335652In terms of the legal  service, the CMC  said,  in summary:
-Mr R could have had free legal services  from the lender. The broker  knew this, but 
didnt tell Mr R, and it also charged  him an extra  legal administration  fee;
-the broker coerced  Mr R into using its appointed solicitor in order  to ensure it 
received commission, as well as payment of various fees on completion of the 
mortgage. This hadnt been in Mr Rs best interests and wasnt treating him fairly;
-the charge  for the service wasnt reasonable when compared  to prices in the wider 
market for similar service.
L&G replied  that it had seen nothing to show that the lender had offered a free legal service 
at the time Mr R applied  for his mortgage. It also said that it thought Mr R had needed to 
make a will. But it agreed it hadnt  been right for him to have paid the fee for the will package 
through his mortgage. It offered to refund the interest Mr R would pay on the cost of the 
£158.63 will package over the term of his mortgage. It said this came to £49.89  and it also 
offered to pay Mr R £150 for the inconvenience, making a total of £199.89.
L&G also noted  that the broker  hadnt  explained  to Mr R about  the implications of 
consolidating the card which had been  at 0% interest. L&G expressed concern about this, 
and said it would make  Mr R an offer based  on calculation  of loss. It asked Mr R for 
evidence that hed used the cash,  which hed been paid at completion,  to pay off the card 
within a month of completion. From the papers  before me, I cant see that Mr R did provide 
this evidence to L&G.
Mr R didnt accept L&Gs offer so, through the CMC, he got in touch with this service.  
In relation to the issues about  commission, while the complaint has been with us, the CMC 
has confirmed acceptance of L&Gs offer to resolve  that aspect. So thats no longer an issue 
and I dont consider  it here.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, and he thought  L&G had made a fair offer 
of compensation.  He found nothing to indicate that Mr R could have used a free legal service 
through the lender, or that there  had been a conflict of interest. He said the legal  fees had 
been made clear  to Mr R, and he didnt think the recommendation of a will package  had 
been unreasonable.
The CMC didnt agree and asked for a review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered each issue in turn below.
will package
I agree  with the CMC that L&G is responsible for the advice to Mr R which  AWD, as its 
appointed representative, gave him about  taking  a will package. Im satisfied that the advice 
was given in connection with the regulated activity of providing mortgage advice.
Ref: DRN87335653I consider that the brokers recommendation that Mr R should  buy a will package  was 
reasonable. Mr R was single, and from the figures there was equity in the property. So 
making wills meant Mr R could decide who would inherit that asset. 
The broker  and will company did have  directors  in common.  But that doesnt necessarily 
mean that the brokers advice that Mr R should make  a will, or its referral to that particular  
company, was unsuitable or inappropriate.
Ive looked at the correspondence which the broker sent Mr R after its meeting with him in 
December 2005.  The record of suitability says that we strongly  recommend  that you make 
arrangements to review  your will arrangements and ensure they are appropriate and up to 
date. As part of the package provided  you will shortly be contacted by [name of will firms] to 
discuss your will requirements. In the light of that, I accept that the broker didnt advise Mr 
R to take a specific will package. 
So I find that there was no reason for Mr R to believe  that he had to take a will package in 
order to go ahead with the mortgage. He could have chosen  to go ahead  with the mortgage 
but not the will.  
In terms of the cost,  there is nothing to indicate  that the broker  was involved in the setting of 
fees. Also, the third party  will company  isnt covered by this service. So its not for me to say 
what was or wasnt a reasonable amount for that firm to charge.
But I consider that adding  the cost of the will package to the mortgage  was poor advice.  It 
meant that Mr R had to pay interest  on that cost over the whole term of their mortgage. L&G 
has accepted  that this was wrong,  and its offered  to refund £49.89,  which its calculated as 
the interest on the cost of the will over the whole term of the mortgage. It also offered £150 
compensation for trouble  and upset. I find that is a fair way of putting things right.  It 
reimburses Mr Rs loss, and compensates him for the inconvenience  of having had to make 
slightly higher mortgage  payments than they would otherwise have  done.
consolidation of debts  into mortgage
Two of Mr Rs three debts  had significantly higher  interest  rates than the new mortgage 
recommended by L&G. The other  one had a 0% interest rate, so by consolidating that into 
the mortgage Mr R would face an increase in the interest rate. And the other  factor to take 
into account is the fact that Mr Rs new mortgage was over a longer term than any of the 
debts, which  would  almost certainly  mean Mr R ended up paying more interest overall.
Looking first at the credit  card which had a 0% interest rate, I consider it should  have been 
clear that it wouldnt be in Mr Rs financial interest  to consolidate this into a higher rated 
mortgage. L&G accepted that its adviser hadnt fully explained the implications to Mr R, and 
said it would  make an offer. It made this conditional  upon evidence that Mr R had indeed 
used the money  at completion to pay off that debt. I dont  have evidence that Mr R did this, 
but without such  evidence it wouldnt be reasonable to expect L&G to pay compensation.
Turning to the other two loans, which were at higher  interest rates, I find that the wording on 
the suitability document  was sufficient to warn Mr H that these might  still end up costing him 
more than if he didnt  consolidate them into the mortgage.  The document  said that the 
overall cost of repaying these liabilities  is likely  to increase as the term is longer. The broker  
didnt have to say that the cost definitely will be higher, and nor did it have  to provide an 
Ref: DRN87335654illustration or figures. The suitability document records that he wanted  to go ahead with the 
consolidation because having one manageable payment is more important to you.  Mr R 
signed and dated this page. So I dont find that L&G is required to pay compensation for 
having recommended  consolidation of the three debts  into Mr Rs new mortgage.
Mr Rs priority was to reduce his monthly  outgoings  and have more  disposable  income. With 
his previous mortgage, hed been paying £397  a month,  plus £196 for his three loans,  
making a total of £593. The mortgage  offer from the broker meant he moved onto a monthly 
payment of £443.58.  So this did achieve what hed asked the broker  to do, even  if it was 
ultimately more expensive.
early repayment charges  (ERC)
As a result of changing to the new mortgage recommended by the broker,  Mr R had to pay 
around £674 for changing to L&Gs recommended mortgage in January 2006. He wouldnt 
have had to pay that if hed waited  until July. 
But before the mortgage completed in January  2006, Mr R wrote  a handwritten  document  
which said that he appreciated  there was an early  redemption  penalty of approximately  £674 
on his existing mortgage. This would last until July 2006 and Mr Rs note said he appreciated 
that if he waited  till after that date there wouldnt be a penalty. He went on to write that he 
wished to completed his new mortgage  straightaway in order to benefit from the immediate 
monthly savings. Mr R was entitled to take this decision  for himself, even if it was ultimately 
more expensive.
legal service
Mr R paid £522.88 for the legal work  involved in the remortgage, plus £117.60 for 
disbursements (including searches and paying off his previous mortgage). This came to 
£640.48. This was less than the key facts document had set out, as this gave a figure of 
£750. 
The broker  charged  separate fees for various  parts of its service,  but how it structured its 
fees was for it to decide, and I dont  consider  the documents indicate the Mr R was misled 
about what it would cost him. He hadnt identified free legal costs as a priority when talking 
to the broker, and I havent seen anything to indicate  that the new lender offered free legal 
costs.
So, while the broker recommended that Mr R use a particular conveyancer, it doesnt follow  
that he lost out as a result. Hed always have had to pay any legal costs arising from the re-
mortgage, whichever  conveyancer hed used. He had the option  of using his own solicitor if 
hed wanted.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as I consider Legal and General 
Partnership Services Limited has made a fair offer of compensation.
I leave it to Mr R to decide whether or not he wishes to accept the offer to pay him £199.89, 
which L&G said comprises £49.89  mortgage interest  on the cost of the will package  for the 
term of the mortgage,  plus £150 for the inconvenience.
Ref: DRN87335655Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8733565