K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains about the way that Lloyds Bank PLC dealt  with her business accounts  after 
her business  partner passed away.
background 
Mrs C was in business partnership with her husband. He passed away in May 2018.  Her 
son, Mr C, who represents her in this complaint,  already  had a significant role in running the 
business and the account. And hed been granted a power of attorney. He complains on her 
behalf about the difficulties in arranging for a bank account for the business. Lloyds 
recognised the issues and offered to pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused and £150 
for expenses. It sent Mrs C a bouquet  of flowers to recognise its mistake in addressing 
correspondence to her late husband.
Our investigator did not recommend that Lloyds do more than it had offered to. She said that 
she understood that Lloyds needed to open  an account for the business in the sole name of 
Mrs C. But she did not think it had communicated  this well or quickly enough. She 
understood the frustration of her representative as he was required to provide information 
about the trading of the business. He expected the new account to be set up as a mirror 
image of the old one. It was clear that Mr C had spent a lot of time on the phone and had 
difficulty accessing the accounts even  though  he had a power of attorney. She thought that 
the compensation was reasonable based  on what shed seen. But she asked that Mr C 
provide any information about expenses or business losses that resulted.
Mr C said that Mrs C did not agree. The amount suggested was at a token level.  He knew of 
a different case where a similar amount had been awarded for less serious problems.  The 
problems with this business account went on for a prolonged  period.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of the death of Mrs Cs husband. They were in a partnership and their son 
Mr C had been taking  an active  role in managing that business over a number of years. His 
involvement was being  formalised into a power  of attorney.
The issue  was that the death of Mrs Cs husband resulted in the ending  of the business 
partnership. Lloyds procedure is that a new account  for Mrs C as a now sole trader needed  
to be opened.  I cant say that this approach was a mistake.  It wrote  to the business about 
this in a letter dated 5 June 2018.  But as this was sent second class post Mr C did not know  
the existing account had been frozen until a week later. He was then told about forms that 
had to be filled in for a new account. He wasnt happy about this and the impact  on the 
business. He spent time on a frustrating call with a member of staff and when he thought  the 
call was going to be joined  by a manager  he was cut off.
Lloyds agreed  to allow the existing  account to operate for an initial period of three months 
while the new account was established. Ive listened to calls Mr C had about the process and 
can see he had difficulty with access to the account online. And he was frustrated that not all 
staff he spoke to knew  about the power  of attorney.  Different parts of the bank were not 
Ref: DRN89210512helpful for him and did not act in a co-ordinated  way. The new account was open on 29 June 
2018 but not operational until 17 July 2018  and even  then he did not have a debit card.
Mr C wanted a mirror of the existing account to be created for Mrs Cs business. And that 
would include an overdraft and a credit card. Instead  he was asked for detailed financial 
information and a new lending application  was made. Access to the old account was further 
extended but not before items had been  returned unpaid for essential business expenses 
from the new account. I understand the bank charges relating to those  were  refunded.  The 
notes Ive seen  state  that the overdraft  on the new account was agreed from 20 September 
2018.
Ive had access to eight call recordings from Lloyds together with its case records.  I can see 
that this process  was more prolonged than it needed to be. And that Lloyds did not provide 
clear and consistent communication. It wrote  to Mrs Cs husband after his death which was 
particularly distressing for her. There was always going to be some  inconvenience and time 
involved in switching the business  banking over to the new account. And this was during a 
very distressing period.  Lloyds  agrees  that this was made worse by its actions and does not 
disagree with what  Mr C has said about that on behalf of Mrs Cs business.
Ive not seen evidence of any financial loss. I need to consider the level of compensation 
appropriate for the distress and inconvenience caused  and any expenses. Every case  is 
different and Ive taken  into account our published guidance about trouble and upset. I need 
to consider the circumstances as a whole,  balancing  all the difficulties and the period of time 
they took place over against the necessary  processes for Lloyds. Having done this I know 
that both Mr C and Mrs C will be disappointed when I say that I think that the offer Lloyds 
has already made is a reasonable  one. I wont be asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
Lloyds has already made an offer to pay a total of £650 to settle the complaint and I think  
that this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that Lloyds Bank PLC should 
pay Mrs C a total of £650.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8921051