K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)  turned  down  a pet insurance 
claim she made.
background
Miss C has had pet insurance with RSA since July 2015. In July 2017 she wanted to 
upgrade her policy from standard  to premier. She attempted  to do this online, but the only 
option available was to take out a new premier  policy. Miss C did that and contacted  RSA to 
arrange for the standard policy  to end on the same day the premier  policy  started. She 
thought that would ensure  there was no break in cover. 
In August  2018,  Miss C submitted a claim to RSA for the cost of treating her dogs ear 
problems. RSA reviewed  the claim, but said it wasnt covered. That was because it thought 
her dog had suffered ear problems in 2016 before Miss Cs premier policy started. It said her 
policy didnt cover changes to her pets health  that she or her vet noticed before the policy  
started, or any illnesses that developed  from those changes. 
Miss C said although  she purchased  the premier policy as new it should be treated as a 
renewal of her standard policy as there was no break in cover.  She said RSA didnt make 
clear to her in 2017 that pre-existing conditions wouldnt be covered  and she should have 
been advised how to upgrade her existing  standard policy to a premier policy.  Miss C also 
said the ear problems that formed the subject of her claim werent related to those 
referenced in the vets notes. And she said it was misleading to refer to them as a condition 
as this implied they required  continuous, ongoing treatment. 
Our investigator felt RSA had acted fairly. She thought  Miss C had been given clear  
information about pre-existing conditions in 2017.  And RSA said she wouldnt have been 
able to upgrade  her standard  policy to premier at that time. So she would always have had 
to take out the premier policy as new if she wanted that cover.  She felt it was fair for RSA to 
treat the current ear problem as a pre-existing condition. And she thought the £50 RSA had 
agreed to pay for customer service  failings was enough. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month and Ive included  an extract  
below. I said:
changes to the policy in 2017
Ive listened to a recording  of the call Miss C made to RSA in July 2017. During the call the 
adviser noted Miss C had made a claim on the standard policy for her dogs skin problems. 
The adviser explained that any future claims for skin problems  under  the premier  policy  
would be excluded if they were found to be linked to that. 
Miss C argues it wasnt made clear this would  also apply to a future claim for ear problems 
her dog had previously suffered from. But while I appreciate there  wasnt a specific reference 
to this during the call there was a more general discussion of whether pre-existing conditions  
would be covered. Miss C said it doesnt make  sense to stay with the same provider if the 
same providers going to say we wont cover you for things youve had before. In response 
the adviser said if a policy  is renewed each year it is continuity of cover but once you cancel 
one policy  to then take out another policy with us, they technically start it as a brand new 
policy and apply all the terms and conditions again.
Ref: DRN82430612Miss C was unhappy with this and initially said she would be changing  provider if that was 
the case. She then decided that shed look further  into this issue  before making a decision. 
Miss C spoke to RSA again  at the start of August as the thought her old policy had already 
been cancelled.  During that call the adviser  confirmed  this would be done  (and the premiums 
taken refunded). The adviser said just to make  you aware under the new policy  were  not 
going to cover any pre-existing conditions. Miss C confirmed she understood that.
I also note the policy  summary for the premier  policy that Miss C took out says we will not 
pay claims for any changes that you or your vet notice  in your pets  health or behaviour 
before this policy starts, or any illness or injury that develop from these changes.  And RSA 
says as part of the online application for this policy it would have been highlighted to Miss C 
that the policy didnt cover claims for illnesses or injuries that developed from changes in her 
pets health before cover  started. Looking at all of the evidence  Im satisfied that Miss C was 
made aware  she was taking out a new policy and that wouldnt cover conditions  that could 
be linked  to previous  changes  in her dogs health. 
Ive also thought about whether RSA should  have suggested Miss C upgrade her policy  
during her call  which would have prevented there being a break in cover. However, RSA 
has now provided underwriting  evidence which shows it doesnt allow an upgrade from 
standard to premier  cover if any claims have been made on the policy. And in this case it 
says a condition  shed previously claimed  for (a skin condition)  was one that its vets advised 
could often recur.  It wouldnt have agreed  an upgrade  from standard  to premier  cover in this 
case. So as Miss C didnt in fact have the option to upgrade I dont think more  information 
about this would have affected  her decision making.  
the decision on the claim
Ive gone on to think about  whether RSA has shown the ear problems Miss C has now tried 
to claim for on the premier policy are linked to previous episodes  of ear problems which 
occurred before that policy  started. Taking into account the policy terms which  Ive 
referenced earlier I need to be satisfied that they arent separate  and distinct  events of 
infection or inflammation, and its more likely they arose from the same  underlying  condition.  
And its for RSA to show  that thats  the case. 
Miss Cs premier policy started on 29 July 2017. There  are a number of entries  in the dogs 
clinical notes prior to this date which relate  to her dogs ears. In November 2016, the dog 
was diagnosed with bilateral otitis externa (inflammation or infection  of both ear canals) 
which the treating  vet suspected arose from underlying allergies. Then  in March 2017 the 
dog was noted as having smelly ears with a yeasty discharge. This was treated with 
Canaural, which are ear drops used to treat otitis externa.   
Later that March the dog was again diagnosed with bilateral otitis externa and treated with 
Canaural. There are then a series  of entries  between March  2018 and August 2018, which 
relate to the ear problems Miss C is seeking to claim for. The vet observed more yeasty 
discharge. These problems were  also treated  with Canaural. Within  these notes,  the vet 
again questioned whether the ear problems were caused by an underlying allergy.  
Ref: DRN82430613RSA has now provided an opinion from a vet whos a member  of the Royal  College of 
Veterinary Surgeons. The vet has said I believe that all of the skin and ear issues are 
connected, and that the declined claim is part of a recurring, underlying,  chronic ear 
problem It has been well established  that the most common primary trigger  for otitis 
externa is atopic dermatitis (allergic skin disease) as per multiple veterinary literature 
sources Typically, these cases present with otitis accompanied by chronic  changes  such 
as erythema and scabbing of the pinnae, thickened canals as [the dog] has had
That vet appears  to be suitably qualified and their opinion makes specific  reference to the 
dogs clinical  history. Its also consistent with comments made  by the treating  vet in the 
clinical notes about the likelihood of the different episodes of ear problems being caused  by 
an underlying  allergy.  So I think RSA has done enough to show  that the ear problems 
occurred prior to her premier policy starting.  And so I think  it acted fairly by declining 
Miss Cs claim  based on the exclusion for pre-existing conditions. 
Miss C also raised concerns about  the general  handling of her claim by RSA.  I think  its 
agreed RSA could have given Miss C more meaningful updates about her claim and 
subsequent complaint. But RSA apologised for this and paid Miss C £50. Taking into 
account the impact  of these issues on her I think thats reasonable. So I dont think  it needs 
to do anything further. 
responses to my provisional  decision  
RSA didnt comment on the provisional  decision although did confirm it had been received. 
Miss C provided further comments. She said it wasnt made sufficiently clear to her when 
she took out the premier policy that undiagnosed symptoms would be considered  a pre-
existing condition. 
And although her dogs  ear problems had been treated in a similar way, they each had 
different causes. She said shed been  told by a senior customer  service adviser that RSA 
can offer upgrades  from standard to premier cover, even when claims have already been 
made. So she shouldve  been offered this, or advised to stay on the standard  policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss C doesnt  feel RSA gave her a clear enough explanation of what  would be 
classed as a pre-existing condition. But during the call the advisor explained that if Miss C 
decided to go ahead with the premier  policy any future claims would be reviewed against her 
dogs clinical  history. And that anything which could be linked to issues that had taken place 
before the premier  policy started wouldnt be covered. 
The adviser set this out using the example of a rash under the dogs eye which  Miss C had 
claimed for previously. Miss C said during the call that she wouldnt refer to the rash as a 
condition. The adviser confirmed that new claims relating to the eye would only be paid if 
Miss Cs vet confirmed they werent  linked to the rash. It was at this point that Miss C said 
she wanted more  time before making a decision. 
Ref: DRN82430614In addition, the key features document which was included in the policy  booklets  for both the 
standard and the premier policy said we will not pay claims for any changes  that you or your 
vet notices in your pets health  or behaviour before this policy  starts,  or any illness or injury 
that develop from these changes. And RSA says this would have been highlighted during 
the application process as well. So I think RSA provided Miss C with enough  information  to 
enable her to make  an informed decision on whether  to go ahead  with the premier policy or 
to remain on her standard policy. 
And while Mrs C believes  her dogs ear problems all had different causes I dont think thats  
supported by the veterinary evidence. In 2016  the treating  vet said they suspected the dogs 
history of ear inflammation and redness of the skin related to an underlying contact allergy. 
In the more recent notes, the vet again  noted  the possibility of an underlying allergy, and 
considered the benefits of doing a food trial and / or prescribing an allergy medicine for dogs 
called Apoquel. 
Thats supported  by the vets opinion RSA provided  which also suggests that the dogs 
history of ear inflammation and infection is likely  to stem from a chronic, underlying skin 
allergy. I think RSA has done  enough to show that Miss Cs recent  claim relates to a change 
in health which took place  before her current policy began, and is therefore excluded.    
Ive also listened  to the call with the senior customer  service adviser which  Miss C has 
referenced. During  that call he did give an example of how a claim on an upgraded policy  
might work when it related to something which started prior to the upgrade.  But before this, 
he also made clear this wasnt his area and said depending on the claim circumstances if 
there are claims on the policy then its not always an option  to actually upgrade the current  
cover you have because  of there being  an existing claim. 
Thats consistent with the underwriting evidence RSA has already provided and which  I 
referenced in my provisional decision. And given  the nature  of the condition Miss C 
previously claimed for Im satisfied RSA wouldnt have offered the option of a policy  upgrade 
in this case. 
So for the reasons Ive explained  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to bring  
Miss C what I appreciate will be disappointing  news. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept  or reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8243061