K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  Pearlpex  Sales  Limited  (trading as Hatton Garden  Pawnbrokers)  sold 
jewellery she had pawned even though shed kept up with her payments.
background
Ms S pawned a number  of items of jewellery  at Hatton  Garden Pawnbrokers. The pawn 
agreements lasted six months, at the end of which there was an option  to redeem the items 
or take out another six month  agreement.
In September  2017 Ms S went overseas to help her mother  who was terminally  ill. Ms S had 
a UK mobile number  that her ex-partner  used  to pay. She says her ex-partner cut the mobile 
off meaning she couldnt  use that mobile  to make or receive calls from September  2017.
Hatton Gardens Pawnbrokers wrote to Ms S on 23 October 2017 asking her to send updated 
proof of identity and address, and to confirm the contact details it held were up to date.
Ms S called  Hatton Gardens Pawnbrokers in early November 2017 to find out how much it 
would cost to redeem her items. Ms S says she was still overseas at the time and that she 
called Hatton Gardens  Pawnbrokers using a pay as you mobile  she had. Ms S says she was 
able to make  and receive calls from this pay as you go mobile.  Her pay as you go mobile 
number was an overseas  number   the number belonged to her mother.  Ms S and Hatton 
Gardens Pawnbrokers  dont agree  on what was said during that call.
Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers wrote to Ms S on 22 November 2017 to say that her 
agreements were due to expire  on 2 December 2017 and that she needed to take action.
Hatton Gardens Pawnbrokers wrote to Ms S on 4 December  2017 to say that her 
agreements had expired and that her items would be sold after a 14 day grace  period.
Hatton Gardens Pawnbrokers says it had no responses to any of the letters it sent between  
October and December 2017,  and says that none of the letters were returned undelivered. 
So Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers  sold Ms Ss items  at auction on 16 December 2017.
Ms S says she called Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers on 4 January 2018 to discuss her items  
and found out her items had been  sold. She complained  about  her items having been  sold.
Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers investigated Ms Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. Ms S 
complained to our service. One of our investigators  looked into Ms Ss complaint but didnt 
uphold it. She didnt think Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers had acted  unfairly. Ms S disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So thats  what  Ive done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers wrote to Ms S more  than three times between October and 
December 2017  about her items. Those letters said, amongst other  things, that if Hatton 
Gardens Pawnbrokers  didnt hear back her items  would be sold at auction. The letters were 
sent to a UK address Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers had on file. Ms S was in fact overseas at 
Ref: DRN80136322the time.  Hatton Garden  Pawnbrokers says that none of the letters  were returned  
undelivered but I dont accept that. I say this because Im aware of another pawnbroker who 
was sending letters to the same address and Ive seen evidence that those letters were 
returned undelivered. So I would  have expected Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers to consider 
other ways  to contact  Ms S to make sure she knew the redemption period  was about to end.
The parties spoke  in early  November 2017. The redemption periods for both agreements  
were due to end soon  at that stage. Ms S says that she asked Hatton Gardens Pawnbrokers 
for information about redeeming her items and it said it would call her back. Hatton Garden 
Pawnbrokers says the opposite   that it told Ms S to call back. More importantly, Hatton 
Gardens Pawnbrokers  has said that Ms S didnt mention that she was overseas or that her 
mother was terminally ill, and in its response to us it has called this an excuse  implying that 
Ms S is not to be believed on this point. I dont  accept  that this was an excuse. Ms S went  
overseas to look after her terminally  ill mother and she passed  away  in November 2017.
Ms S says she told Hatton  Garden Pawnbrokers  about her mother, and I accept this. I say 
that because,  amongst other things, the records  of the other pawnbroker Ive seen record  
the fact that Ms S told them that she was overseas looking after her terminally  ill mother. 
Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers has told us that it would have waited had Ms S explained her 
circumstances. It follows,  given that I accept she did, that Hatton Gardens Pawnbrokers 
wasnt as sympathetic and helpful as it says it would have been or as I would have expected 
it to be  it sold Ms Ss items as soon  as the 14 day grace period was over. 
On 4 January  2018 Ms S called Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers and was told that her items 
had been sold.  She was very angry with Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers. I can understand, 
given what Ive just said about Ms Ss circumstances when the parties spoke in early  
November 2017,  why Ms S was very angry  with Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers  it hadnt 
been at all sympathetic.  But I dont think it would  have  made  a difference to the ultimate 
outcome if Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers  had waited  the other pawnbroker waited several 
months and Ms S didnt come and collect her items. So I dont think it would be fair  even  if 
it was possible  to ask Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers  to buy back  and return  Ms Ss items.  
But I do think its fair to tell Hatton Garden Pawnbrokers to compensate Ms S.
Ref: DRN80136323Hatton Gardens Pawnbrokers has offered  to waive the £100  it says Ms S owes.  That is, 
however, less than the award I think would  be fair for the trouble and upset caused by 
Hatton Gardens Pawnbrokers actions. I think an award of £300 is more  appropriate. So Im 
going to require Hatton Gardens Pawnbrokers  to waive the £100  it says Ms S owes and pay 
her an additional  £200.
my final decision
My Final  Decision is that I require  Pearlpex Sales Limited to waive  the £100 it says she owes 
and pay Ms S £200 in compensation for the trouble and upset shes been  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8013632