K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold  payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a mortgage in 1996. 
I know that when  Ms R took this mortgage  out, BOS was trading as Halifax.  But to keep 
things simple, Ill refer to BOS for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Ms R disagreed  with that view 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I thought carefully  about all of the information before me. But I havent upheld  this complaint. 
Ill explain  why below.  
Neither party can tell me how this policy  came  to be sold to Ms R. Looking at when Ms Rs 
mortgage was set up, I think it was most  likely sold during a meeting in a branch. I cant  
know what was said at that meeting. Ms R told us she couldnt  remember how PPI was sold. 
So to help me decide whats likely to have  happened, Ive considered the paperwork thats 
available from the time,  alongside BOS computer records. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Ms R would have known the PPI was optional  and 
she didnt have to buy it if she didnt want it. Ms R said that the cover wasnt  explained to her 
and she didnt know shed  taken it out. It wasnt entirely clear to me how Ms R would have 
known the PPI wasnt explained  to her if she couldnt remember how it was sold.  
Nevertheless, I dont doubt  that what Ms R has told us is what  she honestly recalls about  the 
sale. 
I think that the PPI would have usually been  billed  to Ms R separately  to her mortgage.  And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Ms R queried this at the time.  I know that Ms R says 
that she doesnt recall  her payments  being  separated in this way, but the computer records 
from BOS appear to show that PPI would have been  set out as an amount different to her 
mortgage. So while I appreciate she doesnt  now remember,  I think  at the time,  shed  have 
queried what these  payments were for if she didnt know about them at the relevant time. 
This was probably an advised sale. So BOS had to make  sure the PPI cover was suitable for 
her needs.  To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the PPI. And Ive also looked  at what Ms R told us about  her personal 
circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if shed  had to make  a claim on the PPI, Ms Rs mortgage repayments would 
have been covered for up to 12 months  if she became unwell or if she was made redundant. 
Ms R told us that shed  have received  six months full pay and six months  half pay if she 
Ref: DRN88191152became unwell. So I think this policy would have  paid out in addition to and for longer than 
her sick pay if shed  had to claim. 
Ms R also told us she had some savings, although  she has given us differing amounts. In 
her PPI questionnaire,  she told us that shed saved  the equivalent of 12 months of her 
salary. However, information  she sent to BOS indicated that she had considerably  less than 
that. And in her response to our adjudicator, she indicated  she had between three months 
and six months savings. In any event,  with PPI, I think  Ms R would have been able to use 
those savings on her other  essential  expenditure at what  would have no doubt been a very 
stressful time for her if she was out of work.  
Ms R told us that she would have  been able to rely on family support if she lost her job. And I 
dont doubt that it would have been the intention of those family  members  to help. But 
circumstances can change and theres  no guarantee that help would  have been  available  to 
Ms R as and when she needed  it. Ultimately, although I take on board that Ms R said her 
mortgage was relatively  low, the loan was secured  on her property. And her home  was at 
great risk if she fell behind  with her payments. 
With all of this in mind, I think the PPI probably  was a suitable policy for her. 
BOS still had to give Ms R enough  information about  the PPI so she could decide for herself  
whether it was a good fit for her needs. Its possible that BOS didnt tell Ms R everything it 
should have done about the cover. But I dont think more or better information about  it would 
have put her off buying it. I say this because  I think it could have been helpful  for her if she 
couldnt work. And I appreciate  she doesnt  now remember,  but I think she probably  chose  to 
buy this policy at the time. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms R, but I dont uphold her complaint with regard  to the mis-sale. 
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms R because: 
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it says it should have told Ms R about that. Because BOS didnt tell Ms R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN88191153my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms R.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms R any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8819115