K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the amount  that hes been charged by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited for damage to a car that he returned when his hire purchase agreement 
ended. He also complains about  the service  that hes received from it.
background 
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a hire purchase agreement  with Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services that he signed in September  2014. The car was about six months old and 
its mileage was shown  on the agreement as being  5,000 miles. Mr S returned the car when 
the agreement  ended  and it was collected and inspected by a third party on behalf of 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services in September 2018 and a vehicle condition report was 
prepared. The report identified a missing  registration certificate, damage to three wheels 
which need to be refurbished, damage  to a wheel which  needed to be replaced and an 
incorrect tyre which needed to be replaced. And the report recommended charges totalling 
£898.68. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services charged Mr S £25 for the missing  registration 
certificate, £873.68 for the damage  and £922.88  for excess mileage. 
Mr S complained to Mercedes-Benz Financial Services that the inspector had said that there 
was no damage,  hed asked that the car not be collected if there was damage  so that he 
could deal with it and that hed returned the car with a sat-nav  system that hed paid to have 
added to the car. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services offered  to reduce the damage charges 
by 25% so that the total amount  due from Mr S would be £1,603.14. But Mr S wasnt  
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
charges for the missing  certificate and wheel damage were fair amounts so he couldnt say 
that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services had done  anything wrong by charging those 
amounts. He didnt  think that it was fair for Mercedes-Benz Financial Services to charge  
£162.14 for a replacement tyre  but as it had already  offered to reduce the damage charge 
by more than that amount, he said that he couldnt ask it to do anything  more.
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that:
when he spoke to Mercedes-Benz Financial Services he stated that the car wasnt to 
be taken if he was going to be charged  for damage;
the inspection  took place earlier than the return date so the car wasnt out of lease, 
which wouldve given him time to deal with any damage if he decided to return  the 
car;
the inspector  said that there  would  be no damage charges and that his fianc signed 
a document confirming that;
he returned the car with a sat-nav that hed paid to have added to the car; and
his fianc gave  the cars registration  certificate to the inspector.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services has charged  Mr S £922.88 for excess mileage. Hes not 
complained about those  charges so I havent  considered those charges any further.
Ref: DRN80727382The hire purchase agreement included the vehicle condition terms and said that the car must 
be returned in a good and clean condition and that if it wasnt looked after properly and 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services suffers a loss as a result the customer  will have to 
compensate it.
Mr S asked for his car to be collected  when his hire purchase agreement  ended and 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services arranged  for it to be collected  from him in September  
2018. It instructed  a third party to collect the car on its behalf and the third party then 
inspected the car and prepared a vehicle condition report. The cars mileage when it was 
collected was 46,165  miles  and the vehicle condition  report shows  the cars mileage as 
being 46,176 miles.  The report identified damage to all four wheels, an incorrect  tyre and a 
missing registration certificate.  The report included photos of that damage and 
recommended a charge of £898.68 for the damage  and the missing registration  certificate.  
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services charged Mr S for the excess mileage, damage  and 
missing registration certificate  but when he complained to it, it offered to reduce the charge 
for the damage  by 25%. And it has accepted that the registration  certificate  had been  
supplied when the car was collected.
The report  and the photos show damage  to the wheels. Three  of them  are clearly  gouged 
and need a repair and the other  is clearly  dented  and needs  to be replaced.  I consider that 
the damage is more  than would be considered to be fair wear  and tear in accordance with 
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  guidelines on fair wear and tear. So I 
consider that its fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services to charge Mr S 
for the repairs and replacement. And Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to 
show that those  charges  are unfair or unreasonable. Nor am I persuaded that its likely that 
the damage was caused by the third party after the car was collected  from Mr S but before it 
was inspected. 
The report  also identifies that one tyre is of an incorrect specification. But Im not persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that the tyre was of an incorrect  specification  it looks 
to me as though it didnt match the other  tyres - so I consider that its not fair or reasonable 
for Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services to charge him £162.14  for that tyre. But the 25% 
discount on the damage charge that it has already offered to Mr S as goodwill gesture has a 
value of £218.42  which is more than the amount that hes been  charged for the tyre and 
the registration certificate. So Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to further reduce the damage charge. 
Mr S says that hes added  a sat-nav to the car which has increased its value. But it was his 
choice to add the sat-nav  to the car and hes had the benefit of it when he used the car. It 
was also his choice  not to remove the sat-nav before he returned the car  but he didnt do 
so. Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services says that the terms and conditions of the agreement  
say that the customer  mustnt make  any alterations to the car without its prior written  consent 
and that any additions will become its property. Im not persuaded that it would  now be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services to pay Mr S any 
compensation for the sat-nav  that he added  to the car.
Mr S has complained about the service that hes received from Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services. He says that hed told it not to take the car if he was going to be charged for 
damage, that the inspector said that there  would be no damage charges and that his fianc 
signed a document confirming that. But Mr S had asked for the car to be collected  and Im 
Ref: DRN80727383not persuaded that its likely that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services  wouldve agreed that 
the car wouldnt be taken  away if chargeable damage was identified.  Thats  for two main 
reasons. Firstly, it pays a fee to a third party for it to collect the car - and the fee wouldve 
been payable  each time that the third party went to collect the car from Mr S. Secondly, the 
collection report only included an initial assessment of the damage with a more detailed 
inspection taking place  after the car had been collected. Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence  to show that the service that Mr S has received from Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services in connection with the collection and inspection of the car has fallen 
below a reasonably acceptable  level. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services to reduce the charge that its made  to Mr S, to pay him 
any compensation  or to take any other  action  in response to his complaint.
my decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8072738