K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs C took out a mortgage  with Bank  of Scotland in 1992 and bought a PPI policy at the 
same time. I understand its likely the PPI wouldve  paid a monthly benefit for up to 
12 months if Mrs C lost her job and for up to 24 months if she was off work  because of 
sickness or an accident.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Cs complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs C disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mrs C first complained to us she said she had no idea she had PPI with her mortgage. 
More recently, shes said she was told she had to have it. So Mrs Cs recollections  of what 
happened at the time arent  consistent   which I dont think  is surprising for a sale that took 
place so long ago.
But I have seen a copy of the separate  PPI application Mrs C signed at the time  it contains  
her personal  details, her monthly mortgage repayment, the monthly  benefit  the PPI would 
pay and the monthly  cost of the insurance.  Ive also seen Mrs Cs signed mortgage 
application. This has a section  about PPI and says if an applicant  wishes to apply for it they 
should set out the amount  of monthly benefit  they want. The figure  £10  has been  inserted 
here  which  I think is probably  the amount Mrs C wanted to pay each month  for the cover, 
rather than the monthly  benefit she wanted (I understand  her policy  initially  cost her around 
£12 a month).
All this information makes  me think its likely that, at the time, Mrs C discussed her insurance 
needs with Bank of Scotland and agreed  to the cover knowing she had a choice about  it  
even though thats not how she remembers things now.
Bank of Scotland says it advised Mrs C to buy the PPI, so it needed to make  sure it was right 
for her. I dont know  what  steps it took to do this. But, from the information Ive seen about 
the policy details  that are likely to have applied to Mrs Cs PPI and what  she says about her 
circumstances at the time, I think it was right for her. I say this because:
I think its likely Mrs C was eligible for the PPI and wasnt affected  by any of the main 
things the policy  probably wouldnt have covered  like known health issues  and 
unusual employment  terms.  So I think its unlikely there  was anything to stop her 
claiming the full policy  benefit  if shed needed  to.
Ref: DRN88699942I think the PPI couldve  been of use to Mrs C if things  got difficult for her. Mrs Cs 
mortgage was a major and long-term financial commitment that was secured on her 
home  which  was at risk if she fell behind with her mortgage repayments.  And while 
Mrs C says she had good sick pay, its likely the PPI couldve paid out for up to 
24 months if Mrs C was off work  because of sickness or an accident  which was 
much longer than Mrs Cs full sick pay lasted.  And its likely  it wouldve paid out for 
up to 12 months if she lost her job. Mrs C also says her partner couldve helped her 
if needed. But this kind of help cant be guaranteed and isnt the same as having an 
insurance policy to fall back on. So it doesnt  change my conclusions on this point.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the cost of the policy made  it unsuitable for 
Mrs C.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mrs C, Bank of Scotland also had to give her 
enough clear information  about  it for her to decide, in an informed way, if she wanted  it. I 
dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to do this. But, as Ive said, I think its likely  
Mrs C agreed  to the PPI knowing  she didnt have  to and I think  it was right for her in her 
circumstances. I think  clearer information, had it been needed, would only have  confirmed 
this to Mrs C and wouldnt have  made  her change her mind about  taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8869994