K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mr A says 
Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold to him with a credit card in 2001.  
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. However, Mr A has already been paid back some money for the 
commission Lloyds received from selling him the PPI.
Mr A still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and has therefore asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As mis-sale complaint.
Lloyds sent me a copy of his application form and this shows  he was given an option  about 
having PPI and he selected  the yes option  and left the no one blank. I also think  the PPI 
charges would have also shown up regularly  on Mr As statements. Theres  no dispute PPI 
was sold to him, so I think if he hadnt wanted  it, he would have wanted to know why these 
charges were starting  to occur.
I therefore think there is solid evidence Lloyds properly obtained Mr As consent.
Lloyds recommended the PPI cover so this means  it was under an obligation to make  sure it 
was suitable for Mr As situation. I looked carefully at Mr As age, job, health  and general 
circumstances to help me decide about this. 
I think that Mr A was eligible for the PPI and I dont think he would  have been  caught by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  We also now know the cost was 
around £0.79 per £100 of the outstanding  monthly balance on Mr As account which is 
broadly similar to other PPI policies  sold at the time. I think it was affordable  for him.
Mr A says he already  had sickness protection with his job from that time, implying he didnt 
need the cover. I understand his point, but Im afraid this doesnt  mean  the policy wasnt  
suitable. In the event  of a successful claim for example, Mr A would have been able to have 
his outstanding balance reduced by 5% each month for up to 12 months. These  benefits  
were accessible  in addition to any other  means  he already had in place at the time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the cover was probably  suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to give Mr A clear information.  I cant confirm he was told everything he 
should have been told and I can see ways  where the application  form could have been  set 
out in a better way. But I think he was given a choice  and he agreed to the policy. I also think 
he would  have been given some documents  explaining how the cover  worked.
Ref: DRN89457832Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all the costs  of the PPI. But Lloyds has 
already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because when the policy  was sold, it 
expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - it should have  told Mr A about  that. Because Lloyds didnt, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has already  paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Lloyds Bank Plc has already paid him for the commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8945783