K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complained that Shop  Direct  Finance Company Limited  (Shop Direct Finance) sold a 
debt to a third party even though that debt was in dispute. 
background
Mrs K bought a fridge freezer online in 2016.  She says the product  was on sale at the time, 
with an additional  20% discount  if bought  on a buy now, pay later basis.  Mrs K says she 
selected that option but Shop Direct  Finance subsequently told her that she hadnt done so. 
Instead it put her on a payment plan with a term of 104 weeks and interest  at 44.9%.  
An ombudsman has already considered Mrs Ks complaint that Shop Direct Finance didnt 
honour the buy now, pay later agreement  she says she selected when she purchased a 
fridge freezer online. And her complaint that the payment plan was added  to or changed 
without her consent. I will not reconsider those issues.
The ombudsman also considered Mrs Ks complaint that the £50 Shop Direct  Finance had 
given her for some problems shed had when the fridge freezer was delivered to her property  
wasnt sufficient. The ombudsman said she wouldnt be asking Shop Direct Finance to do 
any more in relation  to this and said it had credited this amount to her account, which  
reduced the balance Mrs K owed. I know that Mrs K isnt happy  that the amount was 
credited to her account rather than given to her directly. But as this was considered as part 
of the previous ombudsmans  decision, I will not consider  that issue  again. 
Mrs K subsequently complained that Shop Direct Finance shouldnt have sold her debt to a 
third party in September 2017 when it was still in dispute. Its that issue Ive been  asked to 
look at.  
Shop Direct Finance  said that it had only sold Mrs Ks account  to a third party  debt collector 
after her complaint had been resolved. Mrs K wasnt happy with Shop Direct Finances  
response and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  the 
complaint and, as Mrs K disagreed with her view, the complaint has now come to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that Shop Direct Finance  doesnt  need to do any more.  Let me explain  why.
Mrs K says Shop Direct Finance shouldnt have sold her account to a third party while  the 
debt was still in dispute. She says Shop Direct Finance gave her six months  to refer a 
complaint to this service  and believes it should  have  waited until shed done that before 
selling her account to a third party. In support of her view,  she quotes parts of The 
Consumer Credit sourcebook, which sets out the obligations of firms engaging in 
credit-related regulated  activities . Section 7.14.1  states that a firm must suspend  any steps it 
takes, or its agent  takes, in the recovery of a debt from a customer  where the customer 
disputes the debt on valid grounds or what may be valid grounds. And section 7.14.3 then 
goes on to say that where a customer disputes  a debt on valid grounds or what  may be valid 
grounds, the firm must investigate the dispute  and provide  details of the debt to the customer 
in a timely manner.
Ref: DRN84452372In this case, Mrs Ks dispute was with Shop Direct Finance. It investigated  her complaint and 
issued a final response in July 2017. It issued a default notice  to Mrs K in September  2017  
and, because Mrs K didnt make the required payment, the debt was then sold to a third 
party. The debt was therefore sold after Shop  Direct  Finance had investigated the dispute  
and provided its final response. I recognise  that Mrs K believes Shop Direct Finance should 
have waited until shed  referred her complaint  to this service before selling her account but I 
think it was reasonable  for it to take the action it did once it had investigated the dispute and 
issued its final response.  In those circumstances, and having carefully considered  the 
relevant guidance,  Im satisfied that Shop Direct Finance have acted  fairly  in this instance.  
As such,  I dont think it needs to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8445237