K821x#15complaint
Mr K complained about the exclusions Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe)  Limited 
applied to his pet insurance policy after he made  a claim. My references to Red Sands 
include its agents.
background
Mr K has a pet policy with Red Sands for his cat which  provides cover  for 365 days 
(12 months)  from the onset signs and symptoms  of a medical condition, up to the annual 
condition limit and annual policy limit.
In March 2018 Mr K claimed for vet tests for his cats weight loss and diarrhoea.  Red Sands  
accepted the claim but added the following  policy exclusions:
all claims with respect to the digestive  system with effect from 27 October 2017 
(renewal of the policy)
all claims with respect to anything to do with weight loss that occurred on 20 
May 2017 and resulting conditions with effect from 27 October 2017
all claims with respect to the urinary system with effect from 27 October  2017.
Mr Ks vet told Red Sands that from the cats blood  results there  was no obvious  cause  for 
the diarrhoea  and weight loss which she suspected could be due to a change in diet. The vet 
said there was no medical reason for the above exclusions. As the vet had confirmed  the 
tests showed  no sign of kidney disease or renal failure Red Sands agreed  to remove the 
claims to the urinary system  exclusion. It wouldnt remove  the other two exclusions which it 
said had been  applied in line with its underwriting criteria.
Mr K complained to us. He said the remaining exclusions were too broad in scope and 
represented symptoms  not specific medical conditions.  The diagnosis  by the vet had been 
unknown cause of weight loss and diarrhoea and no illness  was diagnosed. He wanted 
Red Sands  to remove all the exclusions.
Our investigator thought Red Sands should remove the exclusions.
Red Sands  agreed  to remove  the weight loss claims exclusion, as the cats weight loss was 
minimal. It also agreed to remove the digestive system claims exclusion but wanted to 
replace that with a vomiting  and diarrhoea exclusion. It said the cat went to the vet for 
vomiting and diarrhoea in February 2018  which hed had for three weeks so starting about 
30 January 2018.The exclusion would be added to the policy with effect from 27 October 
2018 with cover remaining in place until 29 January 2019.
Mr K didnt agree to the new exclusion.  He still thought the exclusion was too broad and not 
linked to a condition. He said the policy wasnt clear symptoms could be excluded.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
The only issue now in dispute is whether Red Sands can fairly and reasonably  add an 
exclusion for claims relating to vomiting  and diarrhoea  with effect from 27 October 2017 in 
Ref: DRN82602652place of the digestive system claims exclusion.  I dont  think  it can. It must remove  the 
digestive system claims exclusion without adding the suggested  replacement.
The key facts/policy summary says the policy covers:
All reasonable costs for treatment of your pet by a vet due to accident,  illness  or disease  up 
to the maximum benefit limit as specified in your schedule. (Cover is provided for up to 365 
days only from the date of occurrence,  up to the amount specified in your policy  limit.).
The parties have  concentrated on the policy definition of condition, which includes:
manifestation of an illness having  the same diagnostic classification or resulting from the 
same disease process regardless  of the number of incidents or areas of your pets  body 
affected.
The vets evidence is that Mr Ks cat hadnt  been diagnosed with any medical condition. But 
I also need to look at the policy definition  of illness which is:
sickness, disease, infection or any change in your pets  normal healthy state which  is not 
caused by injury.
Mr Ks cats vomiting and diarrhoea was mentioned in the vets notes in September 2017  as 
occasional and it was agreed to change  his diet and monitor. In February 2018 the cat 
returned to the vet due to having diarrhoea. Hed been looked  after by a cat sitter  while  Mr K 
was on holiday.  Tests  were done but no underlying  cause found. The vets evidence to 
Red Sands  is she suspects the cats issues could be due to a change of diet.
I accept that in some circumstances vomiting and diarrhoea could be a change in (the cats)  
normal healthy state, and be an illness. But in this case, following tests, the vets evidence  is 
that a change of diet was the likely cause. In those circumstances I think  it unfair for 
Red Sands  to say the cats vomiting and diarrhoea was an illness.
Red Sands' underwriting guidance is that if Mr Ks cat has any form of digestive  system 
illness it applies an exclusion to the entire  digestive system. But for the reasons Ive given 
above Red Sands cant  fairly rely on the cats September 2017 or February 2018 vomiting 
and diarrhoea to add the exclusion  for claims relating to the digestive system. It must 
remove that exclusion from the policy with effect  from the date the exclusion came into 
effect. For the same reasons it cannot add a vomiting and diarrhoea exclusion as a 
replacement exclusion.
Red Sands  has already  agreed to remove the claims for weight loss exclusion,  which  I would 
have required it to do if it had not agreed. That exclusion  must  also be removed with effect 
from the date the exclusion  came  into effect.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr K said he had no further comments.  Red Sands  didnt respond by the response date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN82602653As Mr K agrees and Red Sands hasnt responded to my provisional decision I have no 
reason to change  my mind. For the reasons  given  in my provisional and these findings 
I uphold this complaint.  
Red Sands  must remove the exclusion for all claims with respect  to anything to do with 
weight loss that occurred on 20 May 2017  and resulting  conditions  with effect from the date 
the exclusion came into effect  (as its now agreed).  It must also remove  the exclusion for all 
claims with respect to the digestive system with effect from the date the exclusion came into 
effect.  It cannot add the exclusion for all claims for vomiting and diarrhoea with effect from 
27 October 2018 as its proposed.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
remove the exclusion for all claims with respect  to anything to do with weight loss 
that occurred  on 20 May 2017 and resulting conditions with effect from the date the 
exclusion came  into effect  (as its now agreed),  and
remove the exclusion for all claims with respect  to the digestive system with effect  
from the date the exclusion  came  into effect. It cannot add the exclusion for all claims 
for vomiting and diarrhoea with effect  from 27 October  2018  as its proposed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8260265