K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs unhappy with a cash  in lieu offer made  by Acromas  Insurance  Company Limited to 
allow him to complete the repairs to his car after he made a claim on his motor  insurance 
policy following an accident.  He says the offer doesnt cover the cost of the remaining 
repairs.
background
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said on the available  evidence  
Acromas cash  in lieu offer of £396 wasnt reasonable for the outstanding repairs  needed to 
Mr Gs car. It wasnt reflective of all the work  that needed to be completed to it. So, Acromas 
should therefore reconsider Mr Gs claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Acromas has asked  for an ombudsman review.  Its now confirmed that the cash in lieu offer 
was only in respect of the washer bottle  and removing and refitting the front bumper. And its 
cash in lieu offer is fair for this work.  It knows it has to pay more but it is waiting for an 
estimate from Mr G. Its also pointed  out the claim is on hold because of an investigation by 
its claims validation team and it will be dealt with in accordance  with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr G agrees with the investigators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Acromas  could  have communicated with Mr G more clearly.  But it has now clarified 
that its offer of the £396  cash in lieu payment is only for the washer  bottle and removing and 
refitting of the front bumper. Its also acknowledged that more work will be required as part of 
the claim and says its asked Mr G repeatedly to submit an estimate for this. Its also said its 
put the claim on hold pending the outcome of an investigation by its claims validation  team.
Im sure both parties want this claim resolved as quickly  as possible. So, I would urge 
Acromas to conclude its fraud  investigation  as soon as it reasonably can. I would  also 
encourage Mr G to promptly provide Acromas with the estimate for the additional  repairs 
needed which its apparently repeatedly asked for.
I agree  that the investigator that Acromas should, at the earliest appropriate opportunity,  
then reconsider Mr Gs claim in its entirety  in accordance with the policy  terms and 
conditions.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Acromas should reconsider Mr Gs claim in 
accordance with the policy  terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Ref: DRN83666312Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8366631