K821x#15complaint
Mrs R has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc wrongly advised her to make a serious of 
unsuitable investments.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 25 February 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Neither Clydesdale Bank  Plc nor the representative of Mrs R made any further comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons set out in that decision I 
am satisfied  that this complaint should  be upheld with compensation as outlined.
So Clydesdale should pay compensation on the basis that Mrs R should only have invested 
£6,000 in the Conservative Portfolio (CP) and nothing in the equity fund by comparing what 
she received on half of her investment in the CP plus the £5,000 she invested in the equity 
fund with what return she might have got keeping this money  free from risk. To do this it 
should the returns as shown by the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity.  It 
should also factor in a fair percentage  of any withdrawals.
If such a comparison shows a loss or losses it should pay these and add 8% simple interest 
to this figure or figures from the date Mrs R surrendered the products to the date of 
settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Clydesdale  Bank  Plc to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84781092provisional decision
complaint
Mrs R has complained that Clydesdale  Bank Plc wrongly advised her to make a serious of unsuitable 
investments.
background
Mrs Rs representative said she was pestered into going into her local bank to discuss what  to do with 
her savings i.e. she had not sought  investment  advice.
She was advised to invest £6,000 in the MLC  Conservati ve Portfo lio in 1997,  with a further top-up of 
£6,000 in 1998. She was also advised,  in 1998, to invest £5,000 in the MLC  UK Equity Fund Unit 
Trust, which was transferred into a Maxi ISA in April 2001. 
Clydesdale initially argued that this complaint  had been  made outside the permitted time limits  but an 
adjudicator did not agree.  An ombudsman  subsequently considered its objections and concluded that 
the complaint was within our jurisdiction.
It then put forward  the following points about the merits of the case:
It does  not have  copies of the documentation completed at the time of the sale and Mrs Rs 
representatives have been unable to provide  any evidence of her finances and circumstances  
at the time
It has evidence that Mrs R had previously held previous investments but had no information 
about how much had been invested or in which product/s. (Mrs R did not provide any further 
information beyond saying that her husband managed their financial affairs prior to his death)
If the 20% loss on the Growth fund is held not to be notice of a potential  problem (as the 
ombudsman concluded  when assessing its jurisdiction objections)  then this suggests that her 
attitude to risk was likely  to be in line with at least some of the recommendations
It does  not accept  that the initial  investment  in 1997 of £6,000 from the £25k available into a 
broadly diversified fund left Mrs R overcommitted
Mrs Rs representatives said that Mrs R was aged 66 at the time of the first recommendation and had 
run a small market stall with her husband until his death the previous year,  after which she retired 
and passed the stall on relatives. She recall s having at most £25,000 in her savings accou nt, 
said she and was receiving a basic state  pensi on.
The adjudicator who considered this case she felt it was difficult to establish exactly what Mrs Rs attitude 
to risk may have been at that time but assumed she was not risk averse given her previous experience. 
Overall, she felt Mrs R was probably in a position to take a small risk with her money. But taking into account 
her changes in circumstances following her husbands death (and the loss of income from the market stall) 
she did not believe Mrs R would have been in a position to take a significant risk with what remained of her 
savings.
She was satisfied that the Conservative Portfolio - mostly invested in bonds and cash - was a low risk 
fund and not obviously unsuitable for. Mrs Rs circumstances at that time. But she thought the Equity 
fund represented a greater  risk than Mrs R was in a position to take at the time of the sale. 
She therefore  felt Clydesdale  should pay compensation  the £5,000 invested in this fund, and by using 
this services no-risk formula; that is the average rate fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as a benchmark.
Clydesdale did not offer any further  comments.
Ref: DRN84781093my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
I recognise it is difficult for both parties when  little information is available as in this case. But I am 
satisfied that there  is sufficient evidence to come  to a fair and reasonable decision on the balance  of 
probabilities.
Although the evidence  indicated there had been an investment or investments in Mrs Rs name in the 
past, Mrs R herself  said her husband had dealt with such matters. I have no reason to doubt  this. So 
this does not indicate either that Mrs R might  have been happy  with exposing her money to risk in the 
past, let alone that she wanted to do this after her husbands death,  and when she was 66 and 68 on 
the respective advice  dates, retired and with no ongoing income from her late husbands business.
From this information alone I am satisfied that Mrs R probably should  not have been advised to take 
much, if any, risk with any of her savings.  From  what Ive read, she would  have had no means  of 
making up any losses and was likely to need access to at least of this money
to support her retirement. If Mr R had held an investment in Mrs Rs name this does not mean she 
necessarily had any knowledge about or experience of investments and from what is little is known I 
doubt she would have been a knowledgeable investor. I think  she would have been almost entirely 
reliant on the advisor to assess her needs and circumstances and advise her accordingly.
In this context, I think he should not have advised her to invest anything  like as much as £17,000  of 
her £25,000,  assuming these figures are correct, given her age and status. Overall, I think  one third of 
her savings would have been a more appropriate figure.
I do not think  it was best advice to recommend investing two tranches  of £6,000 in the same product. 
This, in my view, did not provide suitable diversification.  I also have broader  concerns  about the 
product itself given it had a fairly specialised  asset mix and posed  unnecessary currency risks. If there 
was more information available I think it is possible that I would have concluded that Mrs R should  not 
have invested any money in this product.
I also agree with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, about the equity fund. Information  from 
the internet, albeit about  a more recent version of this product, strongly  suggests it posed more of a 
risk to Mrs Rs money than I believe she should have been advised to take.
So even if I felt Mrs R might have been suitably advised  to invest, say, two-thirds of her money  
which I dont  I dont believe this was a suitable recommendation.
Given this, I currently believe Clydesdale should pay compensation on the basis that Mrs R should  
only have been advised to invest (at most) £6,000 in the Conservative Portfolio and no money  in the 
equity fund. It should therefore compare what she received via half of her investment in the first 
product (£6,000) and the £5,000 she invested in the equity fund with what return she might  have got 
keeping this money free of risk. To do this it should the returns as shown  by the Bank of Englands 
bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity. It should factor in a fair percentage of any withdrawals when 
doing this comparison.
If such a comparison shows a loss or losses it should pay these  and add 8% simple interest to this 
figure or figures from the date Mrs R surrendered the products to the date of settlement of this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN84781094my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay compensation  as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8478109