K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1998. Mrs S says Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax at the time) mis-sold her the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland (BoS) throughout this decision rather 
than Halifax.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
And having done all of that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.
BoS has provided us with a copy of Mrs Ss credit  card application and credit agreement that 
she signed at the time of sale. I can see that there  was a section on this document called 
Product Details, below  which there was reference to PPI. And in the box next to PPI there  is 
an X. The X is computer  generated like the rest of the information  about Mrs S  which is, 
in my view,  the likely result of a conversation between  her and BoS as both parties  seem  to 
agree that the sale took place in a meeting and theres nothing  persuasive to suggest 
anything different. As Mrs S signed  for her credit card on this document not far from where 
PPI was referred to, Im satisfied she agreed to take the policy.
Mrs Ss representative did suggest  early  on in the complaint  that she was told that taking PPI 
would improve her chances of getting  the credit  card she wanted. However, theres  nothing  
on the form to suggest that was the case  nor have we been told much about  what was said 
and/or done at the time of sale to support what her representative asserts.  As a result,  Im 
not persuaded Mrs S agreed  to take PPI because she thought she had to given the evidence  
in front of me.
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mrs S  which means  it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for her.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think that the policy  was 
suitable for her. She doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the cover that was available. And in light of what shes told us about her own means 
of keeping up with her repayments  in the event she found herself out of or unable to work, 
she seems to have had a need for the cover.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mrs S clear information. 
So thats what Ive looked at next.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs S about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was a suitable recommendation to 
have made,  I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out 
as it looks like it would have been useful if something went  wrong.
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back the entire cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
Ref: DRN81987212But BoS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because it says it got 
a high level of commission  and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI premiums) - so it 
should have told Mrs S about  that. Because BoS didnt  tell her, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premiums. And I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold  which  means 
Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back the entire cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8198721