K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the way Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) 
managed two catalogue shopping accounts he had with it. 
background
Mr F had two separately branded catalogue  shopping accounts with Shop Direct.
In February 2017  the direct debits Mr F had set up to make repayments on the accounts 
were cancelled by Mr F. Mr Fs bank accepted responsibility for this in August 2017 and 
confirmed it had cancelled  a number of Mr Fs direct  debits  in error. 
Mr F didnt  make any payments  on either  account  after 24 May 2017. 
Mr F contacted Shop  Direct  in August  2017 to explain hed missed  payments because of the 
error made by his bank. His bank also sent Shop  Direct a letter explaining this. 
Mr F didnt  make any payments  after this. Shop Direct terminated  both of Mr Fs accounts  in 
November 2017.  The debt on the accounts was sold to a third party debt purchaser  in 
December 2017.  
Mr F wasnt happy that Shop Direct recorded  defaults on his credit file and sold the debts 
when he had explained the reason for missing payments wasnt his fault. 
I issued a provisional decision in June 2019 where I explained my reasons for not upholding 
Mr Fs complaint. I explained  the following:
Mr F didnt  make any payments  on his accounts  after 24 May 2017. Shop Directs 
record of contact with Mr F shows he spoke with it on 18 August 2017 to explain the 
reason hed missed  payments was because  of an error made by his bank and hed 
been out of the country and hadnt noticed his direct debits werent being paid 
Shop Directs records show Mr Fs direct debits  were cancelled on 28 February  2017. 
But  Mr  F made payments  in March, April (twice  on one account) and May 2017.  I 
see from Mr Fs account statements that in the months immediately previous to this, 
his direct debit payments  covered the precise minimum repayment required on each 
account. Yet in the months  after the direct  debits were cancelled  the amounts paid 
were different to the minimum requested payments. So it looks  like Mr F made  
manual payments in these months. From this, I think Mr F must have known that his 
direct debits werent being collected   otherwise its likely these payments would 
have been missed. 
On balance I dont  think the error made  by Mr Fs bank was the reason he missed  
payments between May 2017 and August 2017.
Ive seen evidence  that Mr Fs bank  wrote to Shop Direct in August 2017 to explain 
the error  it had made in February  2017 and asking it to make any adjustments to the 
account that were  necessary. Shop Direct says it never received this letter. But given 
that Ive found  its unlikely  that the reason  for Mr Fs arrears at this point was 
because of the error his bank made, I wouldnt have expected Shop Direct to make 
any retrospective adjustments to his accounts anyway. 
Ref: DRN84500722So, I dont find Shop Direct acted unreasonably by continuing to ask Mr F to make 
repayments on the accounts after he told it about  the error.  I think  its likely it would 
have done this even if it had received the letter from Mr Fs bank because the letter 
doesnt explain why Mr F missed payments in June and July 2017 having  made  
manual payments in March, April and May 2017.  
The letter does give new bank account details for Mr F with an explanation that Shop  
Direct should claim all future  payments from this account. But by this point Mr Fs 
minimum payment had risen to around £585 on one account and around £202 on the 
other. So it would not have  been reasonable to simply  resume  direct debit collection 
as this might  not have  been affordable to Mr F in one hit. 
Shop Directs notes show Mr F spoke to it again  in August 2017 to say hed 
experienced a rapid change in circumstances and would  call back.  Theres no 
record that he did call back again until October  2017  when he asked for account 
statements to help support his complaint against his bank. 
It might have  been better if Shop Direct  had been  more proactive and contacted Mr F 
again if it suspected he was experiencing financial difficulties. I dont think this would 
have made  much difference though. Ive seen evidence  on Mr Fs accounts with 
other businesses where payment plans were  agreed  during this period but not 
followed. On balance I think its equally likely  in this case that Mr F would not have 
kept to a payment plan, had one been  arranged. So its likely  Mr F would have ended 
up in the same position anyway. 
Also, I can see from Mr Fs monthly  statements  that Shop Direct added no more 
interest or charges to one of his accounts (account  number ending  2452) from 
August 2017 to the point  it sold the debt on the account to a third party. Without  any 
further contact from Mr F about  his change in circumstances, I think  Shop Direct did 
more than could  reasonably be expected of it in respect of Mr Fs overall level of debt 
by adding no more  interest to the account.  Shop  Direct did continue  charging interest 
on the other account until October 2017.  But seeing  as Mr F hadnt  made  his 
financial position very clear, I dont  think Shop  Direct should  refund this.
By the time Shop Direct  sent Mr F a default notice in November 2017  he hadnt made 
a payment in six months. And he didnt make one after the notice had been sent. I 
dont think it was unfair of Shop Direct to send a default notice or to record  the 
account as in default with the credit  reference agencies. The reason Mr F gave for 
not making any payments between May 2017 and August 2017 was not plausible  
from what Ive seen  and Shop  Direct  had not received a reasonable explanation why 
Mr F wasnt paying from August 2017  onwards. 
Mr F has said he made no more payments after August 2017  because he was told by 
Shop Direct that his account was on hold while he sorted out the issue  with his bank 
and he was told not to make  a payment when he offered to do this. But this isnt 
reflected in Shop Directs call notes. In fact one call note made in November 2017 
says that Mr F was advised to make a payment  because the account  could not be 
put on hold. On balance I think its unlikely Shop Direct would  have told Mr F not to 
make a payment.  
Ref: DRN84500723Shop Direct sold the debt on Mr Fs accounts  to a third party  debt purchaser in       
December 2017.  The terms  of Mr Fs accounts did permit it to do this. And I can see 
it sent Mr F the appropriate  notices explaining it had done this. Given the findings Ive 
made in respect  of Mr Fs reasons for not paying, I dont think  Shop Direct 
unreasonably sold the debts to the debt purchaser.   
Overall, I dont  think Shop Direct has acted unfairly in this case  so I dont require  it to 
take any further action.
I asked both Mr F and Shop Direct  to get back to me by 8 July 2019 with any further  
evidence or comments they wished to add. 
Shop Direct said it accepted my provisional  decision. 
Mr F did not accept it. He said it was wrong  of me to make  assumptions about his finances 
and he did everything  he could to avoid what happened on his account. 
The complaint has now been passed back to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I recognise  Mr Fs strength  of the feeling  on the matter, Ive still not seen anything  
that makes me think it was unfair  for Shop Direct  to terminate  his account or sell the debt on. 
Mr F says he did everything he could to avoid  this. But Ive not seen anything which makes 
me think it was reasonable for Mr F to stop making  payments on his account  from May 2017 
up to the point it was terminated. The evidence Ive seen shows Shop Direct continued to 
request monthly  payments from Mr F after hed explained  the reason he missed payments in 
August 2017 and Ive not seen anything that makes  me think  it told him he could  stop 
paying.  
I recognise that Mr F did have problems  with some of his direct debits as a result of an error 
made by his bank.  But from what I have seen, those problems did not adversely affect Mr Fs 
accounts with Shop Direct in this complaint because he started  making manual payments as 
soon as the direct debits  were cancelled. So he must have known what had happened  and 
that he either needed to carry on making  manual payments  or set up another direct debit to 
keep the accounts up to date. 
So I still dont think Shop Direct needs  to do anything further  in respect of Mr Fs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8450072