K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy.
background
In 2018 Mr C returned from a holiday and noticed some damage  to his suitcase. He thought  
some items might be missing, but couldnt  be sure how many. He discussed this with airline 
staff at the airport then,  once at home,  made a list of items he thought to be missing.  He then 
made a claim on his travel insurance  policy.
UKI initially said Mr C hadnt provided  a Property  Irregularity Report (PIR) from his airline 
and a police  report. Mr C said he wasnt given a crime report, the police wouldnt issue  it 
because they couldnt determine  where  the incident  had taken place. But he was able to get 
a crime number and the officers  collar number. There seems to some confusion over what 
Mr C was asked to provide when  he spoke to UKI, but when Mr C did provide a report  from 
his airline, and the crime number, UKI still declined  his claim. 
UKI said the PIR only mentioned  one item  not the number  of items Mr C was claiming. And 
because the airline had offered to reimburse Mr C for this item, theres nothing left for him to 
claim from them. It also didnt think Mr C would be able to fit the number of items hes 
claiming for into the part of the suitcase  he says they were  in.
Mr C disputes the PIR and that the items  in question wouldnt fit. He says the PIR isnt an 
accurate record of the conversation he had at the airport, and the items would fit. He said he 
wasnt given either  a damage  report for his suitcase  or a PIR at the time.  The only report 
hes received was sent to him later. Mr C says he has done what  he can to substantiate his 
claim by providing proof of ownership, his airline tickets and reporting the matter  to the 
police. He says his health has been greatly affected by the matter  resulting in him being  in 
and out of hospital. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said Mr C had shown ownership of items he said 
were missing, and hed been  able to provide a PIR and crime  number.  He also said Mr Cs 
testimony had been detailed  and consistent  throughout   so he didnt think UKI had 
assessed the claim properly, taking into account  the available evidence. He thought UKI 
should reassess the claim in-line  with the remaining terms  and conditions.  And he awarded 
some compensation for the trouble  and upset suffered by Mr C. 
UKI disagreed, and in summary its said that Mr Cs complaint should be against his airline.  
Only one item is recorded on the PIR which the airline has offered to reimburse. Because  
thats the only item evidenced on the report, theres  nothing left for Mr C to claim from UKI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to decide  whether UKI has 
applied the terms  of Mr Cs policy fairly,  and in line with relevant rules and industry 
guidelines. 
Ref: DRN85204652UKI has said the PIR only lists one item  not the number of items Mr C has claimed for. It 
said it discussed the report with Mr Cs airline, who said it had carried  out its own 
investigation, and considers any potential  loss to be for just one item.  
But the PIR has very little detail, its unclear and simply reads:
-think  he has partners  dress in fron (sic) pocket 
So it doesnt  seem  to have been  known what was packed where,  or what  might be missing. 
And Ive not seen  anything to show Mr C was given a report at the time  the report  provided 
by his airline was sent to him after his discussion at the airport.  
I dont think Mr Cs testimony  is implausible, its not unreasonable that after a long flight Mr C 
wouldnt remember exactly how hed packed. So I think its more likely he wouldve wanted 
to double-check  what could  be missing  when he got home.  He has been  clear and 
consistent throughout in his testimony,  provided as much as he can to prove ownership of 
the items  and he reported the matter  to the police  as soon as he could. 
Industry guidelines say UKI should  handle  Mr Cs claim promptly,  fairly and reasonably. But I 
dont think it has  given  what  Ive seen Mr C has done, said and provided to support his 
claim. So, on balance,  I think Mr Cs account is a more persuasive version of events.
And I think UKI should  settle the claim,  less any item Mr C may have already been 
reimbursed for by his airline, in-line with the remaining  policy terms, limits and excesses.
Our investigator thought Mr C should be awarded  compensation for UKIs handling of the 
claim, and he felt £500 was fair. Ive seen Mr C has had to spend  a lot of time trying to 
resolve things, and hes said his health has been greatly affected by the matter. So 
considering the impact  on Mr C, the amount of time hes had to spend trying  to resolve the 
issue and the trouble  and upset its caused   I think this amount  is fair.
what UKI should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mr C, UKI should:
settle his claim in line with the remaining policy terms,  limits  and excess;
pay Mr C £500 for the trouble and upset  it caused
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require UK Insurance Limited  to settle 
this complaint in the manner Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8520465