K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr A payment protection  
insurance (PPI). 
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1990 to cover  a 
mortgage. Mr D was the original borrower  and the PPI was sold to Mr A when there  was a 
transfer of the equity  to him. The PPI covered  Mr A only for accident, sickness  and disability. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr A says he was not made aware of the inclusion of the PPI  and in fact would later have 
claimed on it, if hed known. However,  Ive seen a document that Mr A signed  to apply for the 
PPI, and there is evidence that Mr A asked for the PPI to be increased not longer afterwards.
This did all happen  a very long time ago, however  about 28 years  ago. So I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened so long ago, and I wouldnt be 
surprised if Mr A doesnt now remember all the details. But I do think  the evidence suggests  
Bank of Scotland made him aware that he was signing  up for PPI  and I think  it gave  him a 
choice about it.  
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply.
I think it likely Bank  of Scotland recommended  the PPI to Mr A, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach  during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr As particular circumstances. Finding yourself  unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties.  And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen  of Mr As situation at the time. 
Its likely  Mr A was eligible for the policy. 
Mr A was self-employed  and so didnt have  cover if he was off work due to sickness. 
Hes also said he didnt have savings. So the PPI could have given important help if 
he had to take time off work. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford  the PPI when he took it out. 
Ref: DRN88123682So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr A to decide whether he wanted  to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether  Mr A took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr A would have been  affected  by any of these at the time of the application. 
And hed be paying for it monthly, so he could cancel it at any time without further cost if his 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8812368