K821x#15complaint
Miss C says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four loans Sunny provided  to Miss C between  August 2018 and 
September 2018. Miss Cs borrowing history is set out on the table below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
Amount
1 12/08/2018 outstanding 6 £200.00 £60.53
2 01/09/2018 outstanding 6 £100.00 £92.20
3 02/09/2018 03/12/2018 6 £100.00 £123.66
4 04/09/2018 04/01/2019 6 £150.00 £166.68
Miss C has told us at the time she took out these loans she was struggling to pay her 
expenses and her other payday loans from other lenders. And she says that Sunny failed to 
check her expenses and encouraged her to borrow more than she could afford which  has 
affected her health.
In its final response Sunny said it would not uphold  Miss Cs complaint.
 
Our adjudicator told Miss C he hadnt seen enough  to say that Sunny was wrong to give 
Miss C loans 1-3 but she said it shouldnt  have provided loan 4. Sunny disagreed  with this 
view. It said looking at the short time from loan 1 to loan 4 it could not see how this indicated 
that Miss C was having problems managing her money. It said when Miss C applied for all 
her loans it enquired  about her income and expenses including any short-term  lending 
commitments. As the parties are not in agreement, the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss C could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN82221772the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss C could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint. Ive decided to uphold loan 4.
I think the checks Sunny did when  it gave Miss C loans 1-3 were proportionate  and I cant  
say that it was unfair for Sunny to give Miss C loans 1-3.
But when Sunny provided loan 4 by now Miss C still had all the loans outstanding.
Notwithstanding loan 4 was for £150.00 which was more than she borrowed for loans 2 and 
3 but slightly less than the amount she had borrowed for loan 1 which  was £200.00, by now 
Miss C was still repaying all her previous three loans.  She was as a result  repaying more 
than she had been since the start of her lending relationship with Sunny. I can also see that 
Miss C borrowed  loan 3 within  one day of taking loan 2 and when she took out loan 4 she 
took this within two days of borrowing loan 3. So, all in all looking at the overall  picture I think 
on balance Sunny should have been  alerted to the fact that Miss C was more likely having  
problems managing money.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Miss C loan 4.
As I said above, I understand there is an outstanding balance  on loans 1 and 2. If Sunny has 
sold the outstanding debts it should  buy these back if it is able to do so and then take the 
following steps. If Sunny is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise  with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined  below.
Ref: DRN82221773A) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Miss C towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 4, not including anything Sunny has already refunded.
B) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by Miss C 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Miss C as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Miss C having made 
overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal Sunny has 
already written-off.  If this results in a surplus, then the surplus  should  be paid to Miss C.
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Sunny should  try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss C. Sunny shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal Sunny have  already written-off.  
E) Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Miss Cs credit  file in relation  
to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax Sunny has deducted,  if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Cs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8222177