K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about the way in which U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  handled a claim  
under his home insurance policy following an escape of water at his property.
background
In June 2018, Mr Bs property suffered  an escape of water  at his property which caused 
significant damage. He contacted UKI which accepted the claim. It appointed a loss adjuster 
to manage the claim and arranged for Mr B and his partner to move into alternative 
accommodation (AA) until the property was once  again habitable.
Approximately three and a half weeks after making  the claim, Mr B complained to UKI about  
the way the claim  was being handled.  He said he and his partner had been required to move  
six times and were still not in satisfactory AA. He also felt that the disturbance allowance  
(DA) being  paid of £10 per person per day was inadequate to cover his additional expenses 
and that the repair work  wasnt progressing as it should.
While UKI was considering Mr Bs complaint, he continued  to raise concerns about  its 
handling of his AA.
In September  2018, UKI issued its final response letter  on Mr Bs complaint. It conceded 
there had been  some  problems early on in the claim in respect of delays, communication 
and the arrangement of suitable AA. However, it considered that these problems had now 
been resolved  and that its loss adjuster had made special effort  to assist Mr B, including  by 
increasing his DA as a gesture of goodwill. It offered £100 compensation for any trouble and 
upset caused  to Mr B.
UKI agreed  to pay Mr B a cash settlement to cover  the cost of repair works and later agreed 
a cash settlement for his contents claim.  However,  when  UKI paid the contents  cash  
settlement to Mr B, it deducted the value of the deposit on the AA which  it had paid on 
Mr Bs behalf. It said that, provided he hadnt  damaged the property, Mr B would receive this 
money back from the letting agent at the end of his tenancy. Mr B was unhappy at this. He 
was also unhappy  that UKI refused to extend  the term of his AA which was due to end in 
February 2019. He complained about these issues.
In December 2018, UKI issued another final response. It didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It 
said that the deduction of the AA deposit  from the cash  settlement was standard  industry  
practice and that he should receive this money promptly once the tenancy had ended. It said 
that the AA contract had been  for six months  and it saw no reason to extend this.
Mr B was unhappy at UKIs response. He referred his complaint  to us. He said he was 
unhappy with various aspects  of UKIs  service;  that it had failed to take account of his 
partners anxiety; and that it hadnt  reimbursed him for lost earnings due to the time hed 
spent dealing with the claim.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion,  
although UKI had made some mistakes  early on, the £100 compensation which it had paid 
was adequate.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He outlined  the different AA moves he and his 
wife had been forced to undertake. He said that suitable accommodation had been available 
Ref: DRN83503152which would have avoided the need  for all these moves but that UKI had prioritised its 
budget over his well-being. He also said that UKIs  loss adjuster had been  too slow to start 
stripping out the property. He said that the time he had lost due to the mismanagement of 
the claim by UKI and his agents had resulted in a loss of earnings to him of £2,400.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy offers cover  of up to £50,000 in total for AA if the policyholders home is not fit to 
be lived in. The policy states that AA will be reflective of the individuals needs. It further  
states that each claim will be reviewed taking  into account the duration, location and 
occupancy.
It is unfortunate that the availability of suitable AA in Mr Bs area at the start of the claim was 
affected by major sporting  events  which  were taking place nearby. Im satisfied that, against 
this backdrop,  UKI and its agents generally  made reasonable effort to find Mr B 
accommodation reflective of his needs,  though this unfortunately  required  him to move 
between hotels several times during  the first three weeks of the claim until a serviced 
apartment was found in mid-July 2018.
Mr B makes  the point  that this apartment was two-bedroomed  whereas  his home was a four-
bedroomed house. I acknowledge this but Mr B hasnt explained why he needed to be in a 
four-bedroomed house so I dont  consider  that this difference  made the AA unsuitable. I can 
see that UKI tried to improve this accommodation in line with Mr Bs wishes,  for example by 
upgrading the sofa and television. I think this was reasonable.
Nonetheless, Mr B made it known  he wasnt happy  with the apartment. In August 2018,  UKI 
therefore agreed to move  him and his wife to a hotel while  it looked for another AA. A 
suitable property  was found within a week and Mr B moved to this on a six-month  let, which 
was sufficient time for his home to once again be made habitable. 
Mr B thinks  that UKI should have found  him such a property  early on and that this would 
have avoided him having to move so many  times.  However, I dont think UKI could 
reasonably have been expected to find Mr B a property on a six-month let straight away. It 
needed time to decide whether to accept liability for the claim and then to determine  how 
long the repair work  was likely to take.
Mr B has also suggested that UKI unreasonably  sought to save itself money at his expense.  
I think it reasonable for UKI to exercise budgetary controls on the AA beyond simply the 
overall cap of £50,000  and Im satisfied it applied these controls fairly in this case.
While I appreciate that Mr B suffered a lot of disruption, I dont think  that this was generally 
due to failures on the part of UKI and its agents.
With regard to UKIs decision to deduct the AA deposit from the cash  settlement of his 
contents claim, I can see that when it secured the rental property  UKI told Mr B it was paying  
the deposit on his behalf even though it was not required to do so under the policy  and that 
Ref: DRN83503153this amount would  be offset against a future  settlement. I consider this to be reasonable. If 
Mr B objected to this, he should  have made  his objection known at the time, though he 
would then have  had to provide the deposit for the property.
Mr B has suggested that there was an unreasonable delay at the start of the claim. I have 
looked through the file notes. I disagree with Mr Bs suggestion that nothing happened for a 
month. UKI needed  to receive  various  reports to confirm its liability and to fully understand 
the repair work which would be required.  Im satisfied that the claim was generally handled in 
a satisfactory way.
Overall, while  I sympathise with Mr B that he and his wife have been through  a difficult  
experience, I consider  that any stress and inconvenience they have suffered is mainly due to 
the actual insured event rather than failings on the part of UKI. I consider that UKIs offer of 
£100 compensation is fair. I dont consider that it needs to pay Mr B additional compensation 
for loss of earnings.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8350315