K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that her claim against Tesco Personal Finance Plc for some mis-sold  solar 
panels under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (the Act) has been declined.
background
Mrs P bought some solar panels  from a supplier in 2014. Her representative has told us that 
these were mis-sold to her because, amongst  other things, the energy savings promised 
were untrue;  the five-year fitting guarantee couldnt  be honoured because  the supplier went 
into liquidation  in 2016; and the supplier wasnt as experienced as it made  itself out to be.
Mrs P paid part of the purchase price on her Tesco  credit card.  So, shes  seeking  to hold 
Tesco liable for the alleged misrepresentations by the supplier under Section 75 of the Act.
Tesco declined Mrs Ps claim and rejected her subsequent complaint on the basis that the 
savings achieved were  very similar  to the estimates  that the supplier had given her. 
Additionally, there was no evidence that any claim under the guarantee had been  required 
and the alleged misrepresentation about  the experience of the supplier was immaterial.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ps complaint be upheld. She thought  that the 
savings achieved were  approximately what had been estimated by the supplier. And that 
there had been  no loss as a result of the other misrepresentations and alleged  breach of 
contract.
Mrs Ps representative didnt agree and said that the savings had been over-estimated  given 
that the estimate of 50% of the electricity  generated being saved through personal use was 
far too high. It considered that 37% would  be a better estimate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs P but I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the calculations provided  to us. The estimated Feed-in Tariff (FIT) payments 
that the supplier  thought Mrs P would  receive  were  about £400 a year.  It appears thats 
pretty much what she did receive in terms of FIT payments over the three years for which 
weve been provided figures.
Mrs Ps representative thinks that the electricity savings were over-estimated.  In that regard, 
savings of about £170 were predicted  based on 50% of the electricity  generated being 
used by Mrs P in her house. The representative  has told us that a 37% estimate  should  have  
been used as this is more  realistic.  But weve not been provided with any information by the 
representative to show the savings that Mrs P actually achieved. So, I cant say that she 
hasnt received what was predicted,  or thereabouts.
The savings that the supplier predicted were an estimate. It appears that the FIT payments 
were actually quite  accurately predicted. And theres no evidence to show  that Mrs P hasnt 
also achieved the estimated electricity usage  savings. Given  that the FIT payment 
predictions have  been  correct, its my finding that, without any evidence to the contrary, the 
Ref: DRN89417662electricity savings were more likely than not to have been correct  too - in Mrs Ps individual 
circumstances.
Mrs Ps representative has asked that I use a figure  of 37% as a better estimate  of the 
savings that might have  been achieved. At this service, weve used that figure  when 
calculating redress on some other complaints, although thats mostly when weve upheld the 
complaint and think that compensation is due for a period into the future. Thats  not the case 
here as I dont think that the estimates  the supplier  made were misrepresented to Mrs P for 
the period of time shes  already had the panels. So, Mrs P cant have been induced to enter  
into the purchase contract as a result  of something that hasnt  been  shown to be untrue.
Another alleged  misrepresentation  concerns  the suppliers year of incorporation being 2009 
rather than 2002.  But the statement made in relation to the supplier having been  in the solar 
business since 2002 applied to its group  and not the individual limited  company. That 
means the supplier  could  have been  trading through another corporate  entity  or even  as a 
sole trader or partnership  before  then. I also havent  seen any evidence to substantiate  that 
this alleged misrepresentation was so important to Mrs P that she wouldnt have gone ahead 
with the purchase  had she known it to be untrue.
Some reference has been made  to Mrs Ps roof facing south-west, rather than south, as 
stated on the paperwork.  This is alleged to be a misrepresentation too. Although, again, 
theres no evidence  that the effectiveness  of the panels has been reduced as a result of this 
very minor difference.  So, I dont  consider  it to be misrepresentation and no loss appears to 
have resulted from it.
Mrs Ps representative has said that the liquidation of the supplier means that the five-year 
guarantee cannot be met. This is an alleged breach of contract. Though  it now appears  to be 
accepted that, as theres been  no need  to claim on that guarantee, there can have been no 
loss to Mrs P for which Tesco could  be liable under Section 75 of the Act. The 
manufacturers guarantee for the panels  themselves would also appear to be unaffected by 
the suppliers insolvency.
Mrs P apparently also bought an iboost from the same supplier a year later.  There  are 
some unsubstantiated allegations that the need  for this may also have been misrepresented 
to her. Given the lack of evidence available about that, Im unable to make  a finding that its 
benefits were misrepresented to Mrs P. And theres no indication  that Tesco were in any way 
involved with financing  that purchase anyway.  So, I wont  be upholding Mrs Ps complaint on 
that basis either.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint and I dont require that 
Tesco Personal Finance Plc needs  to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8941766