K820x#14complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complained about  Lloyds Bank Insurance  Services Limited. They  werent 
happy with the way Lloyds dealt with the possible renewal  of their home insurance policy.
The complaint has been advanced by their representative and Mr T has sadly passed away  
while the complaint  was being considered by this service.
background
Mrs T and Mr T had a home insurance policy with Lloyds that they didnt want  to renew. 
When it came for renewal, they cancelled their direct debit and wrote to Lloyds explaining 
that they didnt  wish to renew the policy.
Lloyds wrote out explaining it was cancelling the policy as the direct debit had been 
cancelled. It wasnt aware that Mr and Mrs T had written  in around the same time saying 
they didnt want  to renew. Their representative  said they didnt like the way Lloyds letter  was 
worded and the fact it only wrote to Mrs T about the cancelled direct debit. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt  uphold the complaint. Although he accepted 
that some  of Lloyds correspondence couldve been clearer  and understood the 
representatives concerns, he didnt uphold  the complaint.
As the representative  didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have a fair degree of sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ts position.  I say this as 
they didnt want  to renew their policy with Lloyds, so they cancelled  the direct debit and 
wrote a letter of cancellation.  I understand, from their representative,  that writing  out at this 
stage was the easiest way to communicate with Lloyds.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ts frustration when  they got a letter suggesting  there had 
been a problem with their direct debit. I say this as far as they were concerned they had 
cancelled the policy and their direct  debit.
But the policy was due to auto renew around  the same time which is why Lloyds sent the 
letters it did. Many  people  find auto renewal very helpful  and we would expect businesses to 
give people  reasonable opportunity to renew  a policy, so consumers dont go uninsured. 
I do understand that this wasnt Mr and Mrs Ts intention, as they didnt want to renew  the 
policy. But Lloyds sent its letter  on the same date they sent the letter  of cancellation so, 
unfortunately, it wasnt aware of Mr and Mrs Ts intention at the time the letter  was sent. It 
had also sent a letter explaining the policy would auto renew about a month before.
So, although  I can understand the frustration caused, I dont think  Lloyds did anything  wrong 
in following its processes although  I agree it couldve worded its letters better.
Ref: DRN87472672Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has also raised  the point that Lloyds only sent its letter about 
cancellation to Mrs T solely. I do agree with him that this couldve had an effect and the letter 
shouldve been  addressed to both parties. But, fortunately,  it didnt have any affect so Im not 
asking Lloyds to do anything further. And I must highlight Im only able to look at the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint and cant tell Lloyds to change  its systems or 
working practices. 
So, although  I accept  that Lloyds couldve been clearer in its communications  with Mr and 
Mrs T, Im not asking  it to do anything further. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8747267