K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Phoenix Life Limited  mis-sold her pension, and has not administered  it 
with due care and attention.
background
Mrs T had a personal pension with Abbey  Life Assurance Company Limited,  now part of 
Phoenix Life Limited.
In April 2018 Abbey Life sent her a pre retirement information pack. And Mrs T responded to 
say:
She was disappointed that the value of her pension had reduced;
She wanted Abbey Life to provide her with a significantly higher commutation 
amount;
She asked for the current value of the former protected rights part of her pension,  as 
it wasnt mentioned in the information  pack she had received.  
Abbey Life treated Mrs Ts letter as a complaint and investigated her concerns.  It said,  in 
summary:
Mrs Ts personal  pension was made up of two benefits, Non Protected Rights  
(NPRC) and Former Protected Rights (FPRC). 
The Normal  Retirement Date (NRD)  for the NPRC  was deferred until 25 September 
2018, while the NRD for the FPRC benefits  was 25 September  2027 (which  is why a 
pre-retirement pack was not sent for the FPRC);  
The value for the commutation lump sum option  and uncrystallised  funds  pension  
lump sum (UFPLS) was the same  for both options  and could not be guaranteed  as it 
was unit linked and ultimately influenced by stock market conditions;
The main difference  between  the UFPLS and the commutation lump sum option  was 
a difference in tax treatment, and the fact that the commutation lump sum option was 
only applicable  to policies with a fund value below £10,000. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with the response  she had received, and brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Abbey Life had acted unfairly. He said:
Mrs T had taken  out her pension  with Abbey Life in September 1992.  She was 29 at 
the time,  earning  £12,000 per annum  and contributing £50 per month. In general, he 
didnt think it was poor advice to recommend  someone start saving for their 
retirement at age 29 in a tax efficient savings vehicle such  as a pension.  If it had not 
met Mrs Ts requirements, this might be down to a combination  of ceasing regular 
contributions and investment performance rather than the product itself;
Abbey  Life had explained  that there was a form of lifestyling applied to Mrs Ts 
pension from January 2015. Broadly, this meant that as a policyholder approaches 
retirement their pension will begin  to switch into less volatile assets.
Mrs Ts pension was mostly invested  in Abbeys International fund, with two smaller 
investments in the managed fund and the security  fund.  The managed funds and 
international funds  are largely equity based, whereas the security fund is made up of 
Ref: DRN86292422assets with a lower  volatility.  This meant that the performance of Mrs Ts pension 
was linked to the financial markets;
Mrs T was unhappy that her pension had not performed as well as the illustration she 
received in September 1994 had suggested. But the projected growth rates used  in 
the illustration were based on guidance  from the regulator  at the time, and were not 
guaranteed.
Mrs T does  not agree  with our investigators view, and has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T has raised  a number of issues. Ive carefully considered  everything  she has to say, but 
have concentrated  my decision  on those issues which I find to be central  to her complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, I am not persuaded that Abbey Life has treated Mrs T 
unfairly. I realise that this will come  as a disappointment  to Mrs T, so Ill explain why Ive 
reached this decision.
The crux of Mrs Ts complaint appears to be her dissatisfaction  with the current value of her 
pension fund. She says that the quotations  she received when she took out the plan, and in 
1994, indicated  that the pension would be worth more than has turned out to be the case. 
However, the growth rates  shown in the illustrations were based on guidance  from the 
regulator at the time. In any event, as the 1994  illustration  states,  the values shown were not 
guaranteed.
Unfortunately, the markets have not performed as well as was expected.  But I cannot 
reasonably hold Abbey Life responsible for this.
Mrs T also says that the personal pension was missold. But I agree with our investigator  
that, given her circumstances at the time, it was not unsuitable advice to recommend that 
she start saving for her retirement in a pension. 
Mrs T has asked a number of questions regarding UFPLS and commutation. As our 
investigator has explained, these are almost the same thing. Both involve taking  lump  sum 
payments from pension and there is very little difference between them for most types of 
pension schemes.
I appreciate that Mrs T is unhappy that Abbey  Life didnt changed the NRD for her FPRC 
benefits. But it has explained that it is unable  to do so as this is set at age 65, Mrs Ts state 
pension age. And, while Abbey Life may not be able to change it in the same  way it can 
change the NRD  for her NPRC, I note that it has also said that she is still able to take her 
FRPC at any date between the ages of 55 and 75.
Mrs T also says that she found the volume  of paperwork  she received from Abbey Life to be 
confusing. However,  it is important that Abbey Life makes its customers  aware of the options 
available to them at retirement. So Im not persuaded that it has done anything wrong by 
sending her relatively lengthy  letters.
Ref: DRN86292423my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8629242