K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about poor customer service under  her home  emergency  insurance policy  
underwritten by Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) when her central  heating  boiler  broke 
down.
background
Miss Ms policy covered  the boiler  and central  heating system at the house she lived in along 
with three  tenants.  On 12 December 2018  she notified a claim under  the policy because of a 
failure of hot water. She said sometimes it was tepid, but mostly it was cold.  Amtrusts agent  
rang her to arrange  an appointment for its engineer to call.
The agent  offered her two dates before Christmas, but these werent  suitable  for Miss M 
because of her work. So she said she would call the agent after Christmas.
Miss M called the agent again on 22 December  2018 to try to fix an appointment. The agent 
said that for some reason  her claim had been  closed. So Miss M needed to call Amtrust 
again to reopen  it. Miss M did so and then spoke again to the agent.
It arranged an appointment for 24 December 2018  between 12.00 noon  and 5.00pm. Miss M 
said she would have  to leave the house for work at 3.00 pm. The agent  said she would note 
this on the appointment but couldnt  say when the engineer would be able to arrive. In fact 
the engineer didnt  arrive before Miss M had to leave.
Miss M rang the agent later that day and rebooked for 28 December 2018. She rang back 
again on 27 December  2018, as 28 December  was no longer convenient. An appointment 
was fixed for the morning  of 4 January 2019. The engineer didnt come then and the 
appointment was rearranged for the afternoon of 4 January.
The engineer arrived and said the plate  heat exchanger was blocked and would need to be 
replaced, or at least cleaned. This wasnt covered under the policy.  Miss M agreed  to have 
the heat exchanged cleaned and paid £85 for this to be done.
The engineer returned on 15 January 2019 and carried out the work. However he found that 
O ring seals needed  to be replaced,  and a condenser pipe which was broken needed to be 
replaced. The parts needed to be ordered.  The boiler had to be shut down, so Miss M was 
now without both heating  and hot water. 
Miss M had to chase  the agent to ensure the parts were ordered and another appointment 
made. She found  that her insurance policy had been  cancelled in error.  So she had to set it 
up again. The engineer returned on 18 January  2019 and completed  the repair.  He tested 
the boiler and system and said all was now OK.
After the engineer left, Miss M said she had no cause to touch the boiler for the rest of the 
day. In the evening she noticed that one of the bedroom radiators was leaking.  After all the 
delays she had had with Amtrust and its agent Miss M had lost confidence in the agent and 
its engineers. So she called an independent plumber.
The plumbers job card said:
Ref: DRN80606602Customer  had leak on radiator valve where  nut has been over tightened on the live side the 
valve is old and the connections to the rad are rusty  also the boiler  filling loop was left open 
and boiler was at 2.4 bar of pressure  so I turned off dropped the pressure to 1.4 bar and 
tightened up the nut that was leaking. Leak has stopped but recommend having the radiator 
and valves changed  asked customer to turn heating on the rad is getting  hot at the top which 
means there  probably is a sludge  build  up at the bottom. Also filling loop was leaking when 
opened and only has one shut off valve.
The plumber charged Miss M £126  for the call out. He recommended replacing  the radiator 
and checking  the boiler  for further  leaks. Miss M agreed, so he returned and replaced the 
radiator. He installed a new filling loop on the boiler  with two isolation valves.  He tightened 
the compression elbow in the boiler  due to a small leak and refilled  the boiler. He charged 
Miss M a further £771.25 for this work.
Miss M complained to Amtrust  about its service. Amtrust didnt  accept that its engineer had 
left the system in an unsafe condition, or caused  the radiator leak.  And it hadnt been  given 
the opportunity  to rectify  the leak. So it rejected the complaint.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She said:
some  of the delay  between Miss M reporting  the lack of hot water on 12 December 
2018 and the repair being completed on 18 January 2019 was down to Miss M not 
being available for appointments that were offered.
However the engineer put back the appointment on 4 January 2019 till the afternoon, 
and the investigator  thought he should  have  anticipated that the O rings  would need 
to be replaced and have ordered them sooner.
She also noted Miss Ms claim had been closed and later on her policy was 
cancelled.
She recommended that Amtrust pay Miss M £100  as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  its poor service  had caused  her;
the independent plumber reported  that the boiler filling  loop had been left open 
causing a rise in pressure and the radiator to leak. Amtrust  disputed that its engineer  
caused this problem, and said Miss M hadnt given it the opportunity to investigate  it. 
The investigator thought it was understandable  that because of the problems she had 
encountered Miss M had lost trust in the policy.
The investigator couldnt say how the loop came to be left open. But on balance  she 
thought it was fair that Amtrust met the cost of sorting out the immediate problem. So 
she thought Amtrust should reimburse  the £126  Miss M had paid the plumber, plus 
interest from the date she paid the plumber until settlement.
She thought  the other work the plumber carried out arose from the plumbers 
recommendation and it was Miss Ms choice to proceed with this. So she didnt 
recommend that Amtrust reimburse  the cost of this.
Miss M thought Amtrust should  reimburse  her for income she had lost in having to be 
present for the engineers visits. The investigator  said there would  always  be some 
inconvenience as part of a claim. While  she understood that Miss M would want to be 
present at each  appointment,  rather than arrange for someone else to be present, 
she couldnt reasonably ask Amtrust to pay for this;
Miss M had refunded one months  rent to each of her three tenants because  they 
were without  hot water  for more than a month. Miss M thought Amtrust should 
Ref: DRN80606603reimburse this to her. However  it didnt seem that Miss M had told Amtrust she had 
tenants in the property,  and the policy wasnt a specific landlords policy.  So the 
investigator didnt  think  Amtrust was responsible  for loss of rental  income under the 
policy.
Miss M accepted the investigators recommendation. 
Amtrust responded  to say, in summary,  that:
it agreed to pay Miss M the £100  compensation the investigator  had recommended; 
its engineer didnt accept that he had left the filling loop open. If he had water would 
have discharged from the pressure relief value and would have been noticeable 
almost immediately. After he had completed the work he had checked over the boiler 
for leaks, system  pressure  and cleanliness. This was something he always did and 
nothing was noted;
Amtrust wouldnt  have carried out the further work under the policy  to replace the 
radiator as it was caused by corrosion  which wasnt covered by the policy;  and
the policy was clear that it didnt cover repairs undertaken by a third party and not 
instructed by us.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  the investigator explained  I dont think Amtrust and its agent provided the 
standard of service  in respect of Miss Ms claim that she was entitled to expect. I agree that 
Amtrust should pay her compensation  of £100 for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused her.
I accept that the policy doesnt provide for reimbursement  of repair  costs  that a third party 
not instructed  by Amtrust  has carried out. However I think the issue  here is whether the work 
carried out by Amtrust  on 18 January 2019 was such that a radiator leak occurred  later that 
evening.
Miss M says she didnt touch the boiler  after Amtrusts  engineer left. The plumber she called 
is from and an independent and well established firm, and has described what he says he 
found. On the other hand Amtrusts engineer disputes that the described circumstances 
could have occurred,  given how he left the boiler.
On balance, I prefer the evidence of the independent plumbers report. I think  its likely  that 
the condition in which Amtrusts engineer  left the boiler earlier  that day contributed to the 
radiator leak. Given the difficulties Miss M had encountered for the past month in trying to 
get her boiler  attended to by Amtrust and its agent,  I think she acted  reasonably in deciding  
to call in the independent  plumber rather than calling on Amtrust under her policy.
So I think its fair and reasonable that Amtrust should reimburse to Miss M the £126 she paid 
the plumber for the first visit, plus interest  from the date she paid this bill until settlement.
Ref: DRN80606604my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order Amtrust Europe Limited:
1.to pay Miss M compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience  its poor 
customer service  caused her; and
2.to reimburse Miss M the £126  she paid the independent plumber  for his first visit, 
plus interest on this amount at the yearly  rate of 8% simple from the date she paid 
this bill until settlement.(1)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
(1)If Amtrust  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  and Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss M how much  its taken  off. It should 
also give Miss M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  and Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8060660