K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complains that, having given up Fixed  Protection (FP) on the advice of his previous 
adviser, Attivo Financial Services Limited  (Attivo) didnt advise him in time to obtain  
Individual Protection  2014 (IP 2014). 
background
In 2014 Mr R was advised  by his previous financial  adviser  to obtain FP as his pension 
benefits were in the region of £1.5 million. At the end of 2014 the same adviser advised Mr R 
to give up FP and join his new employers pension scheme. The adviser said that making 
contributions into a pension would be beneficial  to Mr R, despite any potential  LTA (lifetime 
allowance) taxation issues. And, in any case,  Mr R had until April 2017 to apply for IP 2014.  
In October  2016 the adviser retired and sold his business to Attivo.  Mr R wanted to arrange  
a meeting with the adviser before he retired but this wasnt possible.
Attivo wrote to Mr R (and his wife) on 18 October 2016 welcoming them as clients. The letter 
said that Attivo specialised in pensions, investments, protection  and other aspects of  
financial advice and investment management.  A member of Attivos client engagement team 
would be in touch  to arrange  an introductory meeting to answer  any queries about Attivo and 
to ensure that it held accurate and up to date information. Thered be no fee for the meeting. 
Attivo stressed the importance  of the meeting, even if Mr R didnt feel the need for any 
financial advice at present. If Mr R wished Attivo would then arrange for him to meet a 
financial planner to review his plans. 
The letter also said that Mr R had been  paying an ongoing adviser charge directly from his 
investments. Attivo would honour  the existing level of service  for the same cost. Mr R would 
need to sign a letter of authority which would be explained at the initial meeting. Where the 
previous adviser  received commission income, paid directly by the product  provider,  Attivo 
would now receive  that. 
Ive seen that Attivo made several attempts to arrange a meeting. Attivo  left voicemails in 
October 2016 before emailing Mr R on 3 November 2016. The email referred to the welcome 
letter and said that Attivo had been  trying  to contact Mr R to arrange an introductory meeting 
to answer any questions and to ensure  that Attivo held accurate  and up to date information 
about Mr Rs financial arrangements. 
Mr R emailed Attivo on 4 November 2016. He said he was sorry hed been difficult to track 
down and asked  for some  potential dates. Attivo responded the same day suggesting  two 
dates in December  2016. Attivo emailed again on 10 November 2016 asking if Mr R had 
been able to look at the dates suggested. It seems  Mr R didnt get back  to Attivo. It emailed 
him again on 13 December 2016  enquiring  if there was a date in January that would be 
convenient to meet. Attivo chased  that up in January 2017 before  a date of 20 February  
2017 was finally confirmed.   
At that meeting Mr R signed letters of authority which  allowed Attivo to seek  information on 
his investments. Attivo received the information it had requested on 20 April 2017. It 
contacted Mr R on 26 April 2017  to arrange  a meeting. Mr R asked to meet  in July and a 
meeting was arranged for 5 July 2017. At that meeting Attivos adviser  identified  the issue 
with the LTA. But by then the deadline to apply for IP 2014  had passed.
Ref: DRN84036302Mr R complained to his previous adviser and to Attivo. The previous adviser settled the 
complaint against  it (failing to provide advice on IP 2014 after the cancellation  of FP and not 
telling Attivo that Mr R required urgent attention).   
Attivo didnt uphold  Mr Rs complaint. In its final response letter  Attivo said it hadnt  been told 
by the previous adviser there was any urgency. Attivo had gone to considerable lengths to 
engage with Mr R from October 2016.  He didnt formally become a client  until the meeting on 
20 February 2017. There was only 32 working days between then and 5 April 2017,  the cut 
off date for applying for IP 2014.  Even if Attivo had been aware of the LTA issue  on 20 
February 2017, due to the lead time in obtaining information for numerous plans, including 
values as at 6 April 2014, there wouldnt have been  sufficient time to process  the application. 
Mr R didnt agree. He wrote to Attivo on 29 September 2017 making several  points. Attivo 
replied on 9 October 2017.  But its view remained that the complaint didnt succeed.
Mr R referred  his complaint to us. Our adjudicator  didnt think we could consider it. But, for 
the reasons I set out in my provisional  and jurisdiction decisions (dated 11 September 2018 
and 21 January 2019), I said we could consider the complaint. It was referred  back to the 
adjudicator to consider the merits.  
The adjudicator issued his view on 1 February 2019.  He didnt uphold the complaint. He 
referred to Attivos welcome  letter which stressed the importance of a meeting. He pointed  
out that Mr Rs previous  adviser had told him the deadline for applying  for IP 2014 was April 
2017. Attivo had attempted to contact Mr R between October 2016 and January 2017  to 
arrange an initial meeting but Mr R didnt  agree to meet until February 2017. If Mr R had 
signed the letter of authority sooner Attivo might have identified the LTA issue earlier  and it 
might have been possible to apply before the April 2017 deadline. The adjudicator didnt 
think it was reasonable  for Attivo to start reviewing Mr Rs financial situation (and when 
Attivo hadnt  been told there  was any urgency) until hed formally  agreed to become a client.  
Mr R didnt accept the adjudicators view.  Mr R agreed his previous adviser had made him 
aware of the deadline for applying for IP 2014 in an email dated 6 July 2015. But that had 
been a few years earlier. Neither Attivo nor his previous adviser had made  him aware of the 
imminent IP 2014 deadline in April 2017.  And he hadnt appreciated the urgency. 
His previous adviser  had accepted that it hadnt  highlighted  to Attivo  the urgency of his 
situation. Mr R had settled  with his previous adviser for part of the loss he incurred. But 
Attivo hadnt  accepted any responsibility. It blamed  everyone  else - the previous adviser  for 
not highlighting Mr Rs situation and Mr R for not booking a meeting sooner.
Mr R described  Attivos  attitude  during  the handover period as cavalier.  He said its internal 
processes were poor.  When the business  was sold to Attivo  no effective handover  took 
place. Mr Rs account wasnt  prioritised  as it should have been. As a result he suffered a 
significant financial loss. Both his previous advisers  and Attivo were to blame.  Attivo had let 
him down:
Attivo hadnt been proactive by making enquiries  about  him and his wife despite their 
very substantial assets.
In November 2016 Attivo set themselves up as Mr Rs platform  adviser  and started 
taking adviser fees (about £6k pa) which  the welcome letter promised would provide 
Mr R with an ongoing existing level of service.
Ref: DRN84036303Information about all of Mr Rs assets,  including his pension,  was available to Attivo  
on the platform, either directly  or noted  in the asset register.  It was clear  his pension 
was over £1.5 million. But despite having access, Attivo  didnt deploy an adviser or 
para planner to look at Mr Rs details.  Given the upcoming deadline, had Attivo  
undertaken five minutes of due diligence  on a new customer, his case  could have 
been prioritised  accordingly. The only action Attivo took was for a junior  employee  to 
call him to try to set up a face to face meeting at a busy  time of year and with no 
indication it was urgent. 
The meeting  on 20 February 2017  was also with a junior employee who didnt identify 
or ask about  any issues. It wasnt until July 2017  that Mr R met with a senior  adviser 
who had by then identified the problem.  Mr R had already paid Attivo nearly  £4,500 in 
fees. Yet that was the first time anyone had considered his situation  and what advice 
he should be given.  The fees that hed paid to Attivo were for exactly  that kind of 
advice  the same sort of advice hed received  from his previous adviser on all 
aspects of his finances, especially his pension.  Switching the platform  fees seems to 
be the only aspect  of the handover that took place successfully.  
Specifically about  the adjudicators view Mr R said:  
The adjudicators  findings hinged on him not having formally become Attivos  client  
until 20 February 2017. But he became Attivos client before then. It had replaced his 
previous adviser  on the platform and taken fees from about 4 November 2016 until 
10 November 2017. He was Attivos customer from 4 November 2017 and so entitled  
to the ongoing service  promised in the welcome letter. Attivo  was being  paid as his 
financial adviser to look after his investments. 
Attivo should have  accessed his investments via the platform to see if any urgent 
advice was needed. Instead  he received a couple  of phone calls with the emphasis 
on him to be proactive.  Attivo  had taken no action,  putting  the onus on the previous  
adviser and Mr R to provide the details required.  
If hed met with a financial adviser  on 20 February 2017,  or someone whod asked 
some basic  questions  about his financial situation, the issue  would have been  quickly  
identified. Attivo should have aimed to have got more information from that meeting: 
Attivo didnt seek any information  from Mr Rs previous  adviser; Mr R was an existing 
customer of Attivo; he was already paying  fees;  he had significant assets; and he 
was busy so it was difficult to get face to face time. 
There was sufficient  time (32 working days) to apply  for IP 2014. Attivo wrote to him 
on 21 February 2017 to confirm it had commenced its review of Mr Rs policies. If 
Attivo had looked at the platform or Mr Rs previous advisers file, Attivo would have 
easily seen there  was an issue. Applying for IP 2014  doesnt  take long and the 
information was there.  
In conclusion Mr R said Attivo blamed everyone but itself for the failure. When  Attivo 
acquired the previous adviser, Attivo did no due diligence on the new clients but took fees 
from them. Attivo was being  paid to provide an ongoing service  but didnt. Its processes are 
too slow and inappropriate  for a client such as Mr R. Hed paid for, been promised and was 
entitled to expect, continuity of advice. Instead  hed had a very disrupted service at a crucial 
time and had suffered financial loss as a result. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN84036304Ive paid particular  attention to what Mr R has said in response to the adjudicators view. Its 
clear he considers Attivo could and should  have done more. I can see that, if Attivo  had 
been more proactive, the issue about the LTA might  have  been identified earlier and in time 
for Mr R to have applied for IP 2014 before the 5 April 2017  deadline.  
But whether  Attivo could have done more (or done things differently) isnt the question.  What  
I have to consider  is whether Attivo should have done more.  
On balance, and despite the points Mr R has made,  I cant  say Attivo was obliged  to do more  
than it did. I agree with the adjudicator, and for similar reasons, that Mr Rs complaint  against 
Attivo cant  be upheld. I dont expect  Mr R to agree.  But Ill explain why Ive come to that 
view. 
What happened  (or didnt happen) isnt in dispute. Mr R had had secured FP on the advice 
and with the assistance of his previous adviser. The decision to give up FP was made on 
that advisers advice.  Replacing FP with IP 2014  was also discussed.  As was the April 2017 
deadline. The adviser and Mr R knew what needed  to happen and by when. But the 
application hadnt been made by the time the business was transferred to Attivo. And the 
matter wasnt flagged  up to Attivo. 
Against that background I think  the issue was essentially between Mr R and his previous 
adviser. And Mr Rs previous adviser accepted it was at fault and reached a settlement with 
Mr R. But Mr R says it covers only part of his financial loss. Hes looking to Attivo to make up 
the balance. As Ive indicated, I could only say Attivo should  be responsible for some or all of 
Mr Rs unrecovered losses if I was satisfied  that Attivo  should  have done more. But I dont 
think thats the case.
I can see why Mr R argues he became Attivos client  before the meeting on 20 February  
2017. But I agree with what the adjudicator said about Mr R needing to formally confirm that 
Attivo was his financial adviser. I dont think the fact that Attivo had replaced Mr Rs previous 
adviser on the platform and was being paid is conclusive. Mr R knew  from the welcome letter  
what was happening about the adviser charges and commission income. And that Attivos 
remuneration would be explained in more detail at the introductory meeting. If Mr R wasnt 
happy with that he could  have contacted  Attivo or the platform provider at that stage.
Mr R argues that if Attivo was getting  the ongoing adviser charge then he was entitled to 
ongoing continuity of advice, including  about the LTA. I suspect that what Attivo was getting, 
initially at least,  was the commission  income from the product provider. That didnt come out 
of Mr Rs investments but was paid by the product  provider direct. If Mr R had told the 
provider he didnt want Attivo to get the payment,  the provider wouldnt have paid it direct to 
Mr R instead. I dont  think the ongoing adviser  charge  which  was paid out of Mr Rs 
investments  would  have  been  paid to Attivo until Mr R signed  the letter of authority (which  
he did at the meeting on 20 February 2017). 
But, in any event, I dont  think  the fee issue is conclusive. I agree with the adjudicator that it 
wasnt reasonable to expect  Attivo  to start reviewing  Mr Rs finances,  including his pension  
arrangements, unless and until hed formally confirmed to Attivo that he agreed to become 
its client. On that basis I dont agree that Attivo should have undertaken a review or carried  
out any other work immediately. 
Ref: DRN84036305Mr R points out that Attivo had access to the platform showing his investments and a cursory  
review would have  shown that his pension fund was over £1.5 million  meaning the LTA 
could be an issue. But if, as Ive said, Attivo  wasnt required  to review Mr Rs position, even 
on a perfunctory  basis, Attivo  wouldnt have identified  any issue.  
And I dont  think it would have been apparent from the platform whether Mr R had protection. 
I think Attivo would have  needed to access Mr Rs previous advisers file to see that Mr Rs 
FP was no longer in place  (hed resumed making  pension contributions via his new 
employers pension scheme) and that an application for IP 2014 was outstanding. So I dont 
think any review would have been  as limited  as Mr R suggests. 
Mr R says Attivo failed to prioritise  his case.  But Attivo wasnt  told by Mr Rs previous adviser  
that there  was any outstanding issue or urgency. And it seems that Mr R unfortunately 
overlooked the matter  too. He accepts  hed been told about  the deadline by his previous 
adviser. But some two years later he didnt recall and didnt realise there was any urgency.  
As Attivo didnt review Mr Rs position (and didnt have to) the issue didnt come to light until 
sometime after the meeting on 20 February  2017. 
I note what Mr R says about there  still being  time between then and the 5 April 2017 
deadline. But Attivos  review  (by a financial adviser) didnt commence until all the up to date 
information was to hand. That wasnt until later in April 2017 by which time the deadline had 
passed. 
Mr Rs pointed to Attivos letter of 21 February 2017  which confirmed Attivos  review  had 
commenced. But I dont  think much turns on that letter. I think  it was a fairly standard  letter  
sent after the introductory meeting. I dont  think it shows a review (by someone qualified)  
had started and which should  have  alerted Attivo  to a possible LTA issue. So Im not going 
to agree with Mr R that there would have  been time in any event. I dont think that would be 
fair when,  by the time the meeting was set up, several months had already elapsed. 
Mr R is critical of how Attivo dealt with the handover. I wouldnt describe Attivos attitude  as 
Mr R has done. Attivo seems to have made considerable efforts to contact Mr R to arrange a 
meeting. And Attivo did have a process in place. It sent a relatively detailed welcome letter 
which stressed the importance of arranging a (free) introductory meeting even if Mr R didnt 
think he needed any immediate financial  advice.  It also explained  that the initial  meeting  
would be for information  gathering purposes  and a follow  up meeting with a financial adviser 
could be arranged. Attivo seems to have adhered to that process.   
Attivo could have  done things differently  for example made sure that the meeting was with 
a financial adviser.  But I dont think it would be fair to say thats what  Attivo  should have 
done and when, had the meeting taken place earlier, there may well have been sufficient 
time to get IP 2014 sorted out. I note Mr Rs comments about the process not working  for 
him. Its unfortunate  that his other  commitments  meant that finding time for a face to face 
meeting was difficult. And, as he didnt  think there  was any urgency, he didnt feel compelled 
to find the time. But I dont  think Attivo  can be blamed  for that.  
All in all, and on balance,  I dont think,  in the particular circumstances of this case, it would 
be fair to say that Attivo should share the blame and that it should meet any losses  which  
arent covered by the settlement Mr R reached with his previous adviser.  
Ref: DRN84036306my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint and Im not making any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8403630