K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that when she called on British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) under her 
home emergency insurance policy it failed to correctly identify the source of a water  leak,  
with the result that her property has suffered damage.
background
Mrs G had a home emergency policy with BGI which covered,  amongst other  things, repairs  
to plumbing and drains. In December 2017,  Mrs G called on BGI as there was water  coming  
through the ceiling of her downstairs toilet from the bathroom above.  BGIs engineer  said he 
thought it was coming from her shower,  and she should reseal the shower.
Mrs G says she resealed the shower, but the leak continued. She resealed the shower  
several times but the leak got worse and the ceiling below turned black.  She says she asked  
BGIs engineers several times to cut a hole in the ceiling to find out where the leak was 
coming from, but they were reluctant to do so.
Eventually, in June  2018, a BGI engineer did cut a hole and found the leak was coming from 
the toilet cistern upstairs. BGI repaired this, but Mrs G was left with damage  to the wooden 
floor and tiles upstairs, damage to the downstairs floor, ceiling and electrics and, she 
suspected, damage  to the ceiling joists.  She thought BGI should be responsible for repairing 
all this damage.
BGI said when it was first called out, the water leak would already have caused some 
damage. It wasnt responsible for this, and Mrs G would  always have to have repaired this. It 
admitted that it had failed to locate the leak on the initial visit. It said its engineer would, 
under the terms  of the policy, make good the hole it had cut in the ceiling to gain access.
As it wasnt responsible  for all the damage  caused by the leak, it said Mrs G should claim 
under her household insurance policy. Her insurer could then ask BGI for a contribution if it 
felt BGI had any liability.
Mrs G didnt want to claim  on her household  insurance policy  as she felt BGI was 
responsible for all the damage she had suffered. So she complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said BGIs 
records showed that it was first called about the leak in December 2017.  The leak was 
misdiagnosed as a leaking shower  tray and Mrs G was advised to reseal this. 
According to its records,  BGI engineers visited on other issues after that but Mrs G didnt call 
it out again about the leak until five months later. The investigator said that she would have 
expected Mrs G to call BGI about the leak much sooner if the repair  BGI suggested hadnt 
worked. But BGI wasnt given the opportunity to fix the leak again until the end of May 2018. 
By this time thered  been significant  damage.
If Mrs G had gone back to BGI about the leak sooner,  the damage wouldnt have been  so 
significant. So it wouldnt be fair to hold BGI responsible for the damage  that took place 
when it wasnt aware of a problem.
Mrs G didnt accept the investigators  recommendation. She said she had followed the 
advice the engineer gave  her on the first visit and kept trying to reseal the shower. She also 
Ref: DRN86373452kept redecorating the downstairs ceiling, but it took some time for the leak to come through 
again. So BGI was at fault for misdiagnosing  the leak.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G contacted BGI in December 2017 about a water leak coming through  the ceiling of her 
downstairs toilet from the bathroom above. Its clear  from the file that access to the source  of 
the leak was difficult  a hole had eventually to be cut in the ceiling. BGIs  engineer thought 
the problem, was a leaking shower tray and advised  Mrs G to reseal this.
Mrs G followed  this advice for several months,  but the leak got worse.  It wasnt  until the end 
of May that she called BGI out again to deal with the leak. This time BGIs records  show the 
engineer found  two leaks. One was coming  from where the shower screen  met the wall and 
shower tray. The other was from the toilet  cistern overflow pipe.
Like the investigator, I think Mrs G persevered  too long trying to stop the leak by resealing 
the shower when  this clearly wasnt working.  I think she should  have  contacted BGI about  
the continuing leak much  sooner after the initial  visit.
Some damage is likely to have occurred already at the time of the initial  visit. And I think  
further damage occurred  during 2018 before  Mrs G called BGI back  to deal with the leak at 
the end of May 2018. So I cant reasonably say that BGI is responsible for repairing the 
damage that is now present.
Under the policy terms BGI agrees to provide cover of up to £1,000 for getting access and 
making good, which is defined as:
getting to your boiler, appliance  or system, to fix or service  it and then repairing any damage 
we may cause in getting access to your boiler, appliance or system by replacing items such 
as cabinets or cupboards that weve removed and by filling  in holes we have made and 
leaving a level surface  but we wont replace or restore the original surface or coverings, for 
example, tiles, floor coverings, decoration, grass or plants.
BGI has agreed to repair the ceiling hole its engineer made to obtain access to the leak. 
However this wont cover  redecoration.  Mrs G also says some  tiles were damaged in the 
bathroom in the course  of repairing the leak.  BGI should make  good any hole it made and 
leave a level surface. However it isnt required to replace any tiles that were damaged.
It appears that Mrs G has household insurance  which would cover the damage that has 
occurred. I leave it to her to decide whether she now wishes to claim on it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Ref: DRN86373453Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8637345