K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Payzone UK Limited did not tell her that she would not be able to 
cancel the agreement with her business before it was extended.
background
Mrs L entered into a 12 month card terminal hire agreement with Payzone  which  started on 3 
July 2017. She says she spoke to Payzone on 25 May 2018 about  the terms of that 
agreement. She wrote  to it on 11 June 2018 saying she wanted to cancel it. But Payzone 
said that she had not given the required two months notice before the end of the term and 
that the agreement had been extended for another year to 3 July 2019. Mrs L is unhappy 
that it did not tell her this would happen  when she called.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-The records from Payzone show that a call took place on 23 May 2018. She had 
listened to the call. The representative from Payzone  offered Mrs L improved  terms. 
The call ended  with Mrs L saying she wanted to think about it.
-The next record of contact was on 11 June 2018  when  Mrs L sent an email saying 
she wanted to end the contract  with immediate  effect and had given the required 30 
days notice.
-Payzone told her she could not do this until 3 July 2019 without paying a termination  
fee of £754.46.  Mrs L complained as she wanted  to exit the agreement without 
charge and had entered into a new agreement with a different business.
-Mrs L had not provided notice  two months before  the end of the minimum period of 
the agreement  as she was required to do if the contract was not to be extended for 
another 12 months.
-Her first call was less than two months before that end of the minimum period and 
she did not provide  written notice until 11 June 2018. The contract  will not be 
terminated unless  she pays  a fee which at the date of the opinion on 30 October 
2018 was £665.40.
Mrs L did not agree. She said that Payzone  had failed  to tell her the information  about the 
expiry of the contract. It had a duty to do so. She runs a small independent business and 
acted on what it said. She had signed  an agreement  with a different business. She has 
received an invoice from the previous  business  that provides  payment processing  services 
which she is not happy about.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the card terminal hire agreement Mrs L accepted. This says that the 
agreement will be extended for further  12 month periods unless the required notice is 
provided. Condition  2.4 states that this must  be given at least  two months before the end of 
the minimum period  or extended period of hire. And that if it isnt the notice will not take 
effect until the end of an extension period of 12 months.
Ive listened to the call Mrs L had with Payzone. She started by talking about giving notice. 
But then she had a discussion with the representative about the improved terms it could offer 
Ref: DRN81809532her. She did not give notice then. And it is right that the representative did not say that if she 
had the conditions above would apply. His focus was on retaining her business.
I agree  that Mrs L would have needed  to have given notice  by 3 May 2018  to prevent the 
hire agreement being extended. She did not do so. As a result the notice she gave on 11 
June 2018 applied to the end of the extension period.
Payzone set out the fee that would apply if she instead wanted  to terminate the agreement 
early. And I can see from the agreement  that this also includes a non use charge relating to 
the card acceptance  agreement  with the other business shes referred to. Mrs L does not 
accept that fee as reasonable  so neither of the agreements  has been terminated.  That would 
explain the response from that other  business  about her charges for processing.
Im afraid I dont think Payzone made a mistake in extending the agreement and in saying it 
requires a termination payment to end it early.  Mrs L did not decide  to give notice  at the time 
she made the call. Had she done  so this issue would have come to light earlier. But in any 
event by then it was too late to give notice under the agreement  and prevent it being 
extended. I dont  think Payzone  is fairly  responsible for the consequences  of that and in 
particular of Mrs L signing an agreement  with a different business.
It is a matter for Mrs L to decide whether to terminate the agreement based on the most  up 
to date figures available at the time. In the meantime the ongoing monthly charges will 
remain due.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8180953