K820x#14Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs H says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2000.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs H owed on her store  card. The policy would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs H couldnt work because  
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain my reasoning  below: 
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs H that the policy  was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Hs signed  credit agreement. 
On it there is a section  related to PPI where Mrs H has signed to say she wanted  the policy.
Mrs H says she was just told where  to sign and PPI was never mentioned.  She says the 
form was not completed by her. And that it is someone elses  handwriting that completed the 
various sections  such as the address. Its not unusual for a sales  assistant to have 
completed the form on a customers  behalf.  But I note that Mrs H has signed the form herself 
and as this is a legally binding credit agreement, I think its likely she wouldve reviewed the 
form before  signing.  
Theres nothing on the form to suggest the PPI was compulsory, so if Mrs H hadnt wanted  
the policy I think she wouldve known  she couldve  left the PPI section blank. So on balance I 
think its likely that FICL  would have asked Mrs H for her agreement  to add the policy  to her 
account and she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to. Although its understandable 
that she no longer  remembers  this. 
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs H and I think  thats likely to be right.  So it 
didnt have to check if the policy was right for her.  But FICL did need  to make sure it gave 
Mrs H clear enough information about  the policy to enable her to decide for herself  if she 
should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs H 
Ref: DRN81432202was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or an existing  medical condition.
Mrs H has told us that she wouldve received some  sick pay from her employer  if she was 
too ill to work. She also said she had a redundancy package and couldve relied on her 
family to help make her repayments.  But the PPI would have paid out on top of her sick pay 
and until she was able to return to work, or until the outstanding balance  was cleared  
whichever came first. And the policy would cover  the same term if she was to lose her job. 
And having the policy meant she wouldnt have to rely on her family whose ability  to help 
would depend  on their own circumstances at any given time. So I think  she wouldve  found 
the policy useful.  Overall, when taking into account everything Ive seen and been  told, I 
dont think Mrs H has lost out as a result  of anything FICL may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8143220