K821x#15complaint
Mr L and Miss G are unhappy that Legal & General Insurance Limited have declined  their 
home insurance claim. 
background
Mr L and Miss G renewed their home  insurance policy with Legal & General Insurance 
Limited (L&G) in January  2018. This policy included  the additional cover  option for personal 
possessions in and away from the home. And Mr L and Miss G had selected to cover Item 
3: Pedal Cycles.  
This optional  cover  had been added previously and was automatically included in the 
renewal. Mr L and Miss Gs 2017 policy schedule specifically listed  an expensive pedal  
cycle, costing £2,000, as being covered. And this was again listed  on the 2018 renewal 
(though the cost had been automatically increased to £2,080). This amount is listed on the 
policy schedule in the column for the Sum Insured. 
Some time after the renewal, Mr L and Miss G bought a new pedal  cycle costing £575. They 
did not inform  L&G of this. 
Then, in August 2018, Mr L and Miss G contacted L&G to claim for the loss of this new pedal 
cycle. L&G declined the claim.  It said that Mr L and Miss G hadnt selected  the unspecified 
pedal cycle cover when the policy was taken out and that the only pedal cycle  that was 
covered was the expensive cycle above. 
Mr L disputed this outcome and complained.  In doing so he actually referred  to the 2017 
policy documents. But his argument was that he felt he should be covered  at least up to 
£500. He also felt that his claim and appeal hadnt been handled well, and asked L&G to 
compensate him for this and to meet his claim. 
L&G didnt change  its stance, and Mr L and Miss G brought their complaint to this service. 
Ultimately, our investigator felt that the complaint  should be upheld. She felt that the policy  
did only cover  the cycle specifically listed on the policy schedule. But that L&G hadnt given 
clear enough  information  to Mr L and Miss G that they needed to contact L&G to obtain 
cover for additional cycles, and that if it had done  so they wouldve specified this cycle  as 
well. 
So the investigator recommended L&G consider  the claim on the remaining terms and pay 
Mr L and Miss G £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused  to them.  L&G didnt 
agree so this matter  was referred  to me for a decision. 
Having considered the terms of this policy, I have written to L&G already to determine what  
exactly is being relied upon to decline this claim. I explained  that I couldnt  see any indication 
that the terms of the 2018 policy directly  limited cover to cycles specified in the schedule.  
And that the only limitation appeared to be in relation to the sum insured; that the policy  
would only provide cover up to this amount. 
I did note that in previous years, the policy limited  cover on pedal cycles to those  under  
£500, unless the cycle  was specified. But that this limitation no longer appeared in the 2018 
policy. 
Ref: DRN84446422I explained that I was minded to consider that Mr L and Miss G were covered for pedal 
cycles, that they had claimed for the loss of a pedal  cycle, and so their claim should be met 
subject to the remaining terms of the policy. As such, I was minded to uphold  their complaint, 
taking into account  the inconvenience  caused to them by L&Gs decision. I asked L&G 
whether it had any further comments  or evidence for me to consider. 
L&G responded saying that if Mr L and Miss G had any other cycle that was to be covered 
by the policy,  then it would have been  added to the Sum Insured  total. And as this hadnt 
happened in essence the policyholders were inadequately insured for this section of cover. 
L&G said that the policy schedule and working showed Mr L and Miss G only had cover  for 
the expensive  cycle. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It does appear that there have been  some changes in the cover provided in this policy  by the 
additional cover  option for personal possessions.  The policy  terms relevant to the 2017  
policy stated; We will cover loss or damage up to £500 per pedal cycle. We may insure 
cycles worth more than the limit if you provide us with the make,  model and frame number. 
For the 2017 policy, L&G had also said to Mr L and Miss G that they needed to provide 
details of any cycle  valued at more  than £500.  
However, there is no requirement in the 2018  policy or in the renewal documents  to provide 
details of the specific cycles being insured.
The policy states;  We will pay for: ... loss of or damage to your pedal cycles  and 
accessories on them  And; The maximum amount we will pay in respect of any one claim 
is:  The sum insured  recorded on your policy schedule (subject to inflation protection). The 
maximum amount we will pay for any one pedal  cycle (including its accessories) is the sum 
recorded on your policy  schedule.
In terms of Mr L and Miss Gs policy, this means that the maximum they could claim at any 
one time and the maximum  they could claim for any one cycle was the same. 
It is possible this wording  was intended  to mean that the one pedal cycle is limited  to any 
one cycle listed on the policy schedule. But if this is the intention,  I dont consider this to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. I consider a consumer  could easily  interpret this wording to 
mean that the maximum amount  covered  on any single cycle  (whether  listed or not) is the 
amount stated on the policy  schedule. And there doesnt appear to be any limitation on 
claiming for more than one lost cycle at the same  time, whether listed on the policy schedule 
or not. So, in my view, a customer could claim for two pedal  cycles, lost at the same  time, 
each costing £1,000, even though neither was listed on the schedule.
The policy schedule does include the wording Pedal cycle total and the amount  listed for 
this is the value of the expensive cycle listed on the schedule. It could be possible  to infer 
from this that there is a total amount of cover  that is made up of several cycles. But this 
doesnt fit with the wording of the actual  policy in relation to the sum insured. 
Ref: DRN84446423And, significantly in my view, the wording goes on to refer to this amount as including the 
cycles listed below. So again think there  is some  ambiguity here and I dont consider it would 
be fair to interpret this against Mr L and Miss G.
Additionally if there is a requirement for consumers to provide details of each separate  cycle, 
I think this would need to have been  made  particularly clear  and been  highlighted at the 
point of renewal.  This was a requirement  for the 2017 policy,  but it didnt happen at the point 
Mr L and Miss Gs policy renewed for 2018. 
At the point of renewal for the 2018 policy, policyholders such as Mr L and Miss G were 
asked to check the policy documents to make  sure the details provided were  correct. But 
there was no indication that details of individual cycles (whether more than £500 or not) 
should be provided to L&G. So I dont think there was an obligation on Mr L and Miss G to 
contact L&G about  their cycles.
Further, even if this requirement had existed at the point of renewal, Mr L and Miss G didnt 
own the cycle  that was later claimed for. So no declaration of this would have been possible 
at renewal. And there  is no requirement  in the policy to declare new cycles  when  purchased.
Ultimately, I consider that under  the policy wording Mr L and Miss G had cover for pedal  
cycles, that they could  claim  up to a maximum of £2,080 for the loss of any single cycle, and 
Ive seen nothing  that leads me to consider that they needed to provide details of each cycle 
to be covered in order to benefit from this. 
As such,  subject to the remaining terms of the policy, L&G should meet Mr L and Miss Gs 
claim. Unless there is another valid reason not to meet the claim, L&G should add interest  at 
8% simple  from the date of claim to the date of settlement. I also think  it should compensate 
Mr L and Miss G £50 for the trouble and upset caused to them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Legal & General Insurance Limited should 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8444642