K820x#14complaint
Miss F is unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited wont  pay her some of her contents 
insurance claim for theft following a burglary of her home.
background
In January 2018 Miss F suffered a break-in  at her home when a number of items were 
damaged and stolen. She made  a claim to CIS and reported the matter to the police. CIS 
sent a loss adjuster out to her home and she then handed over a list of items. When this list 
was compared  with the details given to the police, it contained a good deal more items. CIS 
reviewed the matter and said it would pay for the items on the police list and the items which  
she could provide proof of ownership for. Although she produced a number of bank 
statements CIS said this didnt provide adequate  proof of what  the items were. She wasnt  at 
the time able to provide  receipts, photos etc.
CIS paid out for the items on the police list but as Miss F wasnt able to substantiate  the 
other items it wouldnt  pay for those. Unfortunately Miss F suffered two further burglaries in 
the course of CISs handling of this claim. Those  claims  were  resolved. But CIS accepts  that  
this caused delays in it obtaining  police reports and assessing them, which  in turn delayed  it 
settling Miss Fs claim. Also the claim  suffered  delays because the case  wasnt  proactively 
managed. CIS sent Miss F a cheque for £200  by way of compensation for the upset caused 
by those delays.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that CIS had acted reasonably,  bearing in 
mind the evidence Miss F had been  able to send in.
Miss F didnt agree and sent us some further  evidence including photos  and receipts.  As 
these hadnt been seen  by CIS, it agreed to look at that evidence. But on the basis of the 
complaint as it was brought  to us our investigator  still said that he thought CIS had acted 
reasonably.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a claim  is made an insurer is entitled to ask for whatever information it reasonably 
thinks necessary in order to pay out for any loss. I understand that Miss F has had pay-outs 
on other claims and may not have been asked for so much information. But in this case CIS 
had significant  concerns  firstly that Miss F had only reported a very small proportion of her 
loss to the police and that she appeared to have  a great deal of items which werent  
compatible with her lifestyle.
Because of its concerns CIS decided it would only pay out for the items in the police list and 
items Miss F had been able to provide  proof of ownership of. Unfortunately  Miss F wasnt at 
the time able to provide  any more  proof  than bank statements which  may have shown 
money going out but didn't show the particular  items. I think  CIS acted  reasonably in asking 
for this evidence. With regard to the police report it is understandable that Miss F might not 
have assessed  everything shed lost at the time the police  visited. But CIS had concerns that 
the amount of items  shed  not reported  exceeded those on the police list by quite a lot.
Ref: DRN84437782So I think that CIS made a fair pay-out  of those items on the police list and not those items  
Miss F hadnt provided  sufficient proof of. 
So far as the delays  were concerned I think that CIS was slow in making a final pay-out 
which took the best part of a year. I know the matter  was complicated by the two further 
claims  for each claim a police report was obtained  which took around eight weeks  each 
time. There were also queries over Miss Fs evidence and whether to pay her in cash or 
replacements. Overall  I think for the delays caused  by CIS £200 compensation was 
reasonable. If Miss F hasnt cashed  the cheque and she wants  to accept it, she should 
approach CIS directly.
As for the further  evidence Miss F sent in to us, CIS agreed to review  it, which  is fair. in 
particular there are photos to review which it hasnt seen before. So far as Im aware it hasnt 
yet reviewed that evidence. When it has and if Miss F is still unhappy she could make a 
further complaint.
But in respect  of CISs handling of Miss Fs claim on the basis  of what  was presented to it 
during the claim, prior to Miss F complaining  to this service, I think  it has acted reasonably.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8443778