K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs H applied for a credit  card in a branch meeting in 1998. The PPI was added to her credit 
card at the same time. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs H disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs H says at no point  did Halifax explain to her that the policy was optional. I cant  be sure, 
after all this time, what was said. But Ive looked at the credit card application  form Mrs H 
signed at the time and it doesnt  support  what she says. 
The form included a box to be marked if Mrs H wanted PPI. The box was marked with a 
printed X. From experience of how Halifax sold PPI in its branches, I think  its likely that 
happened following  discussions  between the adviser and Mrs H about PPI. 
So I think Halifax probably made it clear to Mrs H that the PPI was optional and that she 
actively chose to go ahead with it knowing she didnt have  to. I can understand why she 
might not remember that now more  than 20 years later.
 
I think Halifax recommended the policy to Mrs H. That meant it had to look into whether the 
PPI was right for Mrs H in her circumstances. From what Halifax and Mrs H have said,  I think 
the policy was right for her because:
Mrs H was eligible  for the cover. And I dont think she was affected by the policys 
main restrictions or exclusions. 
Mrs H says she was entitled to generous sick pay from her public sector  employer 
and didnt have  any savings or other insurance to make her repayments if she wasnt 
working. The PPI benefits would have  paid out on top of that pay and for up to 12 
months per claim. It also covered her for unemployment. Overall, I think  the PPI 
provided her with worthwhile extra security. 
Theres nothing to suggest Mrs H couldnt  afford the PPI premiums.  And, as the PPI 
was paid for with a monthly premium,  if she no longer wanted  it she could have 
cancelled it at any time at no extra cost.
Ref: DRN85428052Halifax also had to make  sure it told Mrs H enough about the PPI to decide for herself if it 
was suitable. And it had to do this in a clear, fair and not misleading  way. I dont know for 
sure how much information Halifax gave Mrs H or how well it was explained. But, for the 
same reasons I think the PPI was right for her, I dont think  better information  would have 
made a difference to her decision  to take it out.
Taking everything into account,  I dont find that Mrs H has lost out because of how Halifax  
sold her PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2018.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8542805