K821x#15complaint
Mr Cs complaint against Fairstone Financial  Management  (City)  Limited (Fairstone)  is about
advice in 2000 to transfer the value of his deferred  benefits in a former employers defined  
benefit pension  scheme to a personal  pension.
Fairstone was formerly Equus Independent Financial Management Limited. Ive just referred 
to Fairstone below.  
background
Fairstone initially argued that we couldnt consider Mr Cs complaint as it hadnt been  made  
within the time limits set out in rules. I concluded (in my decision dated 17 February  2017  
and for the reasons I gave) that Mr C hadnt complained too late and we could consider the 
matter. 
Mr Cs complaint about the advice to transfer  his deferred benefits  was investigated by one 
of our adjudicators. He noted:
-Mr C had been a member of his former  employers scheme for seven years and had 
a deferred pension of approximately £4,400 a year. This was revalued in deferment.
-Apart from this deferred  pension he held other  personal (money  purchase) pension 
plans, a number  of low cost endowments and £7,000 in cash  deposits. 
-His attitude to risk was recorded as between three and four on a scale of one to five. 
-Mr C met with the adviser  in November 2000. A transfer analysis was carried out. It 
recorded that the personal pension would need  to grow by 7.7%  a year in order  to 
match the employers  scheme benefits being  given up.  
-The adviser recommended that Mr C transfer the value of his deferred  benefits 
(approximately £33,000) to a personal pension  with a view to maximising the value of 
Mr Cs pension benefits. 
The adjudicators view was that the complaint  should  be upheld. In summary he said:
 
-He referred to the discount rates that were published for the purposes of the 
industrywide pension  review. While the transfer  fell outside of the review,  they did 
give an indication as to what rates  of growth  might have  been considered  reasonable 
at the time. Based on the transfer  date and the term until retirement the rate was 
7.1%. The critical yield was above  that. So the opportunity to improve on the benefits 
from the employers  scheme was limited.
-The critical yield was the return needed  on the transfer value offered just to match 
the value of the former employers scheme  benefits. To improve  Mr Cs benefits it 
needed to be exceeded. 
-Mr Cs other pension  arrangements  were  investment linked. This was his only final 
salary based pension. It would have been appropriate to maintain the relatively 
secure income that it offered.  
-The adviser had said if Mr C didnt  believe the personal pension  would grow by 7.7% 
he shouldnt transfer. Or, if he was likely to retire  before age 65, as the growth 
required would be even  higher.  But Fairstone was advising Mr C and hed have 
looked to them  as his professional advisers  to give a suitable  recommendation. 
-The recommendation to transfer  wasnt in Mr Cs best interests.
Fairstone disagreed and made the following points: 
Ref: DRN81653772-The illustration showed,  based on the mid-rate of return  of 7% a year, the projected 
pension was slightly higher than the projected  employers scheme pension. This was 
lower than the critical yield, calculated at 7.7%.  Therefore the illustration suggested  a 
lower rate might be needed. 
-It accepted that where a guaranteed benefit was available it would be difficult  to 
envisage why a client would be advised  to transfer. But there were a few situations 
where it would  be appropriate to give that up. One such  situation is where  the 
individual does  not consider the guarantee to be of any meaningful value and as a 
consequence by giving up the guarantee, their personal and financial circumstances 
may benefit as a result.   This was the case here. The trustees  of the employers 
scheme had said the scheme was in deficit. At the time the transfer value paid 
represented the full cash equivalent of Mr Cs deferred benefits.   So it was 
reasonable to conclude  that the transfer may have been in Mr Cs best interests  the 
employers scheme  might not have been able to pay Mr C the promised benefits. 
-Mr C was a director  of his previous employer and may have known  more  details 
about that scheme. 
The complaint was referred  to me. I issued a provisional decision on 10 December 2018. 
Id taken into account Mr Cs personal and financial circumstances at the time of the 
advice. He was aged 41 so he had another 24 years to make further pension 
provision. His deferred benefits  represented  seven  years  service. He had some  
other (limited) pension provision, including a fund value of £64,695 in the employers 
Group Personal Pension Plan (GPPP) which had replaced  the defined  benefit 
scheme. And hed joined  his new employers final salary scheme. His attitude to risk 
was above medium  and he had some capacity  for risk. 
The transfer value  analysis showed  a critical yield of 7.7%.
An illustration from the new provider showed a higher projected  pension (£12,300) 
than the estimated deferred pension (£11,108.88). But I didnt agree that meant  the 
critical yield might be lower than 7.7%  as the illustration didnt appear to allow  for any 
spouses benefits or escalation. 
The aim of transferring was to improve Mr Cs retirement benefits. So there  needed 
to be a reasonable prospect that the transfer  value would  grow  at a higher rate than 
7.7% which was required  just to match the benefits being given up. 
I took into account assumed rates of investment return published by the regulator for 
use when determining  the level of redress payable under  Pension  Review.  The rates  
varied over time and depending on the term to retirement. Mr Cs transfer fell outside  
the Pension Review period. But the rates gave an indication as to what level of 
growth might have been considered  reasonable to have estimated at the time.  The 
applicable rate was 7.1%. 
I didnt think it was reasonable to assume that the transfer value would grow at a 
higher rate and such that would  mean  the new personal pension would be likely to 
provide greater benefits than those Mr C was giving up in the employers  defined  
benefit scheme. On that basis I didnt think he should have been advised to transfer.  
Fairstone had referred (in responding to the complaint) to the funding position of that 
scheme. But the  recommendation letter had made only a brief reference  to any 
deficit:
 It is also worth noting that the [employers scheme] is not in surplus and at the last 
revaluation was in deficit. You have  informed me that the scheme will be wound  up 
over the next two years and it is possible that the scheme will receive further funding 
from [the employer]. 
Ref: DRN81653773Thered been  no further investigation into the situation. I did also mention the 
Financial Assistance Scheme and the Pension  Protection Fund. But I acknowledge 
they hadnt been set up at the time.  
I said that Mr Cs position with the employer might have meant he was better 
informed about  the scheme  than other employees. But that it seemed he thought the 
employer may have been looking  to put more money  into the scheme.  There  was no 
suggestion Mr Cs transfer was driven by concerns about  the solvency of the 
scheme. 
So I agreed with the adjudicator that the complaint should be upheld. I set out how Fairstone 
should redress Mr C. 
Mr C didnt have anything  further to add. Fairstone  did comment. In summary:  
My (provisional)  decision  was heavily reliant  on a single factor   the critical yield of 
7.7% pa. I hadnt taken account of any of Fairstones submissions.
Mr C had made other complaints. Hed included only one sentence about this 
transfer, which had resulted  in a four year investigation. 
At the time of the transfer the defined benefit  scheme was in deficit. The employer 
had been in receivership since early 2000.  Fairstone referred  to Mr Cs fax dated 
24 March 2000  about contributions to the GPPP. The employer wouldnt have been 
able to make  any further contributions  so there  was no evidence to support what  Id 
said about the employer making a contribution to restore the defined benefit 
schemes viability. 
Fairstone had tried to contact Mr C after his previous adviser left. But he didnt review 
his pension arrangements  until some  fourteen years after the transfer. Given the 
concerns hed raised in his fax there must be some  accountability on his part. 
Id paid too much attention to Mr Cs situation at the time of the transfer  and whether 
the transfer was suitable based  on those circumstances. But we cant  be completely 
sure what  his true circumstances  were. Its beyond  logic and fairness to take a 
decision which relates to a situation  more  than eighteen years  earlier. 
The defined benefit scheme was terminated in June  1992. When Mr C transferred it 
was in deficit. If he was prepared  to take some  (investment) risk then the same  would 
be true of his attitude to his deferred benefits  in his employers defined benefit  
scheme. Yet my view was that hed be risk averse in that situation.
Because of his position with the employer hed have known about its pension  
arrangements. And anyone, regardless of their investment knowledge and 
experience, whos  told the defined benefit scheme is in deficit  and being wound up 
would consider if they should leave their money in a seemingly precarious position.
Given his position Mr C would  have known if the employer was going  to make further 
pension contributions. Id said he thought it would. But hed have known for sure. And 
hed transferred out the full value  of his benefits,  before the situation got any worse.
Fairstone doesnt have an insistent client process, nor does it undertake  execution  
only transactions. It accepts that its advice was to transfer and responsibility for that 
lies with the adviser, not the client. The recommendation was based on the hard and 
soft facts available at the time.
What Id said about there being  little point  in transferring unless there was a 
reasonable chance the benefits from the new arrangement would be greater  was 
based on a single factor - the critical yield. That assumes there were no other factors 
and that investment returns over the eighteen plus years to Mr Cs normal  retirement 
date wouldnt be enough to at least match the benefits given up  an assumption  
made with the benefit of hindsight. 
Ref: DRN81653774No one at the time could realistically or categorically state  that a yield of 7.7% pa 
wasnt achievable. The argument that it could not is hypothesis  based on guidelines  
which rely on past performance, something  which also cant be relied  on when 
advising investment  clients about possible future investment returns.
My (provisional)  decision  relies solely on the critical yield. It ignores the employers 
situation and the precarious position of the defined  benefit scheme at the time.  
On that last point  the information  Ive seen about the defined benefit scheme and the GPPP  
includes:
Actuarial valuation of the employers section  of the defined  benefit scheme as at 
31 December 1996: it indicated that on the basis the scheme was wound  up and the 
benefits bought out with annuity  policies  there  was a deficit.  
Mr Cs fax to the GPPP provider dated 24 March  2000 (copied to Fairstone): Mr C 
presumed the GPPP had become inoperable due to the employer  being  in 
receivership. The employers contributions to the GPPP hadnt been paid since 
January 2000.  And although employees contributions had been deducted in 
January 2000  Mr C didnt  think  theyd been  paid into the GPPP. 
Letter dated 7 April 2000  from the receiver: The employers membership of the 
defined benefit  scheme was frozen  in 1992 when the Trustee  decided  that it 
wouldnt be possible to continue running  the scheme and that it would wind up over 
ten years  to minimise withdrawal penalties on the investments. The scheme  was still 
progressing to that end. 
Letter dated 20 July 2000 from the Trustee : A copy of the annual  report and accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 1999  for the defined  benefit scheme was enclosed, 
together with the supplement for the employers section. The letter said that the 
actuarial valuation of the scheme  as at 31 December 1999  had been expected 
around August  2000. But thered been  delays in verifying members  contracted out 
data. The valuation  was now expected  by the end of 2000. 
The supplement  to the report  and accounts noted that during the period covered by 
the report members pensions in payment were increased by 3% pa as guaranteed 
under the Special Rules. 
The auditors  report said that the special contributions payable to the scheme during 
the year ended 31 December 1999 had been  paid in accordance  with the scheme 
rules and the actuarys recommendations.  
The Trustees report recorded that the Trustee intended to postpone the completion 
of the winding up so long as the Trustee considered  there  was likely  to be an overall 
financial advantage  to participating employers and their members  by so doing.  The 
actuarys statement  said the Trustee and its advisers had recently reviewed that 
decision and had concluded that postponing remained  appropriate.  But winding up 
would take place in the foreseeable future. Calculations  to compare the realisable 
assets (net of expenses) with the cost of securing immediate and deferred annuities 
had been undertaken. Annuity terms werent favourable,  especially  for deferred 
annuities. So the test of solvency on a full buy-out  basis  was stringent.  
If a members employers section was deemed to be in deficit at the time a transfer 
value was requested  the amount would be reduced. 
Letter dated 2 August 2000  to Mr C from the GPPP provider: The last payment 
received from the employer was on 20 April 2000   allocated to 1 March 2000.  No 
payments had been received since although  the provider had written to the employer  
about non payment.  The provider  set out Mr Cs options if the employer didnt pay 
any further contributions. 
Ref: DRN81653775Fax dated 11 August 2000  to the GPPP provider from Mr C (copied  to Fairstone): 
The GPPP provider should  have  been  advised  that the employer had gone into 
administrative receivership on 31 January 2000  and was still in receivership and it 
was only a matter  of time before  we place the company  into liquidation .
Letter dated 23 October 2000  from the Trustee to Fairstone: The Trustee  responded 
to the request for a transfer value quotation for Mr C. The Trustee referred to the 
1996 actuarial  valuation  which indicated  that on the basis  that the scheme  was 
wound up and benefits bought out with annuity policies there was a deficit. It added 
that any future transfer value  may need to be reduced to reflect any deficit.  But at the 
present time the transfer value  available represented the full cash  equivalent. 
Ive also seen an update sent to members in August  2001 from the Trustees special adviser. 
Because it postdates Mr Cs transfer  I dont think its directly relevant in terms of what he 
knew about the defined benefit scheme when he decided to transfer out. But, in brief, it 
referred to a letter to members in April 1999  explaining that the scheme  would be wound up 
sometime during or before 2002 and benefits  secured  by purchasing  annuity  policies. The 
Trustee was now preparing to buy annuities. It was expected that would be done  between 
August and October that year (2001). 
The latest actuarial valuation of the scheme   as at 31 December 1999  was enclosed.  The 
valuation was done using three different methods  which  gave different results. On a 
Statutory Surplus basis the employers section was more than adequately funded but no 
immediate action [to eliminate the excess]  was required by the Inland Revenue  in view of the 
impending winding-up. On the Minimum Funding  Requirement basis  there was a small 
deficit. The Trustee had lodged a claim with the receivers  but there was no guarantee any 
payment would be made. On an annuity  buy out basis there was a significant deficit  (about 
28%) so only a proportion  of members full benefits  could be secured on guaranteed terms. 
The letter said that members had two options: a guaranteed annuity (the default option) or a 
transfer value.  The high cost of guaranteed  annuity  policies meant the amount that could  be 
provided would be less than the members accrued benefit in the scheme - about 72%. That 
could change - early indications suggested  the final figure could be over 80%. Any future  
transfer value  might need to be reduced  to reflect any deficit  but, at present, the transfer 
value represented  the full cash  equivalent. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Fairstone has referred  again  to the length  of time this matter has been on going.  As I said in 
my provisional decision, weve had to consider jurisdiction and merits. And we couldnt 
progress the complaint  pending the outcome  of the regulators  consultation about  calculating 
compensation in pension  transfer complaints. Nevertheless Id apologise again for the time 
taken. 
I also note Fairstones comments about the other complaints Mr C has made,  what prompted 
them and which were  important to him. But Mr C included a complaint about this transfer. So 
weve investigated that complaint. 
Fairstone also said Mr Cs complaint had been made too late. Ive considered that earlier.  
But, even  when weve decided  we can consider a complaint, were required to keep that 
Ref: DRN81653776decision under  review. In the case of Chancery (UK) LLP, R (on the application of Chancery 
(UK) LLP)  v Financial Ombudsman Service [2015] EWHC 407 (Admin) the court  said:
  although it is for the [Financial Ombudsman Service] to consider jurisdiction at the 
outset, if it decides  that it has jurisdiction  where that is contested,  it may need  to keep the 
question of jurisdiction  open throughout the course  of the decision-making  process. The 
issue may not be closed  by the final jurisdiction decision. New evidence and issues will have 
to be considered.   Where jurisdiction  has been  and continues  to be disputed,  the 
[Financial Ombudsman  Service] must consider any evidence and argument which goes to 
[its] jurisdiction,  until the conclusion of the case 
Ive thought about jurisdiction again.  Fairstone suggests it isnt fair to decide  a complaint 
about something that happened more than eighteen  years ago. I agree that it can make 
investigating and determining a complaint more difficult. But if a complaint isnt time barred 
under our rules then we can deal with it. Different  time limits  apply to court  cases. In 
particular we dont  have any long stop which perhaps reflects  the fact that many financial 
products, including pensions and investments, may be of long duration. 
When we deal with a complaint about something that happened a long time ago well take 
into account the time thats elapsed. It may be that some  evidence will no longer be 
available. Recollections  may have faded too. So any contemporaneous written evidence 
may carry considerable  weight. In this case weve got quite  a lot of documentary evidence  
including fact finds, Fairstones recommendation letter and other correspondence.  
Fairstones said my (provisional) decision was based on whether the transfer was suitable  
given Mr Cs circumstances at the time. I think thats the correct approach. It wouldnt be fair 
to use hindsight to determine the complaint. And although Fairstone says we cant be sure 
what Mr Cs true circumstances  were at the time, I dont see why the contemporaneous  
evidence shouldnt be relied on. 
Essentially Fairstones arguments  in response to my provisional decision are twofold: first, 
Ive placed too much emphasis on the critical yield; secondly, Ive ignored the employers 
position and what  that meant for its defined  benefit scheme.
Ive thought again about the critical  yield and, in particular, what  Fairstone said about it when 
it recommended the transfer. The recommendation letter dated 16 November 2000 records 
that Mr Cs main priority  was to review his preserved  pension with his previous employer.  It 
sets out four options: retain the preserved  pension; transfer to a personal  pension plan; 
transfer to a section  32 buy out bond;  transfer to Mr Cs new company pension scheme. 
The letter notes the employers defined benefit  scheme is not in surplus and at the last 
revaluation was in deficit. It adds that Mr C had informed the adviser that the scheme will be 
wound up over the next two years and it is possible that the scheme  will receive further 
funding from the employer. 
About option  2 the letter explained that the deferred  pension would need to grow  by 7.7% pa 
in deferment to give Mr C equal benefits  to those that his employer was guaranteeing.  That 
assumed a 50% spouses pension post retirement  as per the employers scheme   although  
if that wasnt required and Mr C chose  a single life annuity the critical yield would reduce. If 
the funds grew in excess of 7.7%  then the benefits that Mr C would receive at retirement at 
age 65 will be better than those offered by Mr Cs previous employer. It they didnt grow by 
at least 7.7%  pa then he would have less and shouldnt have transferred. 
Ref: DRN81653777I think that demonstrates  the importance of the critical yield and Fairstones position  at the 
time - that Mr C should only transfer if the critical yield of 7.7% was achievable.  So, although 
Fairstone says Ive placed  too much weight on the critical yield, I think that reflects  
Fairstones approach at the time and the basis on which it recommended the transfer. The 
critical yield was pivotal.  
The recommendation letter continued by saying that if Mr C didnt believe the funds hed 
selected will grow by at least 7.7%  in deferment then the adviser  would strongly 
recommend that Mr C didnt transfer his preserved  pension. That in my view reinforces the 
importance of the critical yield and that Mr C should  only transfer if the critical yield of 7.7% 
was achievable.  
The adviser seems to have tried to put the onus on Mr C to decide  if he thought the critical  
yield was achievable.  But, as Fairstone accepts, the adviser recommended  the transfer. So 
the inference was that he considered that sort of return was achievable. I considered in my 
provisional decision whether it was reasonable to expect that sort of return. I dont think  it 
was. I havent changed  my view. 
The adviser went on to say, taking everything into account and having compared the death 
benefits, he recommended  Mr C transfer  his preserved pension  to a personal pension. He 
referred to Mr Cs investment risk/reward  profile is speculative over [his] term to retirement 
at age 65 and recommended  that the transfer  value was invested in a UK equity fund. 
Im not sure where speculative has come from. The servicing review completed  on 13 
November 2000  recorded Mr Cs short/medium term (0 to 5 years) risk reward  profile  as 3 to 
4 on a scale of 1 to 5 from very  cautiou s to more speculative. His long term (10+ years)  
risk reward  profile was the same. And that hadnt  changed from the previous year as 
recorded in the personal  financial planning  profile. 
I think that indicates Mr Cs attitude  to risk was above medium  but not speculative. And the 
UK equity  fund recommended is consistent with a medium risk profile. I dont  think theres 
any evidence to suggest that Mr C was prepared  to take a speculative  approach,  either in 
relation to the transfer itself or the funds hed invest in.  
Ive also considered what Fairstones said about  the position of the employer and its defined 
benefit scheme. But, as I noted in my provisional  decision and above,  the recommendation 
letter made little reference to that scheme  and any potential  funding  issues.  
As I said,  if the transfer was driven by concerns about the schemes  solvency, Id expect that 
to be recorded  in the recommendation letter.  It wasnt so its difficult  for Fairstone to 
successfully argue now that it was the driver for Mr Cs decision to transfer.  Or that hed 
have transferred anyway  even  if Fairstone hadnt recommended he do so. 
But, in any event, and looking at the documents Ive referred to above, I dont think the 
position was as clear  cut as Fairstone now suggests. There were  potential solvency issues 
with the defined benefit scheme. And the employer did go into receivership in early 2000 and 
subsequently into voluntary liquidation.  But that and the fact that the scheme was being  
wound up wouldnt necessary mean there  would  ultimately be a funding problem.
I recognise that the Trustees letter  dated 23 October 2000 made it clear  that the transfer 
value quoted hadnt been reduced  to reflect any deficit but that future  transfer values could 
Ref: DRN81653778be. Similar warnings had been  given earlier. The 1996 actuarial valuation indicated  that on 
the basis the defined benefit  scheme  was wound up and benefits  bought  out with annuity  
policies, thered be a deficit. That was repeated in the 1999 report  and accounts sent to 
members on 20 July 2000. So a possible reduction in transfer  values wasnt  a new 
development.
I further note, from the update to members  issued in August 2001, that transfer values being 
offered then, almost  a year or so after Mr C had transferred, still represented  the full cash  
equivalent. So I dont  think, as Fairstone  suggests,  that the amount offered in October 2000 
was Mr Cs last chance to get an unreduced transfer value. 
I note that the 1999 annual report and accounts  records that the employer had been  making  
special contributions (to fund increases to pensions in payment). And its noted  that, where 
the 1996 valuation had indicated a shortfall of assets to liabilities, proposals had been 
agreed with the employers concerned  to eliminate the shortfalls. So that might indicate that 
additional scheme funding might  be forthcoming from the employer. 
And Fairstones recommendation letter recorded  Mr Cs understanding that the employer 
might be in a position to put more money into the defined benefit scheme. I agree that, given 
Mr Cs position with the employer (although I note he wasnt  a scheme  trustee), he might 
have been in a better  position than other  members to know  if that might  happen.  But I dont 
see why hed have  told Fairstone that the employer might pay more  money  into the defined 
benefit scheme if he didnt  think that was possible.  So I dont see any reason not to accept 
that Mr C thought that could happen.
Fairstone regards Mr Cs fax dated 24 March 2000 as significant. Theres  also the letter  
dated 2 August 2000 from the GPPP provider and Mr Cs further  fax to the GPPP  provider 
dated 11 August  2000  saying that the winding up of the employer was imminent.  
Mr C knew that the employers contributions to the GPPP had stopped.  That could indicate 
that employers  overall  financial  position  was deteriorating. But, equally,  a decision to stop 
paying into the GPPP could simply reflect a change in priorities, given that the employer  
knew it was about  to be wound  up and so its contributions to the GPPP  would cease in any 
event. The GPPP and the defined benefit  scheme were entirely separate. A decision to stop 
paying into the GPPP doesnt  automatically  mean  that, in the event that the employer was 
wound up as anticipated, thered be no funds available to meet  any deficit in the defined  
benefit scheme.  
I dont follow  the argument that Mr Cs fax means theres some accountability on his part 
because he didnt respond to Fairstones invitations  to review his pension arrangements. 
And Im not sure, even  if Mr C had seen a new adviser with Fairstone, that any issues about 
the transfer would have  come to light, given Fairstones view is that the advice to transfer 
wasnt unsuitable.  
My view remains that the advice to transfer was unsuitable. Fairstone should redress Mr C 
(so as to put him as far as possible in the position hed be in now but for the unsuitable 
advice) and as I set out in my provisional  decision. Ive repeated that here:
Fairstone Financial Management (City) Limited should undertake a redress  calculation in line 
with the revised  methodology issued  by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
Ref: DRN81653779regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate actuarial 
services provider promptly following receipt  of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the 
decision. 
Fairstone Financial Management (City) Limited may wish to contact  the Department for Work  
and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  
adjustment in the calculation,  which will take into account the impact  of leaving the 
employers scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into Mr Cs pension plan. 
The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. It shouldnt 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If payment  into a pension  isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications,  it should  
be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
For example, if Mr C wouldnt  yet have taken a tax-free cash  sum from the employers 
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr C 
within 90 days of the date Fairstone Financial Management (City) Limited  receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes Fairstone Financial 
Management (City) Limited to pay Mr C this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Fairstone Financial Management (City)  Limited should redress  Mr C 
as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8165377