K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr R says the loan repayments  meant he struggled to pay for essential household 
outgoings and he had to borrow further.  
background
This complaint is about four short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr R between June and July 
2018. Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 15/06/2018 Outstanding 6 £250.00
2 05/07/2018 Outstanding 6 £150.00
3 11/07/2018 Outstanding 6 £250.00
4 19/07/2018 27/07/2018 6 £150.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and thought  loan four shouldnt have been 
given. Sunny disagreed but later, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to refund  any interest or 
charges on loan four but without any interest for the time Mr R was out of pocket. 
Mr R didnt agree with the offer and as the complaint  remains unresolved  it has been passed  
to me in my role as ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN85834592refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr R didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because  of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So I wont  be making a decision  about this lending.  But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr R had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account  when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan four would  most  likely have 
shown that Mr R wasnt managing his money  very well.
I say this because  when Mr R took loan four he already  had the first three loans  running  
concurrently. And I note from Sunnys final response  to Mr Rs complaint it says that it had to 
email Mr R in June  2018 because of late payment which  would clearly  be a suggestion  that 
Mr R was struggling with his finances.
Mr R had taken all four loans within a very short space  of time, in just over one month. Such  
a quick uptake  of loans  and particularly for loans two to four where it was a matter  of days  
since the previous  borrowing had been  taken  may have been a further  indication  Mr R 
wasnt managing  his finances. It also could  have been a sign that Mr R was juggling  his 
finances and was having to borrow further  in order to make the loan repayments. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loan four and Sunny should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
If the outstanding balance  due on Mr Rs loan has been transferred to a third party Sunny 
should buy the loan back if it can. If Sunny cant buy the loan back, then it needs to work 
with the third party to make sure the following  is achieved: 
Ref: DRN85834593A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr R which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr R originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr R as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
If this results  in Mr R having made overpayments then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Sunny should  then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus  then the surplus should  be paid to Mr R. However  if there is still 
an outstanding  balance then Sunny should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr R. 
E) Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to loan 
four
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr R still has an outstanding balance due, then Sunny should try 
and work  together to come  to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan with Mr R in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Sunny of its obligation to treat Mr R fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8583459