K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy  about the 
valuation placed  on his car following a claim on his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr N was involved in an accident in March 2019 and made a claim under his motor 
insurance policy. Admiral decided his car was a write off and offered Mr N what  it thought 
was the market value of his car. It had reduced  the value by 20% as Mr Ns car was 
imported.
Mr N wasnt happy about this as he thought this wasnt a fair valuation of his car so he 
complained to Admiral  and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He looked into the 
valuations and decided  that the 20% reduction was too much  and out of line with how this 
service approaches  these  kinds of cases. Initially he suggested that a reduction of 5% was 
fair. But he then decided that a 10% reduction  was probably a fairer reflection of the market 
value having considered  Admirals further representations.
As Admiral didnt agree the matter has been  passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
It isnt this services role to value  cars and valuing  second hand cars isnt an exact science. 
But we do look to ensure that insurers undertake reasonable valuations  and provide a fair 
market value.
When considering  valuations placed on cars by insurance companies we look at the 
approach the insurer has taken and look to see if it has acted fairly in the circumstances. As 
the investigator explained we pay particular attention to the various trade guides used for 
valuing cars, as well as other  evidence  provided  by both sides.  
This might include advertisements for the sale of similar cars. But I place a lot less weight on 
these than on the trade guides (as outlined by our investigator previously). This is because 
cars dont  normally sell for the price they are advertised at as there is usually some room for 
negotiation within the advertised  price. Other factors can impact on the value of a vehicle, 
such as the condition of the car at the time of the accident and in this instance the fact that 
the car has been  imported.
I will only order a business to increase its valuation if I feel it its valuation isnt fair. And in this 
instance Im not persuaded that Admiral has provided a fair valuation.  
I can understand Admirals position in valuing Mr Ns car. I say this as an imported car like 
Mr Ns generally sells for less. But I think that a 20% reduction  seems excessive in these 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN84780752Mr N bought his car at auction and he knew that it had been imported from Australia at that 
time. The car had a Q registration and I agree that its value would be less than the full 
market value for a car that hadnt been  imported. But generally imports sell for about 10% 
less so that feels fairer.
I know Admiral  have  made an argument that Mr N probably paid about 19% less than the 
market value when  he bought it at auction which it feels shows its reduction  is fair. But cars 
generally do sell for less at auction so I would expect the actual market value to be higher. 
Indeed, some of the trade guides to give a guide  of the kind of price these cars sell for at 
auction separately. Ive looked  at the guides  and in this instance  the difference is nowhere 
near 20%. And, as Admiral knows, just because Mr N got the car cheaper  at auction doesnt 
mean that he shouldnt  get the market  value of the car now.
I have also looked  at the overall valuation of the car. And I can see that there  was some 
debate about the overall price used by Admiral before  it made its reduction. But having 
looked at the various trade  valuation  guides  it appears that the overall price was fair. So I 
dont propose to interfere  with that. 
So, although  I can understand Admirals  argument  and accept that there should be a 
reduction I dont think it offered a fair valuation when it deducted  20% of the market value. I 
think that a 10% deduction is a fairer reflection of the value of Mr Ns car. I say this as 
imported cars generally sell for about 10% less and I havent been provided  with any strong  
evidence that a higher amount is fair, especially when you consider that there arent many of 
Mr Ns car on the road. I also think that Admiral should pay 8% simple interest for the time 
he has been without  the money  that he shouldve had. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited  to only deduct  10% from the market value of Mr Ns car. It 
should also pay 8% simple interest  on any outstanding amount from the date of claim until 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8478075