K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains about how British  Gas Insurance Limited (BG) dealt with her Homecare  
insurance claim. My references to BG include its agents.
background
In September  2017, Mrs N contacted  BG about  shower waste causing a stain  on her 
downstairs ceiling. BGs contracted  engineer attended and said the problem wasnt  a 
plumbing issue but a problem  with the grouting and Mrs N should also get a screen  for the 
bath in case of water overflow. Grouting work  isnt covered by the policy.
Soon after BGs visit Mrs N stopped living permanently at the property due to work 
commitments. She says her children lived there, she generally returned fortnightly and 
returned permanently  in May 2018.
Mrs N says she noticed the damage  to her celling in July 2018 when she returned from 
being away. She says someone removed some of the bathroom  tiles to see if the leak was 
due to poor grouting, as BG had told her, but he said there  wasnt  much evidence  of the leak 
coming though  the tiles. 
In July 2018 Mrs N called BG. Its engineer  found  the bath waste was dripping which it 
repaired.
Mrs N complained that BG missed the cause of the leak in September  2017. She said BGs 
error caused a lot of additional  damage  to the ceiling by the time it found the cause in 2018. 
She wanted BG to fix the ceiling and re-tile the removed bathroom tiles.
Ultimately our investigator thought BG hadnt missed the cause of the leak in 2017. It didnt 
need to repair or pay for any damage or work relating to the tiles.
Mrs N disagrees  and wants  an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
From what Mrs N has said,  although there  was some damage to her ceiling in 2017  she only 
noticed the extent of the damage  to the ceiling in July 2018. That was ten months after BGs 
initial visit and two months after she said she returned permanently  to the property. Ive seen 
the photos she sent us of the ceiling in 2018. The ceiling has a hole and the staining  looks 
extensive. 
As Mrs N was returning to her property fortnightly it's more  likely than not that she would 
have see any damage on that scale much  sooner  than July 2018. I think the evidence 
strongly suggests that in a relatively short time the damage was caused by a different leak 
than the one BG found in 2017. Otherwise  Mrs N would have seen the extent or build up of 
the damage before.
Ref: DRN82679692On balance, I dont  think the bath waste leak was present when BG attended the properly in 
2017. That means it didnt miss the cause of the leak. Theres also no evidence BG caused 
the leak. It isnt responsible for the damage  that occurred as a result of the leak and doesnt 
need to pay for any repairs.
Mrs N has now accepted  that BG isnt responsible for paying  for the bathroom tiles to be 
removed and replaced, which shes now had done.  For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think 
BG should pay for the work relating to the tiles.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8267969