K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that the vehicle she acquired through  a hire purchase  agreement financed 
by Marsh Finance  Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants  to reject the vehicle or for the 
business to pay for repairs.
background
Mrs W tells us she acquired  the vehicle in June 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as S. She 
says that from the outset  shes had difficulty in opening the petrol  cap. And she states that 
the petrol tank wont completely fill - which she puts down to an obstruction.  She says S told 
her shed have to pay for any repairs as the vehicle  wasnt  subject to any warranty.  Mrs W 
also feels she was rushed into signing the agreement.
Marsh Finance told us that Mrs W had complained  to it in January 2019. It said shed notified  
it of problems with the petrol cap and had also said she wanted to reject the vehicle as her 
partner found  difficulty in getting  into it due to health  problems. It said shed later stated that 
an independent garage had told her there  were  faults with the airbag. Marsh Finance  
confirmed that in a validation  phone  call with Mrs W at the time of the agreement  shed 
accepted shed taken the vehicle for a test drive prior to entering the agreement.  And that 
shed been given adequate time to read the terms and conditions. It said there was nothing 
to show the issues  referred to were present at the point  of supply.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said there was no 
information to show the vehicle was faulty at the point of supply. And having listened to a 
recording of the relevant  telephone call, she said Mrs W had confirmed shed been given 
enough time to read the terms of the finance agreement.
Mrs W didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs W has experienced  problems  with this vehicle. I understand its annoying 
when things go wrong but unfortunately with used vehicles the risk is that much greater.
Dealing briefly with the issue about  whether Mrs W had adequate  time to read the terms and 
conditions of the finance agreement. Ive listened to a phone call between  her and Marsh 
Finance around  the time the agreement was taken out. And in that conversation Mrs W 
confirms she was given  sufficient time. So I cant say Marsh Finance has done anything 
wrong in this respect
Mrs Ws hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Marsh  Finance supplied  the vehicle and its 
therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the 
law - directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods have to be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory quality is defined  as being what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory  having regard for factors  which  can 
include but are not limited  to the age of the goods  and previous  use.
Ref: DRN81123502Ive seen various references made  about this vehicle not being covered  by a warranty. So I 
should explain that whether or not a vehicle is supplied with a warranty has no bearing on if 
its of satisfactory quality. A warranty can provide additional protection  for a consumer in the 
event of things  going wrong. But it doesnt replace statutory rights contained in the CRA. 
So if Id seen information which led me to believe the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
when supplied, then Id think that Marsh  Finance  would be potentially liable to cover  the 
repair costs whether or not there was a current warranty in place.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - Im required to reach  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. And Ill say immediately that I dont think theres  
enough evidence  to show this vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
I dont doubt Mrs W when  she says shes experienced  problems with the petrol  cap and 
filling the tank. But theres nothing to say that this is due to a fault with the vehicle. And Id 
have thought that if the petrol cap on a two year old vehicle was faulty  its likely to be a 
matter of general wear  and tear. And something  that could easily be replaced.  Ive seen no 
independent confirmation that theres  any obstruction preventing the tank from refilling.
Mrs W acquired the vehicle in June 2018  when the mileage recorded was 37,161.  The 
vehicle has subsequently passed two MOT  tests,  most recently in January  2020.  The 
odometer reading on that occasion is recorded  as 53,942 miles. This shows  that in the time 
Mrs W has possessed  the vehicle its covered what we would consider to be average,  if not 
slightly more than average mileage. If there  are faults with the vehicle they dont  seem  to 
have had any substantial  effect on its performance. And certainly not to the extent  that would 
indicate it wasnt of satisfactory quality.  Whilst Ive seen no independent confirmation of any 
fault with the airbag, this would again  seem likely to be a serviceable issue.
In summary,  Ive not been provided with any independent confirmation that this vehicle is 
experiencing faults which were present at the point  of supply. So it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to say it wasnt of satisfactory  quality  at that time. Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8112350