K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains he was given  unsuitable advice by an appointed representative of 
Kingsway Wealth Management  Limited to move his pensions  to a self-invested  personal 
pension (SIPP). This allowed him to invest in a high risk overseas property investment.
background
In 2010 Mr G found out about an overseas property investment opportunity (Cyprus Two). 
He was passed to two advisers. One of those advisers worked for a company that was an 
appointed representative of Kingsway at the time. He was to look at the feasibility of 
switching Mr Gs pensions to a SIPP. The other  was a registered individual of a network  (Ill 
refer to him as the IFA for convenience). He arranged the overseas property investment in 
the SIPP.
Mr G filled in a client information  form for Kingsways appointed representative in 
March 2010. At the time Mr G was 43. The form recorded that he had:
An income of £35,000.
Two properties  one worth £190,000 with an outstanding mortgage  of £70,000 and a 
buy-to-let worth £72,000. Mr G has since told us the buy-to-let property had an 
outstanding mortgage  of £62,000.
£30,000 of debts and loans.
£5,000 of savings.
Two personal pensions that are discussed in this decision.
A lump sum retirement benefit  scheme  with a connected additional voluntary 
contributions (AVC) scheme.
Mr G stated that his objective was to consolidate  his pension plans; receive better  returns; 
and invest in property.  He described  himself  as having a low-medium  attitude  to risk.
The adviser for Kingsways appointed representative  wrote  to Mr G in May 2010 thanking  
him for filling  in the client information form and saying:
We will base our review  and advice upon  this informationOur advice has focussed  
solely upon the viability of the transfer of your personal pensions into a SIPP (Self 
Invested Personal Pension) taking  into account  your objectivesAny investment 
advice is to be subsequently provided by your own financial adviser.
He didnt recommend  that Mr G move the lump  sum retirement benefit scheme and attached  
AVC scheme (the smallest of his pensions).
In relation to Mr Gs other two pensions, he set out their transfer value  which was just under 
£49,500. He also set out a projection  of the benefits  available at age 65 (Mr Gs planned 
retirement age). This gave a projected fund value at 5% of £116,700.
This was then compared to the charges for a SIPP. A generic fund charge of 1.5%  a year 
was assumed and the report explained  it was likely thered be additional  charges. At age 65 
the projected fund value  for the SIPP was £85,700.
He went on to conclude:
Ref: DRN87186112Based on the information supplied I would recommend a transfer to a Self Invested  
Personal Pension (SIPP).
I do recommend that your [two main] existing  pension  fundsare transferred into a 
Self Invested Personal Pension
 [Kingsways appointed  representative] are not offering advice about the 
investment of funds.
Mr G signed the confirmation  to proceed  which was attached. This said:
I acknowledge receipt of this suitability reportwhich confirms  the advice and 
recommendation provided to me. I understand [Kingsways appointed representative] 
are not offering investment  advice. I wish to proceed with the recommendation as 
detailed.
A SIPP was opened and Mr Gs two main pensions were moved to it in June 2010. Mr G 
then changed  his adviser to the IFA and purchased  £44,000 of shares in Cyprus Two. Hes 
since been told the shares  have no value and he now knows the investment was high risk.
Mr G initially complained to the network  responsible for the IFA. He was directed to 
Kingsway and also complained to it. Kingsway said it wasnt responsible  because  Mr Gs 
complaint was clearly  about the IFA.
An investigator was satisfied Mr Gs complaint  could be considered against Kingsway and 
recommended it be upheld. She was satisfied Mr G was unhappy with the pension  advice 
hed received and pointed  out thatd been given by the appointed representative of 
Kingsway. She considered suitable  advice would have considered the investment Mr G was 
planning to make and advised  against moving  his pensions to a SIPP to make it. And she 
was satisfied Mr G would have followed this advice and not moved  his pensions.
Kingsway didnt agree. It reiterated  that the complaint was clearly  about the IFA. It said its 
role was to provide a vehicle to invest in property which itd done.  And Mr G had then taken 
separate investment advice from the IFA. It hadnt  known the details but had taken  comfort  
from the fact he was getting advice from a regulated adviser. And it pointed  out that the 
network responsible  for the IFA had received initial and ongoing  fees.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that this complaint can be considered against Kingsway and that its appointed 
representative gave  Mr G unsuitable advice. Im also satisfied that if suitable advice had 
been given by Kingsways appointed representative,  Mr G would have followed that advice.
can this complaint be considered against  Kingsway?
Section 226 of the Financial Services and Markets  Act (FSMA)  says:
(1)A complaint which relates to an act or omission  of a person (the respondent)  in 
carrying on an activity to which  compulsory  jurisdiction  rules apply is to be dealt 
Ref: DRN87186113with under the ombudsman scheme  if the conditions mentioned in subsection  (2) 
are satisfied.
(2)The conditions are that 
(a)the complainant  is eligible and wishes to have the complaint dealt with under 
the scheme;
(b) the respondent was an authorised person  at the time of the act or omission 
to which  the complaint  relates;  and
(c)the act or omission to which the complaint relates occurred at a time when 
compulsory jurisdiction rules  were in force in relation to the activity in 
question.
Its not in dispute  that Mr G is an eligible  complainant (a customer of Kingsways appointed 
representative). He wishes to have his complaint dealt with by this service.  Kingsway (the 
respondent in this complaint) is an authorised business and was at the time of the events 
complained about.  And Im satisfied Mr Gs complaint is about a regulated  activity  carried  out 
in the UK and that it was made within the required  timescales. So the complaint is one I can 
look at.
Whether, as a matter  of merit, Kingsway is responsible for the matters subject to complaint is 
something for me to decide on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Mr Gs complaint is that he was advised  to move his pensions to make  an unsuitable 
investment. Understandably,  hes not clear about who did what. But its clear  hes unhappy 
with the advice he received to switch his pensions. And that advice  was given by Kingsways 
appointed representative. In the circumstances here, Im satisfied Mr Gs complaint can be 
considered against Kingsway.
did Kingsways appointed representative  give suitable advice?
Kingsway says its appointed representative  only advised on moving  Mr Gs pensions to the 
SIPP with the objective of investing in property. And this was made clear to Mr G. It says 
Mr G made  his decision about the overseas  property  investment later  as a result  of advice 
from the IFA.
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook rules (COBS) contain  a number of rules  and principles 
that are relevant  here.  In particular, COBS 2.1.1R required Kingsways appointed 
representative to act honestly, fairly  and professionally in accordance  with the best interests 
of its client. The principles for business  required it to act with integrity  (principle 1); due skill, 
care and diligence (principle 2); in the customers interests (principle 6); and with reasonable 
care to ensure  the suitability of its advice  (principle  9). And COBS  9.2.2R  required  
Kingsways appointed representative to believe what it was recommending  met Mr Gs 
investment objectives  and that he could bear the risk of it.
In 2013, the Financial Services  Authority (now the Financial  Conduct Authority) issued  an 
alert in relation  to Advising on pension transfers  with a view to investing pension  monies  
into unregulated  products  through a SIPP. Amongst other  things, this said:
Ref: DRN87186114It should be particularly  clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks  
advice on a pension  transfer in implementing  a wider investment  strategy,  the advice 
on the pension  transfer must take account  of the overall investment strategy the 
customer is contemplating.
I acknowledge that this alert was issued after the events here.  But Im satisfied it was simply 
a reminder of existing  obligations under COBS and therefore is relevant.
Kingsways appointed representative knew Mr G was looking to move his whole pension  
provision. It knew the charges on the SIPP were higher than Mr Gs existing plans so its 
performance needed to be much  better  for Mr G to not lose out. And it knew the SIPP was 
just a wrapper  and so its suitability was linked to the investment that was going  to be made 
within it.
In the circumstances here, Im satisfied that acting in Mr Gs best interests  would have taken 
account of all of these things. And would have involved understanding  the property 
investment he was planning to make. Suitable advice needed to take account of both the 
pension switches and the proposed property investment.
Before being introduced  to Kingsways appointed representative Mr G had discussed  the 
overseas property investment he went on to make with the business  that introduced it to him. 
Its clear he had this investment in mind at the point Kingsways appointed representative 
became involved.
Its not clear whether  Kingsways appointed representative knew  exactly what property 
investment Mr G was planning to make.  It may well be that it didnt. But if that was the case,  
Im satisfied it should have asked.
Ive therefore  gone  on to think  about  what suitable  advice would have been, based  on what I 
know about Mr Gs circumstances at the time, had Kingsway considered  the nature of the 
intended investment.
Mr G wasnt an experienced  investor  and it doesnt  seem that he could afford to take 
significant risk with his pension  provisions. Instead,  the opposite  appears to have been true 
 he appears to have  had limited investment experience and this was most of his pension 
provision. He was unlikely  to be able to replace any significant losses. And he had expressly 
stated his attitude to risk was low-medium.
The property investment Mr G made  was high risk and illiquid.  It had no track record and 
there was a possibility  the project would  fail and his investment  would be lost. Either  
Kingsways appointed representative knew it was a high risk investment, or it should have 
known because it should have asked Mr G what investment he was planning to make.  Mr G 
had no other  pension provision beyond the pensions he discussed  moving.  And the two left 
where they were  are worth considerably less than the two he switched.
I therefore think Kingsways appointed  representative should have concluded the pension  
switches to the SIPP  werent suitable and should  have told Mr G this in the strongest 
possible terms. This would have involved explaining that the property investment was high 
risk and making it clear  that Mr G could lose all of his money.
I think its unlikely Mr G would have ignored this advice from a regulated  adviser  
particularly if the reasoning had been  clearly explained.  So Im satisfied that if Kingsways  
Ref: DRN87186115appointed representative had given  suitable advice, Mr G wouldnt  have  switched his 
pensions to the SIPP or made the investments.
I can see that a letter  was sent to Mr G ten days after the suitability report  modifying the 
advice given. In particular, it raised concerns  about the pension switches and investing in 
property. Ive considered  this letter  carefully.  But taking everything into account, Im satisfied 
it didnt go far enough and the advice given still wasnt  suitable.
fair compensation
I appreciate Mr G has made a complaint against the IFAs network, and Kingsway  says the 
responsibility for the financial loss suffered by Mr G should lie with that network.
The Dispute Resolution:  Complaints rules (the DISP rules)  found  in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) handbook  set out the following at DISP  3.6.3G:
Where a complainant  makes complaints against more than one respondent in 
respect of connected circumstances,  the Ombudsman may determine that the 
respondents must contribute  towards  the overall award  in the proportion that the 
Ombudsman considers  appropriate.
The DISP  rules also set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money  
award, then that money award  may be such amount as the ombudsman  considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not the court would award  compensation 
(DISP 3.7.2R).
In this case Mr G has complained about both Kingsway and the network responsible  for the 
IFA. But here Im only considering Mr Gs complaint about Kingsway.
Irrespective of what the IFA did, Kingsways appointed representative still gave advice. In my 
view, its actions allowed  the SIPP to be set up and the overseas property investment to be 
made. But for the pension switches, no investment could  take place. And Im satisfied the 
pension switches wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice of Kingsways 
appointed representative. So Im satisfied  its fair and reasonable that Kingsway should 
compensate Mr G for all of the losses he suffered by moving his pensions  to the SIPP.
I think what Ive set out below is fair compensation. But if Kingsway wishes  to take an 
assignment of any rights  from Mr G so that it can take action to recover  any losses  caused 
by the other parties, Im happy for it to do so. Mr G should cooperate  with Kingsway to 
recover any losses from other parties, if full compensation is paid by Kingsway.
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr G wouldnt have moved  his pensions if everything  had happened  as it 
should have. Im satisfied  that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable. 
what should Kingsway do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Kingsway must:
Obtain the notional transfer values  of Mr Gs previous pension plans on the date of 
Ref: DRN87186116calculation if theyd not been  transferred to the SIPP.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  notional valuations then the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income Total Return  Index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index) should  be used  as Im satisfied thats  a 
reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been  achieved if suitable 
funds had been chosen.
Its to be assumed that any contributions  or withdrawals that have  been  made  would 
still have occurred  proportionately  on the same dates.
Compare the transfer value of Mr G's SIPP with the notional  transfer  values of his 
previous pensions (or the fair values calculated  by the benchmark).
My understanding is that theres  no realisable  value of the Cyprus  Two investment. 
So the actual  value of the investment  should  be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair 
compensation. 
Pay the compensation into Mr G's SIPP if this demonstrates a loss  to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest (see below). The 
amount paid should allow for the effect  of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Kingsway is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Take ownership of the Cyprus  Two investment by paying a commercial  value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the 
compensation.
The SIPP only exists because of the investment. If Kingsway isnt able to purchase it, 
Mr G wont be able to close the SIPP. Kingsway  should therefore pay him five years  
worth of SIPP fees. It may also require that Mr G provides an undertaking to pay it 
any amount he may receive from the investment  in the future. That undertaking must  
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the 
pension plan. Kingsway will need  to meet any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking.
Pay Mr G £500 compensation for the stress and worry hes suffered thinking hed lost 
a large proportion of his pension provision.
Ref: DRN87186117If Kingsway doesnt  pay the compensation within 28 days of being  informed that Mr G has 
accepted my decision, interest, at the rate of 8% simple a year should be added from the 
date of this decision  to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Kingsway deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr G how much has been  taken off. Kingsway should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Kingsway Wealth  Management Limited should 
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Kingsway Wealth Management  Limited should  provide  details of its calculation to Mr G in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8718611