K821x#15Complaint
Ms L and Mr G complain that Go Car Credit  Limited refused to let them  reject  a faulty car.
Background
In October  2017 Ms L and Mr G acquired second  hand car costing £6,495  funded by a hire 
purchase agreement  with Co Car. It was some three  years old and had done approximately  
17,500 miles. 
They say that when they acquired the car it didnt have a valid MOT and the garage  
suggested they drive  it away  and it would cover the cost of a subsequent test. They  refused 
and the dealer carried out a MOT a few days later and the car was delivered to them. 
Ms L and Mr G had the car serviced in October  2017, as the last recorded service  had been  
done in October  2015. On 26 June 2018,  some 8 months after entering into the agreement, 
the timing chain snapped. The car was towed to a local garage by the RAC.  The garage 
inspected the car and concluded the issue  was a catastrophic oil pump  failure caused by a 
lack of servicing. 
They complained to Go Car, but it took the view that there was insufficient evidence  to show 
the fault was present at the point of sale. It suggested that Ms L and Mr G pay for a more 
detailed report.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. She noted Ms L had been  in contact with the 
manufacturer which had said that despite  the car just being out of warranty  if it had been  
serviced properly it would have taken the car for investigation due to the unusual  nature of 
the failure. 
She also spoke to the garage which had inspected the car and it confirmed it had only 
covered some 21,000 miles at the time the fault occurred. It said that the failure  could have 
happened without  any engine management lights warnings. 
It said that changing the oil during a regular service  is crucial as the oil begins to congeal 
and affects the oil pressure. When the oil pressure  changes, the timing chain begins  to jump 
and eventually snaps,  causing engine failure  instantaneously. It restated that the reason for 
the failure was down  to the lack of servicing.  
Our investigator suggested Go Car may wish to pay for an independent  inspection  report on 
the vehicle to obtain an independent engineers opinion  on whether they thought  the 
problem was present  or developing at point  of sale, or whether it was a durability  issue. She 
said Ms L had explained  said they couldnt afford to meet this cost. 
Go Car agreed to an independent inspection,  but the car was being stored and it said the 
garage wanted its storage bill paid which Go Car wasnt prepared  to pay. Subsequently it 
suggested it would seek to have the inspection carried out, but as nothing further was 
received from the business the matter  has been referred to me.
Ref: DRN84506012My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Go Car is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
While we dont have  an independent report into the cause of the catastrophic failure  of the 
engine I consider the circumstantial evidence points to it being due to the lack of 
maintenance prior to the sale.  The manufacturer  has said that the car should  be serviced at 
least once a year and almost two years had passed from the previous and was only serviced  
when the car was sold by the dealer. 
I also find it concerning that Ms L and Mr G were told to take it away without a valid MOT. 
Their statement to this effect is corroborated by the date of the MOT  being several days  after 
the sale agreement. This indicates  a lax approach to the care of the car and the legality of 
driving a car without  valid MOT.
However, I presume the dealer was sufficiently  knowledgeable to have inspected the service 
book and to have appreciated the potential impact. I am not aware  that Ms L or Mr G were 
told of this major shortcoming.  I have noted they were able to drive the car for some 3,500 
miles, but that doesnt mean that the fault wasnt present  at the point  of sale.  It seems  that 
the lack of an oil change would have caused  the oil to congeal and lead to the failure.
Therefore on balance I am persuaded that the car wasnt fit for purpose  when it was sold 
and Ms L and Mr G should be suitably  compensated. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Go Car Credit Limited to:
Ref: DRN84506013Allow Ms L and Mr G to reject  the vehicle and hand  it back  with nothing  further to 
pay;
Remove the agreement from their credit files and;
Pay them £150  for the distress  and inconvenience this has caused.
I have reached this decision on the understanding that they stopped  their monthly  payment 
soon after the issue occurred, but if that is incorrect monthly payments should  be refunded 
from the date that car broke down plus interest  at 8% simple from the date paid until repaid. . 
I also note that no deposit  was paid,  so no refund will be made in respect of this. 
If there are storage charges to be paid that is the responsibility of Go Car. If it disputes the 
sum due it can address  that with the garage  holding the car without troubling Ms L or Mr G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020. 
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8450601