K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Mulsanne  Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) denied his insurance 
claim following the theft of his vehicle.
background
For ease, in my decision I will refer to Mulsanne when talking about their agents or 
representatives, and Mr A when talking about  his.
Mr A had motor vehicle insurance with Mulsanne. In February 2019 Mr As car was stolen 
from outside his home  address. He reported the theft to Mulsanne who reviewed  the claim.
Mulsanne sent an interviewer to get a statement from Mr A. In this statement, Mr A 
explained that three to four days before the theft, his car key went missing after hed visited 
a car wash.  Mr A said hed then gone  to a car dealership to ask for advice. He was told they 
could change the keys and key frequency, but he didnt do this because  it was too 
expensive. 
Mr A also said that over the next few days  he thought  someone  had been  in the vehicle but 
he couldnt prove it. Mr A said the lights were on different settings, the visor was down and at 
one point the drivers  door was unlocked.
In April 2019, whilst Mulsanne were considering the claim, the police recovered the car after 
it was involved in an accident. 
Later that month  Mulsanne  rejected Mr As theft claim. They relied  on a policy term which  
required Mr A to take all reasonable steps to protect his vehicle and its contents from loss or 
damage. Mulsanne didnt think Mr As statement indicated hed done  this. So, they wouldnt 
cover the costs of the damage caused during the accident.
Mr A didnt think this was fair, so he complained. Mulsanne didnt uphold his complaint so 
Mr A asked us to look into the matter. 
Our investigator found that Mulsanne  had acted reasonably in applying  this policy term. Mr A 
didnt agree, so its been passed to me decide.
Mr A has raised a number  of points as part of his complaint, including:  
Mr A wasnt provided with the policy document by his insurance  broker and so he 
wasnt aware of the term the insurer relied  on. 
Mr A is disabled  and in poor health.  He explained that he needs to attend  hospital 
three times a week for treatment and this makes him very tired.  He said hed acted 
as quickly as his health allowed him to in response to the missing  key. 
The interviewer from Mulsanne  sat with Mr A for over three  hours knowing that hed 
just undergone treatment  and was tired. This caused Mr A to give responses  that 
suited the insurers  purposes.  Mr A also alleged that the interviewer fraudulently  led 
him to believe their purpose was to locate the thieves.
Mr A felt Mulsanne should  now consider  a separate claim for the accident, as the car 
was recovered.  He said Mulsanne had led him to believe this is what they were  doing 
because theyd sent him a report form following the accident.
Ref: DRN82012622In response to Mr As complaint, Mulsanne denied that the interviewer tried to mislead  Mr A 
or take advantage of his ill health. They said at no point during the interview  did Mr A 
indicate he was too tired or unwell to continue.  
Mulsanne also said it was a mistake when  Mr A was sent the report form following the 
accident.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties that Mr A has experienced, both in relation to the theft 
of his vehicle and his health. I can see that this has had a significant impact  on him. And I 
can understand why Mr A feels it was unfair his claim  was rejected when he wasnt  
responsible for the theft. 
Mr A has raised a number  of issues and concerns and I want  to assure him Ive taken into 
account everything hes told us. But this decision only addresses  those  issues I consider to 
be materially relevant  to this complaint. 
policy document
Im aware that Mr A has said he never  received the policy document  with the term relied on 
by Mulsanne. But he purchased his insurance through  his broker,  and it was their 
responsibility to provide  him with this information. The broker  was acting on their own behalf 
and not on behalf of Mulsanne. So, any concerns Mr A has about  this must be dealt with 
separately. 
Because Mulsanne werent responsible for whether  Mr A received the relevant documents, 
I dont think theyve done anything wrong  here.  And I think its reasonable for them  to 
consider this term in the policy given it formed part of their agreement with Mr A. 
theft claim
Everyone agrees  Mr As car was stolen. Mulsanne think  its likely  the thief used the missing 
key. But the engineers report following the car examination also raises the possibility this 
was done by scanning the key fob and then stealing  the vehicle using a computer. But I dont 
think it matters  which  of these two ways the car was stolen  in these particular circumstances 
 Ill explain why.
Mulsanne denied  Mr As claim on the basis he did not take reasonable steps  to protect  his 
vehicle and its contents from loss.
Mr As account is that in the days before the theft, he believed  someone had been in his 
vehicle. But theres no evidence Mr A then took any steps to try to prevent theft. I think  he 
ought reasonably  to have recognised the risk of theft here. And so, I think  its fair and 
reasonable to expect  a consumer to take some action in response to such  concerns. 
Mulsanne have  advised  there were a number  of things Mr A could have done, including  
moving the vehicle,  changing the keys/key  frequency or applying  a steering wheel lock.
Ref: DRN82012623So, Ive then looked at whether Mr As particular  circumstances explain why no steps were 
taken. 
And I think Mr A may have been  more  limited in the action he could  take once he realised  
someone had been  in his car. For example, I can see how Mr As disability may have meant  
parking the car in a different location, and so further away from his house, would be 
problematic. But I think there were options  Mr A could have taken in response  to this. 
For example, he could have reported  his concerns to the police or sought  advice  from his 
insurer. 
Ive considered what Mr A told us about  how tired he is after undergoing treatment. And I 
can see how this could  have delayed him taking  reasonable steps. But Mr As account  was 
that he was using his car during this time. And he said he went to the supermarket the night 
before the theft. So, the evidence doesnt  indicate that it was Mr As ill health that prevented  
him from taking action during this time. 
Given this, Im not convinced Mr As circumstances sufficiently explain why he didnt take 
any steps when  he thought someone  had gained access  to his vehicle. 
In reaching this view,  Ive also taken into account Mr As concerns about how his interview 
was conducted.  But Ive noted  that Mr A hasnt  at any time stated that the information he 
provided was inaccurate. So, whilst  these  allegations are concerning  and will be discussed 
later in my decision, this evidence doesnt change  my view in relation to this point. 
Whilst I know Mr A will find this disappointing,  based  on the evidence available  to me, I cant  
say it was unreasonable for Mulsanne  to reject his claim. 
Im aware Mulsanne have  also highlighted a number of concerns over how Mr A dealt with 
his missing key. And Mr A has provided  responses  to these. But taking account of what  Ive 
said above, I dont  think these need  to be considered here.  Regardless  of how someone 
gained access to his car, the evidence indicates  Mr A suspected this had happened and 
didnt take any steps to prevent the theft. So, I think this clause can be fairly applied  by 
Mulsanne no matter how entry was gained.
accident claim
Mr A feels  that Mulsanne should now consider his accident claim because the theft claim 
ended once the vehicle was recovered.  And whilst I can understand why he might think  this, 
I dont think this is fair way to consider  the circumstances of this case. 
The damage to Mr As car only happened because the car was stolen - at the time the 
accident happened, the car remained  stolen.  And the point of insurance  for theft is to cover 
the loss of the vehicle or the cost of repairing it if its recovered. So, I dont  think  its fair or 
reasonable to suggest this is a new claim that should be considered separately. Given  this, 
I cant say Mulsanne acted unreasonably here.
Ive noted that Mr A said he was sent a report form after the accident.  And I can understand 
why this gave  him the impression the accident  claim was being considered separately.  
But Mulsanne said this was an administrative error.  This mistake doesnt  change the facts of 
the case nor my views  on how the claim should  be considered. Im also satisfied Mulsanne 
explained this error  to Mr A when he brought it to their attention and so I dont think  
Mulsanne need to do anything  further  here. 
Ref: DRN82012624interview
As previously discussed, Mr A has raised  a number of concerns about the interviewers 
approach. Mulsanne  have  denied these allegations. 
Where evidence is conflicting, I need  to decide whats most  likely to have happened.
I think its likely the interviewer was aware  that Mr A was ill - Mr As statement mentions that 
his hospital is a saved location in the car sat nav. And I have no reason to doubt Mr As 
account that hed had treatment the day before the interview and was tired.
But Mulsanne said Mr A never  told their interviewer that he was too tired to continue.  
Ive noted that in his complaint letters  to both us and Mulsanne, Mr A has never  said the 
interviewer was explicitly told this. Just that the interviewer was aware of his illness and 
treatment the day before.  And I wouldnt expect Mulsanne to stop the interview unless  Mr A 
advised he wanted or needed to. 
Given all of this, I dont  think theres  enough  evidence to say the interviewer was aware Mr A 
was too tired to continue. And so, on balance, I cant say they did anything wrong here.  
Mr A has also said the interviewer fraudulently led Mr A to believe they were there to locate 
those responsible for the theft. But Ive noted  Mr A had already reported the theft to the 
police. So, he would  have  known the police were  looking  into this. And Mr A hasnt 
suggested the interviewer didnt identify  themselves  as from the insurance  company. 
I appreciate that Mr A may not have fully understood the interviewer was there to establish  
the facts, including whether Mr A had complied  with the terms and conditions.  But I dont 
think the evidence  indicates the interviewer intentionally or significantly misled Mr A. 
So, I cant say Mulsanne did anything wrong  here either.
Finally, I have noted the concerns raised about  Mulsanne seeking  advice from the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  prior to responding to Mr As complaints. I wanted  to take this 
opportunity to assure both parties that I reviewed the evidence impartially when  reaching  my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  I've given,  I don't  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8201262