K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about Hastings Insurance Services Limited. He isnt happy  about an 
administration charge applied when he made a change under his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr G took out insurance through Hastings  and half way through the policy  he placed another 
driver on cover. He was charged an increased premium and an admin  charge. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair and complained to Hastings and then this service. He thought  
that the admin charge  wasnt highlighted  in the policy  documentation  and that the charge 
was unfair.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G but didnt uphold  his complaint. She thought that 
Hastings £20 admin charge was outlined in its policy  documentation  and wasnt  unfair.
As Mr G didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld,  Ill explain why.
Hastings charged  Mr G a £20 admin  fee when he added a named driver to his policy. He 
feels that the fee is unreasonable and that he wasnt made aware  of it before he took out the 
policy. And he feels that the fee charged  is disproportionate to the admin involved in making 
the change.
I know Mr G feels  that the charge is unfair,  and he feels that he didnt get chance to disagree  
with the admin  charges before he took out cover. This was because he didnt get chance to 
opt out at the time of autorenewal. He says that the documents werent  sent to him in the 
post but were  available on a portal  online which he didnt get chance to review.  
But Hastings gave  Mr G opportunity to view all the documents before choosing  to renew. 
And if he was unsure,  he couldve taken steps to ensure he looked at the relevant 
documents. Furthermore, the renewal  invite  shows Mr G got in touch with Hastings in order 
to make an amendment to his details  before  taking  the policy, so Im satisfied that he had 
opportunity to consider the details  of his cover  and the relevant charges.
A lot of insurers and brokers charge admin  fees for changes to policies in any event. So, it is 
likely that he would  have  been charged  an admin fee if he placed someone  else on cover if 
he had chosen  to take out insurance  elsewhere in any event, so I dont think  he has been 
prejudiced here. Furthermore, Mr G already had a policy  through  Hastings and should have 
been aware of its charges. 
I know Mr G feels  that £20 is disproportionate  but I dont think that it is excessive. As Mr G 
has highlighted it isnt the role of this service to tell businesses what they can and cant  
charge or to involve ourselves in their commercial  decisions. 
Ref: DRN84114832Mr G feels that the fee is more like a penalty  charge and highlights  that Hastings hasnt 
given a breakdown of the costs incurred.  But it had to amend the policy, link into the insurer  
and provide updated documentation. And although  it hasnt  provided  a detailed breakdown 
of the costs incurred,  I dont think this feels unreasonable in the circumstances. 
As such,  I dont feel that Hastings charging a £20 admin fee for placing another driver on 
cover is unreasonable.  I say this as the rise in premium  was over £100  and the admin 
charge doesnt  feel unreasonable  when you consider that Hastings  had to undertake  some  
administration in order to change the policy and place a further  driver on cover.  And Im 
satisfied that the costs  were clear in the documentation which  Mr G was free to consider 
when he first took out the policy or upon  renewal.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8411483