K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr S bought the policy in 2006  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  Mr S has said he 
took out the policy by post. But Lloyds records show he applied for the mortgage and PPI 
policy in-branch. Im satisfied this was a sale by meeting.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  a little under £800 a month towards Mr S 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim - it would also pay out £3 for every  
£1,000 of mortgage Mr S took out at the outset. At the time,  it cost £33.25 a month. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a plumber. He has told us he was entitled to less than 
three months sick pay and three months redundancy pay. He has said he didnt have any 
savings or other means of repaying his mortgage  should he be unable to work. Mr S has 
said he had suffered from two medical conditions in the past.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2006, the PPI 
was cancelled in 2009 and the mortgage  account  ended in 2016.  
Mr Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr S representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr S representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr S and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN81493872The information Mr S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr S. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN81493873GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr S complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr S sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN81493874-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds has provided  us with copies of some of the paperwork from the time of the sale.  This 
includes an insurance fact find, Mr S mortgage offer letter and a PPI application  form. 
Looking at the paperwork and taking everything  into account, I think its more likely Mr S 
knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. I say this 
because:
The insurance factfind  the adviser appears  to have  completed with Mr S during the 
branch meeting records that, when asked  the question about  whether it was 
important to him to ensure his mortgage  payments could be met in the event of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, Mr S indicated it was.
Mr S completed and signed a separate PPI application form to agree to take out the 
policy - and a separate direct debit mandate  to allow  the premiums  to be taken  from 
his bank account.
The mortgage offer letter described PPI as being optional.  It also explicitly said that 
Mr S was not required to take out any insurance  with Lloyds as a condition of the 
lending  the only insurance  requirement  was for building insurance  to be in place.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Mr S hasnt indicated whether Lloyds advised  him to take out PPI. Lloyds says that advice 
was provided during  this sale. And looking at what happened  when Lloyds sold Mr S the 
PPI, I think  that it provided advice.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr S with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr S. The adviser had information  about  some of Mr S financial circumstances as part of 
the mortgage application. And they completed  a factfind document,  which asked some 
questions about  whether  Mr S had existing policies  he could use to meet  his mortgage  
payments. But the questions  appear limited - for example  theres nothing  to suggest Lloyds 
considered Mr S wider  circumstances  such as any health issues and whether he had other 
means such as sick pay and savings he could use to meet his mortgage payments if he was 
unable to work. So I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable.
Ref: DRN81493875Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr S given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr S, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr S ability to continue to meet  
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if he was not working  for 
an extended period of time  even  allowing for the redundancy benefits and sick pay 
he says he would  have been  entitled  to. Mr S didnt have any savings to fall back  on, 
and given he was solely  responsible  for the mortgage payments I think the policy 
would have helped  him manage  the consequences  if he was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr S.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr S. There  was 
nothing about  Mr S employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr S has told us about two 
conditions he had before the sale  one in 1970 which he has said caused him to 
take two weeks  off work; and another condition in 1980  which  he has said he took 
painkillers for but didnt  take any time off work for.
But these  things happened many years before the sale took place  more than 30 
years for the condition  Mr S said he took time off work for. Mr S hasnt said or 
indicated that either  of these things caused him problems again  or produced  lasting 
effects - so I dont think the limitations  around claims for existing medical conditions 
made the policy unsuitable for Mr S in his circumstances.
-There were  also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr S be disabled  or unemployed 
for 60 days before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
worthwhile cover given:
Mr S circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr S be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr S sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
Ref: DRN81493876recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr S was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr S would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be - 
Im mindful too that the factfind the adviser used during the meeting asked questions which 
wouldve given Mr S a sense of what the cover was.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr S agreed to take out the policy. The cost was set out in Mr S mortgage  
offer letter, but this wouldve been  sent to him after he agreed to take the policy  out; albeit I 
acknowledge the policy wouldnt  have  gone  live at this point.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr S, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr S all of the information he needed  
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr S representative has raised a number  of 
general points  in regard to the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr S. Ive considered  these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Ref: DRN81493877Im not persuaded by Mr S representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr S? To what extent did Mr S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr S. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr S suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr S would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr S, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr S has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr S would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr S says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr S had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ss circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Ref: DRN81493878Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr S knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy  he signed a separate direct  debit mandate to authorise  the debiting  of the 
premiums from his bank account - it doesnt appear Lloyds told him the exact premium  at the 
point Mr S applied for the policy. Having said that, as I indicated above  Mr S mortgage offer 
letter set out the cost clearly before the policy started  an important document which I think  
its reasonable to assume Mr S wouldve read and considered carefully given the nature  of 
the transaction he was undertaking. And he paid for the policy for around three years.  So if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he 
might have raised that with Lloyds at the time or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr S would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr S would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr S expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not that the policy actually  paid more in the event of a claim than he would have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms that Mr S 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy   albeit 
this only applied for the first 24 months of cover. 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
do his normal job or any gainful occupation  his experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr S pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr S circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr S told us he had suffered from two medical  
conditions in the past and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had he needed time off 
work because of this condition  (for the first 24 months  of cover only)  I dont think  better 
information about this exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. 
I say this because  as I said earlier, the conditions  Mr S told us about  happened many years  
prior to him taking out the policy, and he hasnt said or suggested  either of the conditions  
caused him problems  again or had lasting effects.  
Ref: DRN81493879So I dont  think Mr S would have reasonably thought  the main  reason hed need to claim on 
the policy would be for these things. Im mindful too that these  conditions  were only excluded 
for the first 24 months of cover  he couldve claimed for them after that. The policy  was also 
ultimately protecting his main asset,  so as I havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the other  significant  exclusions, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr S would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr S had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if he was unable (through disability) to carry on his normal  
job the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also, in all 
probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr S that any claim  he made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for. But 12 
months was a longer period than Mr S would  have received his sick pay for, and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr S would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings 
at a difficult and perhaps  uncertain time,  ensure his home was not placed at risk and might  
potentially help preserve  his sick pay or redundancy money for other ongoing household or 
fixed expenditure.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if he was made redundant, or unable to work 
through disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr S would have 
taken out the policy  in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr S representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN814938710Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr S would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr S 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr S compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr S thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2006 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr S representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr S and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN814938711my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8149387