K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold her a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her credit card repayments.
background
Mrs B applied for a credit card over the internet in 1999. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy to cover her credit  card repayments.  The policy cost £0.59 per £100  of the balance on 
Mrs Bs credit  card. A successful  claim  on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months  per claim if Mrs B was unable  to work due to accident  or 
sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld because  he thought Mrs B 
wouldve understood she had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mrs B disagrees. She says she wouldnt have actively selected to take the policy. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint.
The PPI was applied  for online when Mrs B applied for a credit card.  Canada  Square have 
given us a copy  of the screen shots  of the type of application form Mrs B wouldve  seen  and 
completed when  she applied for her credit card. 
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
this section it briefly explains what the cost of PPI is along with what  it protects against. 
Directly under this it gives the option to either select:
Yes, I would like to protect my repayments  against accident, sickness and 
unemployment; 
or 
No, I do not wish to protect my repayment 
Canada Square  say Mrs B wouldnt have been able to continue  with the application without 
selecting one of these options.  I think because Mrs B had PPI its likely she selected  to take 
PPI. If Mrs B didnt want to take out PPI she couldve selected  not to take the cover. So I 
think its likely Mrs B understood she had a choice in taking out the PPI and chose to take it 
because she wanted the cover.
Ref: DRN87940342Because the PPI was taken out over the internet I dont  think  Canada Square  advised Mrs B 
to take PPI. What  this means is that Canada Square  didnt recommend PPI to Mrs B, they 
just gave her information about PPI. This information needed to be given  in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so she could  make an informed choice about buying PPI.
Canada Square  say that enough information wouldve been given to allow Mrs B to make an 
informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. I can see the cost of the policy is 
shown on the application form. But I cant say whether  all the proper information needed was 
given. That being  said even if Canada Square did give all the information Mrs B needed to 
make an informed choice  on taking out the policy, I think  she wouldve still taken the policy  
because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
Mrs B says she was entitled  to sick pay and had another insurance policy she could use 
to make  her repayments  if she couldnt  work. But the policy  wouldve paid out on top of 
any work  benefits and insurance and for potentially longer. So I cant see how knowing 
this information  wouldve  put her off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs B and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it, which I note she did in 2003.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs B on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint  against Canada Square 
Operations Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8794034