K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in April 
2004
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
this sale. So, to keep  things simple, in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller.
Miss A says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case. 
Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss A has told us she was a student in full time education and wasnt  working in 2004 when 
she applied  for the store  card. This means she wouldnt  have been  eligible for the disability  
or unemployment cover, which would be the main benefits of taking out PPI. This means the 
PPI wouldnt be much use for her.
FICL should have  made this important information  clear to Miss A when it sold her the PPI. 
And I dont  think it did enough  to do this. While  the information may have been available   
the store card application  form says to refer to the customer copy of the credit agreement for 
more information   this wasnt enough  to highlight and draw  this information to Miss As 
attention.
I think its unlikely Miss A would have  bought  the PPI if shed realised she wouldnt be 
eligible for some the main  benefits. So, I think Miss A has lost out because of what FICL did 
wrong. 
putting things right
FICL should put Miss A in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Miss A would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss A owes  and what  she would 
have owed.
If Miss A made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
Ref: DRN80495552B.If  when FICL works  out what Miss A would have owed each  month without PPI  
Miss A paid more  than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Miss A paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when 
Miss A wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
C.FICL  should tell Miss A what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss As complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8049555