K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains that the motorbike he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) 
with Close  Brothers Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr H wants  compensation for the 
losses he says he has incurred.
Background
Mr H entered into a HPA with Close Brothers in November 2015 to acquire a new motorbike. 
He says that after only 2,000 miles the engine needed replacing and the brakes  failed. He 
says he returned  the motorbike for repairs in September  2017  and had to constantly chase 
for updates.
Mr H contacted Close Brothers about  the situation.  He says he said the motorbike wasnt  fit 
for purpose  and asked  for his payments  to stop until the repairs  were completed.  He says 
Close Brothers werent helpful and so he continued to pay for a motorbike he didnt  have use 
of while  also having  to sort out alternative transport.
Close Brothers says that Mr Hs agreement is covered  by the Consumer  Rights  Act (2015) 
and as he raised the issues  regarding his motorbike more than six months  after acquisition, 
it was his responsibility to provide evidence that the faults were present at the point  of 
supply. In its final response letter dated August 2018, it says it contacted the repairing 
garage which confirmed  repairs had taken place with just the mirrors requiring replacement 
and these had been ordered.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that when the repairs  were carried out the 
motorbike had been driven around 2,200 miles.  He said that several repairs had been 
needed and given the type of repairs needed  and the limited  mileage Mr H had covered he 
didnt think the issues were due to wear and tear but more likely due to an inherent fault 
present at the point of supply. Due to the limited use Mr H had before the issues  arose,  our 
investigator said that the motorbike wasnt sufficiently  durable. He also said the time taken to 
fix the motorbike  wasnt  satisfactory (noting the motorbike  was returned on 4 March 2019).
Our investigator said that in order to put Mr H back in the position he would have  been  had 
the motorbike  been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, he should be refunded the 
monthly rental payments from October 2017  to March 2019. He also recommended  that 
Mr Hs credit file be amended, and Mr H be paid £250 for the distress, inconvenience and 
loss of enjoyment he had suffered.
Close Brothers didnt  accept our investigators  view. It said that Mr H logged his first 
complaint regarding the head gasket failure only and that this was around two years after 
acquiring the motorbike.  It said that although the motorbike  had only been driven around 
2,000 miles it couldnt say how the motorbike had been driven. It said it needed further 
evidence to show the issues were the result of a fault present or developing at the point of 
supply. In August  2018, Close Brothers said that Mr H raised  another  complaint listing  
several different  issues. This was around 10 months  after the first complaint. It said these 
were new faults and again it didnt have evidence to say they were  present or developing at 
acquisition.
Close Brothers said that it asked Mr H to get an inspection report to show it was liable and 
that had this happened it would have ensured  the motorbike was booked  in for repair. It said 
Ref: DRN83676102it wasnt fair for it to be held liable for the length  of time take for repairs when it wasnt  
involved in this.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
The issues appeared to develop in or around  September 2017, less than two years 
after acquisition. The motorbike was new at acquisition and it would be expected that 
it would  last a reasonable  amount of time and be able to cover a reasonable mileage  
before any major issues arose.  As repairs were undertaken, an inspection  report 
wasnt a possibility and so I made  my decision based on the balance  of probabilities.
Mr H had driven the motorbike around 2,000  miles  before the issues  arose.  Major 
repairs were required. I noted  that some of the issues, such  as the brakes  could be 
wear and tear (issues can arise even if a motorbike isnt used much).  However,  I 
wouldnt have expected the issues with the head gasket and engine to have arisen  
after such a low amount  of mileage. Given this I found, on balance, it was more  likely 
than not that there were issues at the point of supply that resulted in the motorbike 
engine failing after a relatively low mileage and that the motorbike wasnt sufficiently 
durable.
An appropriate remedy in this case was repair. Repairs were undertaken and I had 
nothing to suggest these hadnt resolved  the issues. Therefore, I found that this part 
of the complaint had been addressed.
The outstanding  issue related  to the time Mr H was without  his motorbike and 
whether it was fair he was liable for the payments during  this period.
There were  two repair periods.  The first between September  2017 and August 2018  
when Mr H was told the motorbike was ready for collection  and Close Brothers  
issued its final response letter  based  on this information. The second was from this 
date until the motorbike was finally ready for collection in early  March 2019.
The issue that resulted in the delay from August 2018 was to do with a side stand 
switch failure. The repairing  garage said this was an unrelated  fault. In order to hold 
Close Brothers liable for this issue I would need  to establish that this fault arose due 
to a fault present at the point  of supply or was the result of the repairs undertaken. I 
didnt have this evidence and given the repair had been undertaken I didnt find that 
an inspection would  provide this. As I couldnt  link this issue to the issues  raised in 
2017, for which a final response was issued, I didnt find that Close Brother had the 
opportunity to consider this aspect to the complaint  and I didnt find that I could 
include this repair period in my decision.
The main repairs took place between September 2017 and August 2018. As I found it 
more likely than not that the motorbike wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply, I didnt think that Mr H should have been liable for the payments due for any 
reasonable amount of time that his motorbike was in for repairs.
The repair period  was extensive and so I considered what was fair regarding any 
refund of payments. Close Brothers  were initially told about issues  in October 2017 
and I thought it could have provided  Mr H with more support and information about 
Ref: DRN83676103his options at that time. This didnt happen and the complaint  at that time was closed. 
Close Brothers werent involved in the arrangement of the repairs  and werent made 
aware of the issues again until August 2018.  Therefore, they werent given any 
opportunity to assist  in the process or to mitigate  any delay.
Mr H said he chased for updates, but I had no further evidence of this. Given  the 
timescales involved I thought it reasonable that Mr H would have  acted to try to get 
the repairs undertaken sooner  and, given how long they were  ongoing,  he could have 
contacted Close  Brothers in between October  2017  and August  2018 to raise  his 
concerns.
Given the lack of opportunity Close Brothers had to arrange the repairs  or ensure 
these occurred in a timely  way, and without further evidence  from Mr H about the 
actions he took to mitigate the situation, I found  the fairest resolution was for the 
liability for the payments during the repair period of September  2017 to August 2018  
to be split between  the two parties.
Mr H was also caused inconvenience by being without  his motorbike and I agreed 
with our investigator's  recommendation  of £250 compensation because of this.
Close Brothers responded to my provisional  decision  saying that Mr H didnt use the 
motorbike for 12 months due to not having  passed his test and so the motorbike  was left for 
an extended period without being  serviced  or maintained which could  have contributed to the 
issues. It reiterated that evidence hadnt been  provided to show  the cause of the failure or 
exact mileage at the time. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H acquired  a new motorbike under a HPA. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act (2015), Close Brothers  can be held liable if the motorbike wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. As the motorbike was new at acquisition this would mean that it was free 
from faults, including minor defects,  and was sufficiently durable.
In this case the motorbike required major repairs less than two years  after acquisition  and 
after having  been driven around 2,000  miles. I note the comments about the motorbike  not 
being driven for the first 12 months and while I appreciate his could have an impact on its 
condition, I also note that by not being driven  this would reduce the wear and tear. 
On balance, as I set out in my provisional  decision, given the age of the motorbike  and the 
limited mileage that had been covered, I didnt think it should have experienced the issues it 
did. Major  repairs  were needed,  and I think these were more likely than not due to issues  
that were present or developing  at the point of supply.  I dont think the motorbike was 
sufficiently durable  and therefore  I uphold this complaint.
Repairs were carried out and this is reasonable remedy. When  a vehicle is found not to have 
been of satisfactory  quality it can be reasonable to refund any payments that were made 
while the consumer  was without the vehicle due to repairs. However, in this case, there are 
further issues to consider.
Ref: DRN83676104Close Brothers wasnt made aware of the extended period in which the motorbike was in for 
repair and so didnt  have the opportunity to mitigate this. Mr H said he chased the garage, 
but I didnt have further evidence to show what actions he had taken to ensure the repairs  
took place in a timely  way. As I set out in my provisional decision, the second repair  period  
arose after Close Brothers had issued its final response letter and the garage said it was due 
to an unrelated issue. I therefore considered  whether Close  Brothers should refund the 
payments between September 2017 and August 2018. In this case, due to the unique 
circumstances, I think  it fair that Close Brothers  refund Mr H half of the monthly payments for 
that period. 
Also, as set out in my provisional decision,  I think it fair that Mr H is paid compensation of 
£250 due to the distress and inconvenience caused by the issue he experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint. Close  Brothers Limited should:
refund  Mr H half of the 12 monthly  payments that fell due between September 2017  
and August 2018;
pay Mr H £250 compensation for the inconvenience he was caused;  and
remove any adverse information  that may have  been recorded  on Mr Hs credit file 
regarding this repair period.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8367610