K820x#14complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about an endowment policy she took out in 1991 with her Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mortgage.
background
In 2005 Miss M complained that the mortgage  endowment policy had been mis-sold. As the 
policy was sold at a time Halifax was tied to a particular endowment provider (which Ill call 
S) it was Ss responsibility to deal with the complaint. S upheld the complaint and offered 
compensation to Miss M. S chased  matters up in 2008 and 2009, and then in October 2009 
Miss M formally rejected  the offer. The endowment  policy matured in 2016.
In 2018 Miss M complained again about  the policy, with complaints to both Halifax and to S. 
Halifax said that S was responsible for dealing with the complaint. S initially couldnt  find 
details of the policy as Miss M had quoted an incorrect policy number,  but when the policy  
was traced  it said it had already dealt with a complaint in 2005.
Miss M then brought a complaint to us but only against Halifax.  It was considered  by one of 
our investigators who said that the endowment complaint had already been dealt with by S, 
as it should be. She said S was responsible  for dealing with any complaint, not Halifax. 
Miss M didnt agree so its been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has said:
I have been passed between the two organisations  with this matter  with neither party 
accepting any responsibility.
 both organisations appear to be able to pass the buck and avoid any 
accountability.
From the beginning of this complaint both parties have tried to pass  me to the other 
to avoid responsibility
Both parties have  acted with a lack of any professional integrity in dealing with this 
matter and their attempts to avoid responsibility
Im confused by those  allegations as theyre  not supported at all by the evidence provided. 
Both Halifax and S have  been clear in their correspondence - right back  to 2005 - that 
responsibility for dealing  with the complaint sits with S. S even upheld the complaint in 2005  
and offered compensation for the policy being  mis-sold. Theres certainly been no 
buck-passing or the two businesses trying  to pass the complaint between  themselves to 
avoid responsibility.  
The only time S didnt  immediately accept responsibility for the complaint was in 2018 when 
Miss M quoted an incorrect  policy number  so it was unable to trace her policy. Once  it had 
the correct policy number it told Miss M When the plan was sold Halifax was acting as an 
Ref: DRN83894552appointed representative of [S]. This means  that [S] is responsible for replying to any 
complaint you have about the sale of the plan.  
Miss M has said Halifax told her it was working with S on a collaborative  basis  to deal with 
complaints. I dont know exactly what was said but it seems like thats  a simple 
misunderstanding on Miss Ms part. Halifax will work with S when a complaint is made, but 
only insofar as it will pass complaints on and cooperate with any information requests made. 
It has absolutely no responsibility  to respond  to the complaint  itself as it has no liability  under 
the relationship  that was in place  at the time.
Both Halifax and S have  correctly accepted and informed Miss M that S is responsible for 
dealing with any complaint about  this policy. That is the correct stance however much 
Miss M may want Halifax to deal with it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept or reject 
my decision  before 20 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8389455