K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that Forex Capital  Markets Limited (FCML)  did not apply a 25% trading 
commission discount it offered/agreed  and that he was entitled to. He seeks  compensation, 
mainly for the alleged  excess commission taken by FCML from his account.
background
FCMLs position, in the main,  is as follows:
Prior to 30 May 2016 it applied a mark-up  of around 1 price interest point (pip) on the 
price spread in Mr Rs trades. After 30 May his account was moved to a trading 
commission based model and the pip mark-up arrangement no longer applied.
A discount based version of the commission model began to apply  to the account 
from 2 June 2018. It sent an erroneous email to Mr R on that date related to a 25% 
discount (email 1). Shortly thereafter,  on the same date, it sent him the correct  email 
(email 2) in which he was given notice of his account being upgraded to the Active  
Trader version of the commission  model  and given directions on how to view the 
applicable commission rates/the  Rate Card on the platform. The Rate Card  was 
based on discounts (from 16.6% to 33% to 50%) depending on the trade pair.
It calculated that a 38% commission discount has been applied to Mr Rs account 
since it was upgraded  to the Active Trader model   more than the 25% it initially and 
erroneously gave  notice about.  On this basis, it says it has done nothing wrong and 
that it has not applied excessive commission to the account.
Mr Rs position is rooted in the pip mark-up arrangement and is based  on a telephone call 
offer to him (which he says was agreed) from FCML in June 2016. He says FCMLs mark-up  
was 0.6 pips on the spread and that on a lot of 100,000 units this equated to USD6.00. The 
discount he says was agreed during  the call was 25% on the mark-up, so that resulted  in the 
reduced amount  of USD4.50.  Based  on this discounted rate and based on a spreadsheet 
provided by FCML, he says application  of the telephone call agreement results in a discount 
that was worth around USD33,000 more  than the discount  based on the Rate  Card. He says 
he cannot find the email(s) on which FCML relies and that his reliance was upon the 
telephone call discount agreement.  
One of our adjudicators considered the matter  and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. She made focused enquiries for evidence about  the relevant emails  and 
telephone call. She obtained the former but not the latter. FCML could not identify a 
telephone call recording for the call Mr R referred to and it maintains that, for the relevant 
period, the commission  basis had changed  away from the mark-up arrangement that he 
says was agreed in the call. The adjudicator concluded that, aside from FCMLs erroneous 
email about a 25% discount, the balance of available evidence supports FCMLs application 
of the Rate Card more  than it supports  Mr Rs assertion that the discounted USD4.50 mark-
up should have  been applied. The matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator noted, email 1 has been  conceded by FCML as an error and evidence  
does not show  that its content was applied to Mr Rs account  which  would also have been  
Ref: DRN81884512erroneous  so I am persuaded  that it holds no relevance to the complaint. There is 
evidence that email 2 was sent to Mr R on 2 June  2016, that it contained  information  about 
the commission arrangement FCML says was applied from that date and that it included  a 
link to the Rate Card. I have considered the Rate Card and its USD based commission rates 
 which  is relevant to Mr Rs USD based  account   for the different tradable pairs.  I have  
also compared this information with the spreadsheet that Mr R referred to, which  was 
provided by FCML and which appears to show complete commission charges  that is, for 
trade entries  and exits  for his trades.  The commission  charges applied  to his trades  appear  
to have been consistent with the relevant discounted commission rates in the Rate Card.
The above  is a summary of evidence in support of FCMLs position. I have considered and 
understood Mr Rs explanation  about how, in the alternative, the mark-up based 
arrangement he says he agreed with FCML would have increased  the value of the discount  
in the amount he has stated. Essentially, it appears  that instead of applying the relevant 
Rate Card commission twice (for trade entry and exit) per each 100,000 lot in a trade (pro-
rated for sizes in between) the arrangement he refers to is based  on multiplying the 
discounted mark-up  of USD4.50 by the number (pro-rated if necessary) of 100,000  lots in a 
trade. An example  is the first trade in the spreadsheet in which the relevant discounted 
commission of USD10.00 (that is, USD5.00 for entry and USD5.00 for exit per each 100,000 
lot) appears  to have  been applied to a trade  in which there  were  30.55 lots  the total 
commission was USD305.50. The discounted mark-up based method  results in less than 
half of that  that is, around USD137 based  on USD4.50 multiplied by 30.55 lots.
This complaint rises or falls on the weight  that can fairly be given to the notion that FCML 
telephoned and agreed with Mr R a commission arrangement that was different to the 
commission arrangement  confirmed in writing to him (and based on the Rate  Card). The 
obstacle to upholding Mr Rs complaint  is the lack of evidence of that agreement. FCML 
does not dispute that a telephone call between  itself and Mr R took place in June  2016.  
However, it cannot evidence the contents  of that call. I have noted Mr Rs testimony  about  its 
contents but that testimony conflicts with documentary evidence of notice to him about the 
discounted Active Trader  commission model and application of that model  (and the Rate  
Card) to his account  from 2 June 2016.  I note Mr R cannot find the relevant email but I am 
persuaded by evidence  that it was sent to him and I consider that if he had a different 
commission arrangement  with FCML at the time it is more likely (than not) that there would 
be record of him responding to say so. I have not seen such  record.
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that the Active Trader  commission  model and Rate  Card  
defined the commission  applied to Mr Rs account  and that it is more unlikely (than not) that 
FCML would  have  agreed to retain the mark-up  based arrangement for his account from 
June 2016 onwards despite having moved  the account away from that arrangement  in May 
2016. Evidence suggests that the commission applied to Mr Rs account was consistent with 
the Rate Card, so it was not subjected to excessive  commission in the manner alleged.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 21 March 2019.
Ref: DRN81884513Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8188451