K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr E. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy probably taken out in 1982. Bank of Scotland  
probably sold Mr E the policy at the same  time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sale seems to have  taken place about  37 years ago and so there  are no documents  
surviving about the sale of the PPI. I also wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail 
everything that happened that many years  ago when the PPI started.  Ive borne in mind  
these difficulties in the evidence when  considering  the case  and trying to reach  a fair 
decision. 
Ive considered what Mr E and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why.
Mr E says he never asked  for PPI and did not need it. However it wouldnt be fair for me to 
conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence. Where someone  
has said another person or organisation has done  something wrong,  fairness requires that 
they present evidence  that this probably  did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to 
prove they didnt  do something,  especially when it was such  a long time ago. So I cant  fairly 
conclude the PPI was mis-sold in this way. 
Bank of Scotland has worked  on the assumption that it recommended the PPI to Mr E  
which means it had to work to a higher standard by making sure the PPI fitted Mr Es 
individual needs and circumstances. But it doesnt  look as if the PPI was unsuitable  based  
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped pay the credit 
card bill for a period  longer than Mr Es full employer  sick pay lasted. And it would have paid 
out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr E more financially 
secure for longer. It would  have  meant  Mr E wouldnt need  to fall back on any other 
resources so soon   and it seems  he didnt actually have savings at the time. So, overall,  the 
PPI was potentially  useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant  see any other 
reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Bank of Scotland gave  Mr E about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But I dont  think, in his circumstances, full information about costs and benefits would 
have affected  whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt look like hed have been affected by 
any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
Ref: DRN84708542This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E. But 
Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr E about that. Because Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell Mr E, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  8 November 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8470854