K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001 during a meeting.  This was a joint policy,  which  covered Mr and Mrs G equally  and was 
added to their existing mortgage.  Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland  plc - trading  as 
Birmingham Midshires - (BoS) mis-sold  them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
BoS shouldve  made  Mr and Mrs G aware  they had an option in taking out the PPI. Mr and 
Mrs G say they werent aware the policy had been  added. 
Mr and Mrs G had held their mortgage  with BoS for over three years before the policy  was 
added. So as their mortgage already existed I dont think  it will have been presented as a 
requirement of getting the mortgage. 
BoS has sent us a copy of the letter Mr and Mrs G received outlining  the offer of the policy, 
where it describes  the cover that has been  opted   which was unemployment cover only.  So 
this suggests  there was a selection  of options presented to Mr and Mrs G and they selected 
the cover  that best suited their circumstances. 
So, based  on all the evidence I have, I think BoS most likely made it clear to Mr and Mrs G 
that they had a choice about taking the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs G chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they cant remember this.
BoS recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs G. So it had to check  it was right for them. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances they seem to have had a need  for the cover.  
Neither of them was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mr and Mrs G say they would have received a generous amount of sick pay benefits from 
their employers and the policy wouldnt cover them for time off work due to bad backs or 
stress. But the policy only provided  cover if they became unemployed so these points arent 
relevant. It doesnt look like they had any other  means  such  as savings  that they could 
have relied upon if Mr and Mrs G lost their jobs. So it seems they had a need for the policy. 
Mr and Mrs G were taking  out cover for borrowing against a large and long term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think having the security that their 
mortgage repayments would be made if either  of them were  made  redundant would have 
been important  to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  BoS gave 
Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But Mr and Mrs G chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of cover.  And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks  like the policy would  have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. 
Ref: DRN84056622This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything    
Mr and Mrs G paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs G back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand BoS has already 
paid this to Mr and Mrs G.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019. 
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8405662