K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way that National House-Building  Council (NHBC)  has handled 
ongoing repairs to his property under his Building  Warranty. 
background
Mr D first reported  a claim to NHBC in September 2014, following the builders failure to deal 
with a number  of issues with his new build  property. NHBC took over responsibility for the 
repairs in March and April 2015.  Mr D has previously  brought complaints to this service 
about the claim. I issued decisions in November 2016 and March 2017. In those  decisions I 
awarded compensation, following on from NHBCs  offers, of respectively £850 and £1,100. 
In the later decision I also issued directions as to the future conduct of the case.
Mr Ds complaints relate to matters  set out in NHBCs final decision letters of 2 October, 10 
November and 8 December 2017.  NHBC has also issued three other final decision letters, 
but for reasons I shall explain, I wont be looking the issues dealt with in those letters.  Mr Ds 
complaints relate to a number of issues as to how the repairs  were dealt with, how the 
contractors behaved  and customer service issues. For all those issues NHBC has offered a 
total of £3,100. Some repairs are still ongoing and I understand that NHBC has offered cash 
settlements some of which Mr D has accepted. To the extent that Mr D may be unhappy with 
those cash offers or about  other issues since a final response letter of 1 July 2018, I wont be 
considering those matters, although  Mr D is free to complain about them to NHBC and, if not 
resolved, to this service.
On review of the complaints our investigator  calculated that NHBC had offered  a total of 
£3,850 for the issues dealt with in the final response letters from 18 May 2017  onwards. She 
thought that its offers  were  reasonable. 
Mr D didnt agree and pointed out that he had already accepted  NHBCs offers in their letters  
of 18 May 2017 and of 20 February and 11 July 2018. This brought  NHBCs overall offers in 
respect of his complaints down to a total of £3,100.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I accept Mr Ds point that he has accepted offers made in the letters  I have referred 
to. This means that he accepts those  as a fair resolution of the complaints  dealt  with in those 
letters, and I wont be looking at those  issues  any further.
Secondly, as Ive set out, I have  previously issued decisions dealing with Mr Ds earlier 
complaints. Whilst I understand his desire to look at NHBCs  conduct  of his claims as a 
whole, I cant take account of any issues dealt  with in those decisions.  I will only be 
considering the issues  dealt  with in NHBCs letters of 2 October, 10 November and 8 
December 2017.
Thirdly I should observe that we are an alternative  dispute resolution service. Our role is to 
resolve matters informally and fairly. I wont be going through  very individual point Mr D has 
raised but rather, as our investigator has done I will look at the major issues of complaint and 
Ref: DRN87488582consider whether NHBCs offers were in my view reasonable.  I have however read and 
considered all of Mr Ds representations and will be taking them into account.
roof inspection
Mr D is unhappy that a roof inspection was arranged without his authority. And he was 
disturbed that the roofers gained access to his roof and carried out repairs  without his 
knowledge.
Clearly NHBC  should have told Mr D about this before arranging  the roof inspection/repair, 
however well intentioned. Fortunately  no damage  was done so whilst  I recognise Mr Ds 
distress at this, I cant award  compensation  for what might have happened.
access to the meter box
Mr D complains that the subcontractors  tried to break into his meter box with pliers and that 
they left the keys in the box so that anyone could  have had access. He says NHBC hasnt 
adequately explained what happened nor whether they would have covered him. I can 
understand Mr Ds distress at this. But as our investigator rightly pointed  out, whether a 
criminal offence was committed  is a matter for the police. NHBC hasnt been able to say 
specifically whether the subcontractors actually broke into the box. Though it did apologise 
for late notification of no-one  being in attendance thus potentially  making  his insurance void. 
It says the incident  was a one-off. Again I cant award compensation for what might have 
happened. I accept that it must  have  been  very alarming.  This was part of the complaints 
dealt with in NHBCs December 2017 letter, for which it offered £1,800 compensation.
patio doors
Mr D complains that when his patio doors were repaired, part of the door was initially 
missing, leaving it open. Mr D was concerned that his insurance  had become  invalidated  and 
had to spend two nights  there sleeping on a mattress. NHBC apologised and paid Mr D for 
the cost of a mattress and £80 for take away food. Again  whilst  I agree  this was 
unacceptable, fortunately Mr D didnt have to make a claim.  This issue was also considered 
in NHBCs December 2017 letter.
unpaid leave
Mr D complains that he had to waste 9 days annual leave. He wasnt  able to move back  into 
his property and because of NHBCs agents error,  he had to move between  different places 
to stay. Because of the nature of his job, he wasnt able to cancel annual leave at short 
notice. He had provided his schedule  to the agents.  I note that NHBC apologised and offered 
Mr D a payment of £156 for unpaid leave. It also apologised  for the miscommunication. I 
think this was a reasonable way of dealing with this.
appointment of independent expert
Mr D complains that, following on from my previous decision, NHBC failed to appoint  an 
independent expert  in the away set out in my decision  but instead appointed  a surveyor  it 
chose. As our investigator  advised Mr D this is a matter  of enforcement of my decision, 
which we dont get involved with. I would observe that although  NHBC accepted it didnt 
appoint an expert in the manner set out in my decision, it did offer to do so.
Ref: DRN87488583other issues
NHBC accepted that the contact surveyor should  have  visited more  regularly.  And that Mr D 
was at times  kept poorly informed  about  what was going on. There were misunderstandings  
about the hallway repairs which were declined  at first even though  it had been  agreed the 
floor would have  to be opened up, which wasnt done. NHBC later accepted this. There  was 
an overall lack of customer service.
health issues
Mr D says the whole matter has affected his health.  He has produced letters  from his doctor  
and consultant. And I can understand  that the whole matter was very stressful for him. I 
nevertheless have to take into account  that I considered his health issues in my decision in 
March 2017. So I can only consider  how the matters dealt with in this decision affected his 
health. And it appears that the major  thing  for Mr D to move forward  is to have his property 
repairs resolved. I should observe that NHBC isnt responsible for the property  needing so 
many repairs   the effect of the warranty is that NHBC will pay for repairs  covered under the 
terms of the warranty but doesnt guarantee the property will be free from problems. So 
although I accept  the issues Ive outlined  will have added to Mr Ds anxiety, I think  there 
were other factors involved for which NHBC isnt responsible. 
compensation
In total, for the period I am considering, NHBC offered to pay compensation of a total of 
£3,100. I have considered carefully whether NHBC should pay Mr D any more compensation 
for this including private medical treatment. However I think  the amount offered for the period 
in question by NHBC for the complaints dealt with in its final response  letters is fair and 
reasonable. It comes  into the severe category in our scale  of awards.  If Mr D wants  to 
accept the offers made  by NHBC he should approach it directly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive stated, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8748858