K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about two cash machine  withdrawals made abroad using a pre-payment  
card issued by Wirecard  Card Solutions  Limited. He says that on two occasions  the cash 
machine didnt dispense any money,  but his account was still debited.
background
Mr W was on holiday in Greece. He says that on 31 May 2018 and on 3 June 2018 he used 
the same  cash machine  to withdraw €300. On both occasions  the cash  machine didnt 
dispense any cash.
About a month  later, after hed returned  to the UK, Mr W says that he was checking his 
accounts. Because he couldnt find the information he wanted by checking his accounts 
online, he contacted Wirecard; it was only then that he found out that his account balance  
was lower than he was expecting. He identified the two cash machine withdrawals  and said 
that he hadnt received the money from the machine.
Wirecard obtained information from the cash machine operator. It said this showed the 
machine had in fact dispensed the cash  correctly on each occasion. So, having  applied a 
temporary credit to Mr Ws account, Wirecard removed it. This left Mr W owing money  to 
Wirecard. He complained,  first to Wirecard and then to this service.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ws complaint. He said that he found Mr Ws account 
of events plausible.  And he wasnt persuaded that Wirecard had provided sufficient evidence  
to show that the cash had been properly dispensed  on each occasion. He recommended  
that Wirecard refund the money. Wirecard didnt however accept  the investigators 
recommendations and asked  that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different  outcome  from that reached by the 
investigator, I issued  a provisional decision. 
I said in my provisional decision that he main factual issue I needed to consider was the 
fairly straightforward question of whether  the cash machine had properly dispensed the cash  
or not. In order to answer  that question, I was largely reliant on the evidence  supplied by the 
cash machine operator (which wasnt Wirecard). 
I explained that I thought  the evidence indicated  that the cash  machine had, after all, 
correctly dispensed  the cash on the two occasions  Mr W had used it. Its records showed the 
denominations of notes counted and presented by the machine and the exact time at which  
the notes were collected. The records of Mr Ws use of the machine, as well as the records 
of transactions  made by other customers at around  the same  time, indicated that the 
machine was working correctly. 
I considered too whether it was possible that Mr W hadnt collected the cash, but that 
someone else had. However,  the records indicated that the cash  had been taken from the 
machine within  three and ten seconds of being presented;  I didnt think  someone else had 
taken it, and it hadnt been  retrieved  by the machine. I noted  too that Mr W had made 
balance enquiries  on each occasion  hed used the machine.  
Mr W didnt accept my provisional findings.  He said that hed made balance enquiries when 
hed used the cash machine but that the prints  were of poor quality, so he kept them  to 
check on his return from Greece;  he didnt get receipts for the withdrawals. Mr Ws account  
Ref: DRN84607572statements show that his recollection of when  he loaded the card with cash is correct; they 
also show  as he says  that he used  a different cash machine to make subsequent cash  
withdrawals.               
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said in my provisional decision, much  
of the key evidence here has been  provided  to Wirecard by the cash machine operator. It 
includes some  information about other customers transactions, and so Im not able to share  
it with Mr W; I did however summarise it in my provisional decision. 
In respect of the transaction  on 31 May 2018, the cash machine records  indicate that 
another customer made a withdrawal about a minute before Mr W used  the machine. They 
show too that Mr W requested €300 and that six €50 notes  were  presented  by the machine  
at 20:19:11; they were taken from the machine three  seconds later. Less  than a minute later, 
the records show that Mr Ws card was used again  to make a balance enquiry, with a printed 
receipt.
There was a further withdrawal around 15 minutes  later, again by a different customer. The 
records indicate that cash was dispensed without any problem.
The records  on 3 June  2018 show a similar pattern. The machine was used by another 
customer a few minutes before Mr W used  it. When Mr W used the machine, its records 
indicate that it presented five €20 notes  and four €50 notes at 19:41:13; they were taken ten 
seconds later. A different customer used the machine less than a minute later,  apparently 
without any problem.
The cash  machine records  show as well the number of notes of each denomination that 
should have been in the machine after each withdrawal. Theres no discrepancy on either  
date. On each  occasion,  therefore,  the cash machine records indicate  not only the amount 
requested by Mr W, but the exact  time (to the second) that the cash  was dispensed, 
presented by the machine  and collected. They also show the denominations of notes 
dispensed. They do the same for other  customers who were using the machine at around 
the same  time. I think its more likely  than not, therefore, that the cash was dispensed. 
I cant entirely rule out the possibility that the cash machine was faulty, but I think thats 
unlikely. Its own records indicate it was functioning  correctly; its unlikely too that Mr W would 
have been the only customer affected by any fault, but the cash machine operator didnt 
suggest there were  any other reported problems.  In the circumstances, I think it more  likely 
than not that the cash was correctly dispensed on both occasions. It wouldnt therefore be 
fair to require Wirecard to make a refund.   
my final decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  require Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ws complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject  my decision before 7 June 2020.
Ref: DRN84607573Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8460757