K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the suitability of Insight Financial Associates Limiteds advice  to 
set up a SIPP in 2009 to facilitate an investment  in an overseas property investment in Cape  
Verde.  He said that the investment was of a higher level of risk than was suitable  for him. 
background
Mr H was given advice  by Insight regarding a SIPP in 2009. There is an Insight Financial 
Planning Report  dated 28 September 2009 which contained a recommendation as to which 
SIPP to use so that a property  investment in Cape Verde could be made.  
Mr H complained to Insight. Mr Hs representative said that he had a moderate tolerance for 
investment risk and Mr H was led to believe this was a medium risk investment and the risks 
of illiquidity were not explained to him. 
Insight did not uphold the complaint. It said that it was not responsible  for advising  on the 
investment to be held in the SIPP and the decision to purchase it had already been taken 
following discussions with his mortgage/financial adviser. It only provided  advice on a 
suitable SIPP to hold the investment. It also said that Mr H had a high attitude  to investment 
risk.  It thought its advice  as to the SIPP was appropriate. 
When Mr H referred  his complaint to their service, Insight said he had complained too late 
and his complaint  would not fall within my jurisdiction.  I then issued a decision setting out 
that I did have  jurisdiction to consider this complaint because it was referred  within the 
applicable time limits. An investigator then considered the merits of the complaint. He 
thought it should be upheld. In summary  he said Insight had an obligation  to take into 
account the suitability of both the SIPP and investment   as they could not be separated. 
Bearing that in mind  he thought the advice unsuitable. It placed  too much  of Mr Hs money  at 
high levels  of risk. 
Insight did not accept the investigators assessment. It said that Mr H had purchased  another 
Cape Verde investment  with cash  and this took place  more than a year before the SIPP 
investment. The SIPP  investment  was taken out (again) through  his close friend,  the 
Resort Group agent, and Mr H received a significant  discount on the purchase price.  His 
agent also received  a large commission. When the property  completed, Mr H received a very 
large discount on the price. Insight said he saved around 70,000  Euro. 
Insight later reiterated that Mr H had made  two property investments in Cape Verde. The first 
was a cash purchase and the second  was through his pension plan. He received a 
significant incentive in the form of a reduced  purchase price and the agent involved received 
a significant commission.  It said it was aware of some instances  of this commission being 
passed onto the investor   although  it couldnt say whether  this happened here. Mr H paid 
the full price of the investment and it would have completed in 2014/15. It questioned 
whether Mr H was unhappy with this investment. And given a significant discount achieved  
on the first cash purchase, questioned why he had complained. 
Insight also said, in summary:
Mr H was already a client of the business  that was an agent for The Resort Group. 
He dealt with an individual  at The Resort Group agent. 
Ref: DRN82821292The agent would have known the implications of using a SIPP  to purchase the Cape  
Verde properties.   
The agent was not regulated so was not able to advise on investing in the SIPP  
which is why he was referred to Insight.
The main reasons for investing in the SIPP was tax mitigation.
The agent would have given Mr H details of the expected return  on the investments  
this was a considerable amount more than received  by Mr Hs SIPP.
As Mr H removed  Insight as his advisers in 2011  Insight could  not review  the SIPP, 
especially as the alert issued by the FCA in 2013 was after this date. Insight were  
asked to find a suitable pension provider  as Mr H had already agreed to the purchase 
when completing  the reservation form. The reservation form was completed  on 24 
August 2009  Insight was not involved until September 2009. 
The SIPP was only being  considered because of the property investment  but Mr H 
made it very clear  that he was wishing to invest in the property and he needed to 
address his and his companys tax burden. 
The Fact Find referred to Mr H being a high risk investor. He was also aware of the 
risk of the investment given this was his second  investment  in Cape Verde.   
The agent was mentioned in the Fact Find as being responsible for protection  and 
insurances and to deal with recommendations  for such. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I believe it is clear  that Mr H met with a Resort Group agent who introduced him to the idea 
of investing in Cape Verde property.  However,  as Insight has said, Mr H was then referred  to 
Insight so that he could receive advice as to the SIPP to be set up to allow that investment to 
be made. 
A Fact Find was completed. This set out that that Mr H was 53 and a Design Engineer. He 
was a Director of his own company.  He had income of about £53,000 a year and had cash 
accounts of about £12,000. He had no pension savings at the time. It was also discussed 
that Mr H wanted to invest in Cape Verde  property through his pension  due to the tax 
benefits and to obtain high capital growth.  
It was recorded  that the Resort Group agent  was his adviser in respect of insurance  
products. 
His attitude to risk was:
Score 9-10  High risk  you are prepared to accept the high risk attached to extremely 
volatile investments that can both fall and rise substantially.
The recommendation was to start a SIPP, to purchase Cape Verde property .
Ref: DRN82821293Mr H signed the Fact Find on 28 September 2009. 
Insight issued a Financial Planning Report  dated  28 September  2009. It was set out that:
You were introduced to me from The Resort Group with whom you have purchased  a Cape 
Verde commercial property. You have  decided to purchase and fund this through  the 
information given  by The Resort Group via a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). You 
have requested my advice and recommendation in only finding the most suitable SIPP 
provider that will enable  you to purchase this property and I can confirm I have not provided 
you with advice or recommendation in relation to the SIPP  being the most suitable  vehicle  to 
facilitate the property acquisition.
As Insight  sets out, Mr Hs recorded priorities were to make  tax efficient pension 
contributions to boost  his retirement income.  A contribution  was to be made  to the SIPP 
sufficient to pay the deposit for the Resort Group property.  It was mentioned that no advice 
had been provided about the purchase  of the Cape Verde property. 
Mr Hs attitude to risk was confirmed as:
Score 9-10 High Risk
You are prepared to accept the risk attached  to extremely volatile investments that can both 
fall and rise substantially.
I have made  you aware that the purchase  of a SIPP  and utilising only the investment of a 
commercial property such as your Cape Verde  property will increase the risk level of your 
investment as factors such as the lack of liquidity of the property asset and you have only 
one asset class. You stated this is suitable to fulfil your objective  of purchasing the Cape 
Verde property and are aware  of the associated  risks involved.
Mr H invested about £64,000 from his company into a holiday resort  in Cape Verde. This 
was an unregulated collective investment scheme.  I note that he had already invested in 
another similar property  investment  in Cape Verde  this was a cash  investment and did not 
involve his pension.  
Insight recommended a particular  SIPP so Mr H could make  the property investment. 
Mr H has made some  comment  about how he came to make the investment and his 
relationship with the Resort Group  agent. He said that the agent  was not a friend but worked  
at the same  office  as his accountant. He said that he met the agent at a social  function  and it 
was possible that this was where  the investment was first discussed. 
the scope of the advice
Insight has said that it was not providing advice on the investment, only the SIPP. But it did 
know the intention  was to invest into The Resort Group overseas property. It has said that it 
did not have to consider the suitability  of the investment  itself.   
Insight had a duty under  the relevant  rules,  in particular COBS  2 and COBS 9, set out 
previously by the FSA and now Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA),  to act in Mr Hs best 
interests, know its client and give suitable  advice. In my view it could not so without  taking 
account of the investment which the SIPP was put into place to facilitate. The only reason for 
Ref: DRN82821294the creation of the SIPP was to enable the overseas property investment to take place  the 
Insight adviser knew this and has made statements to that effect  in his report  about the 
advice he gave. 
Insight said it was The Resort Group  agent  that advised Mr H to invest  in The Resort Group 
property and I agree that the evidence  suggests that the agent  did introduce Mr H to the idea 
of investing in the property. However,  Insight  was the regulated party  that provided the 
advice as to the SIPP  and, as discussed,  had a duty to assess  the suitability of the 
investment. 
Im also mindful that in January  2013,  the FSA issued an alert:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investment  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen advisers moving customers retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The cases  we have  seen  tend to operate under a similar advice model. An introducer  will 
pass customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated investment (e.g. 
an overseas property development).  When the customer expresses an interest  in the 
unregulated investment, the customer is introduced to a regulated  financial adviser to 
provide advice on a SIPP  capable of holding the unregulated  investment.  The financial 
adviser does not give advice  on the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable  of holding the unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated  
financial adviser also assists the customer to unlock  monies held in other investments so 
that the customer is able to invest  in the unregulated investment
 where a financial  adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer  out 
of a current pension  arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas property 
investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form 
part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If, taking into 
account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, including  
its underlying holdings, is more suitable  for the customer then the SIPP  is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment 
in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated  elements  from the regulated 
elements.
 The FSA asks regulated firms,  in particular financial adviser  and SIPP Operators to report 
those FSA firms  that are carrying  on these  activities in breach of the FSA requirements
This alert didnt make any changes to the regulations,  it was not new regulation that had not 
applied previously. It simply re-stated the principles that already applied, and which were in 
place in 2009 when the advice was given.
My view is not dependent on comments  made  by the industry regulator as to the type of 
process Insight carried out to facilitate the investment. I take an independent view based on 
the circumstances of the complaint and take into account the rules, law and good  practice  in 
place at the time to arrive at decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But 
my view is consistent with general comments from the regulator about  this type of process  
Ref: DRN82821295that consideration should be given when advice  is given to transfer a SIPP,  to the suitability 
of the overall proposition  both SIPP and investment to be taken out. 
The regulators comments refer directly to the situation here  where advice is being given 
about a SIPP to invest in overseas property. It said that where  an adviser recommends a 
SIPP knowing that the customer will invest in overseas property then the suitability of that 
investment must be taken  into account.   
I would reiterate that I do not agree  that simply because the regulators alerts were  given 
after Insight  gave its advice that they are irrelevant  all the alerts did was highlight  the 
existing obligations  (which applied at the time this advice was given) when giving advice 
such as this. It was not setting out new standards for businesses  to follow.
So my view is that Insight  did have to take into account and advise on the specific suitability 
of the investment as well as the overall  arrangement of SIPP and investment.
suitability 
As discussed, Insight  could not give suitable advice on the combined SIPP and investment 
without taking into account the investment itself.  
I note Insights reference to Mr H starting  the SIPP and making the investment to benefit 
from tax reliefs. However the crucial issue is that he did not have to invest  in the Resort  
Group or property to do that. He could have invested in a very wide range of investments. So 
that is not a reason to justify the investment in The Resort Group.  
An Attitude  to risk profile  is recorded  as High  Risk which  seems  to be derived from the 
results of a risk questionnaire.   
Mr H was a Design Engineer, earning about £53,000 a year. It is recorded that he had very 
modest cash assets. He did not have any risk-based investments such as ISAs, shares or 
unit trusts.  He did not have any experience  of high risk or unregulated investments  apart 
from another Resort  Group property that he had been persuaded to buy relatively  shortly  
before this advice  was given.   
So, apart from the investment in The Resort Group, Mr H didnt have  any investments of an 
aggressive or high risk nature.  In fact it seems  he had no experience of risk based 
investments at all.
It does not seem to be disputed that Mr H approached Insight with the property investment in 
mind. But that was as a result of a promotion of that investment to him by The Resort Group 
agent  Mr H had not arrived  at this decision on his own. 
The property investment was an off plan  unregulated speculative overseas property 
investment. It was an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). It was high risk 
and the investor  faced  the real possibility  of losing all their money. Because  it was 
unregulated Mr H did not benefit  from the protection afforded by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.  
Mr Hs circumstances do not indicate that he was prepared to lose all his money in the 
pension scheme  or that he could do so. They also do not indicate that he was suited  to the 
risks this investment presented. 
Ref: DRN82821296The risk grading itself, which may or may not be accurate,  is very much out of line with Mr 
Hs circumstances and experience. It should  be noted that Mr H has subsequently said his 
attitude to risk was medium.
In any event, this risk grading is one part of an assessment of suitability and does not 
necessarily mean that an investment was suitable  for Mr H.
Mr Hs investment experience was very limited  and does not suggest that he was an 
experienced investor who could appreciate all the risks of what he was doing or would not be 
reliant on Insight to give him suitable  advice or consider his best interests.  
Mr Hs contribution to the SIPP was the only pension savings he had at the time. And it was 
by far the largest sum of savings of any kind that he had. The material  issue  is that the 
majority of that money was designated for investing in The Resort Group property. That put 
most of his pension savings at high risk, or total loss. 
As discussed, Insight  knew that Mr H was intending  to invest his pension funds in overseas 
property. In my view Insight should  have  been  aware that this investment was unsuitable for 
Mr H. It presented far too high a risk for Mr H and put the majority of his pension  savings at 
risk.
       
Clearly, the evidence indicates that Mr H was not the more sophisticated and professional 
type of investor  for which UCIS would be suitable;  the risks of the investment are far higher 
than were suitable for him and they were of a nature that was not appropriate for him.  
Bearing all this background in mind, I do not believe  there  is any persuasive evidence  that it 
was appropriate  for Mr H to take the risks of investing in The Resort  Group  Property, which  
put his retirement  income and benefits  at much greater risk. His circumstances suggest that 
it was not suitable to take these risks with so large  of proportion of his pension  benefits. He 
seemingly had no experience of investments  and no history of taking these kind of risks. 
Therefore I believe the investment was clearly  unsuitable. 
did Insight  cause Mr Hs loss
As discussed, Insight  should not have  facilitated  the pension  investment based on what it 
knew about Mr H. And also, if Insight had advised  Mr H that this investment was not in his 
best interests and unsuitable for him, I think it more likely that he would have taken  account  
of that advice and it would have  been persuasive, coming from a professional regulated  
financial adviser. I think it is more likely  that he would not have invested and this advice 
would have changed his motivation to invest in The Resort Group. 
It follows that he would not have invested  in The Resort Group  within his SIPP. 
Consequently any loss Mr H has suffered  through  investing in The Resort Group property 
has been caused materially by Insight.
I recognise that Mr H approached Insight with the investment in mind but I am not persuaded 
by the evidence that Mr H would have  gone on to invest anyway, if Insight had advised 
against it. Mr H has said that The Resort Group agent was not a friend but someone  he met 
in a social context.  I note he had signed  a reservation form for the property but I do not 
believe he was committed to buying the property  and could  have declined  to proceed if 
Ref: DRN82821297Insight had advised against  it. I also note that he had purchased  another Resort Group 
property previously. But that does not mean that he was set on making another  such 
investment  and this only made  it more important  that Mr H was advised against placing all 
his eggs in one basket by investing so much of his money in an unregulated overseas 
property scheme. Mr H did receive  an initial discount on the price of the property but I am not 
persuaded this is sufficient to have induced him to invest against the advice of Insight, had it 
advised against the investment. 
I appreciate that Insight  was removed as Mr Hs adviser a few years after the advice  was 
given. But by that point the investment had been  made and the loss flows from the original 
advice. 
In this particular  case, I conclude  that it would be fair and reasonable to make  an award, 
given the specific  circumstances. I am satisfied that Mr H would not have made the 
investment had it not been for the failings of Insight. Had Insight  acted correctly  in respect of 
Mr H, the investment would not have been made.  As a direct  result of the Insight failings, 
Mr H invested his pension  into a specialised, unregulated investment with a limited track 
record.  
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold Insight responsible for the whole of the loss 
suffered by Mr H. I am not asking Insight  to account  for loss that goes beyond the 
consequences of its failings. I am satisfied those failings have caused  the full extent of the 
loss in question. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr H's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Insight  do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Insight must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Insight should  add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Insight  should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Insight is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should  pay that 
Ref: DRN82821298amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according  to his likely income  tax rate in retirement  
 presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
Pay to Mr H £200 for the upset and inconvenience caused by having  an unsuitable 
and illiquid investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Insight deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been  taken off. Insight should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The Resort  
Group 
investmentstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Insight should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Insight is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. Insight may require that Mr H provides an undertaking to pay 
Insight any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. Insight will need to meet  any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN82821299Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Insight totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment ris
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr H's circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Insight  Financial  Associates Limited  should  pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
Insight Financial Associates Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to Mr H in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H either to 
accept or reject my decision  befor e 8 November 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8282129