K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs  handling of a chargeback claim. She says it 
made mistakes and caused delay and, as a result,  she hasnt had the refund she believes 
shes entitled to. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 14 October  2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  Both sides to the dispute have seen my 
provisional decision on this case. I wont repeat all the details here, but will give a brief 
summary.
Mrs S was unhappy with Barclays handling  of her chargeback. She felt this resulted in the 
chargeback failing so she wanted  Barclays to refund her the amount she paid for the car and 
for the cost of the repairs  she had carried out.  
In my provisional decision I was minded to uphold  the case. So I asked Barclays to refund  
the difference between what Mrs S paid for her car (£9,500) and what she sold it for 
(£4,550). I also asked  Barclays to refund the cost of the repairs  Mrs S needed to carry out to 
get the car in a roadworthy  condition. I felt Barclays should also add 8% simple interest to 
both of these amounts.  I also felt Barclays should pay £350  compensation and add 8% 
simple interest to the compensation if it takes more  than a month to pay this to Mrs S. 
Since I issued my provisional  decision Mrs S has said she accepts my findings and that she 
has already received the £350  compensation. Barclays has confirmed its received my 
provisional decision. It says its happy to pay for the repairs Mrs S made to her vehicle and 
the £350 compensation. But it doesnt feel it should  have to pay the difference between  what 
Mrs S paid for the car and what it was sold for. It says Mrs S originally asked to charge back  
£500 and has paid for repairs  which made the car roadworthy so she didnt  have to sell it. 
And because she part exchanged the car when she sold it she would have  got less than 
market value. Barclays feels  it shouldnt  be held liable for the depreciation of the vehicle and 
Mrs Ss choice  to sell it as a part exchange.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Barclays has said. Having done so, my view remains  the 
same that Barclays needs to pay the difference between what Mrs S paid for the car and 
what she sold it for. 
Mrs S did originally ask for £500 as a chargeback.  But I believe when Mrs S called to raise 
the issue with Barclays she was clear about  what the problem was  and it was Barclays 
responsibility to explain  that a chargeback for a partial refund was bound to fail. Had it done 
so, Im satisfied Mrs S would  have  asked to charge back the full amount - £9,500.
I note Barclays has said Mrs S could have kept the vehicle after completing the additional 
repairs. But selling it was her decision to make. And its not unreasonable  for Mrs S to part 
exchange her car even  if this may have led to her getting less than the market value at that 
time.
Ref: DRN89911592  
I believe Barclays made errors with this chargeback   which Barclays  hasnt disputed. If 
there hadnt been any errors, Im satisfied its more likely than not the chargeback  would 
have succeeded.  This would  have  led to Mrs S returning the vehicle and getting her money  
back (£9,500). So I think the fairest way to resolve  this is for Barclays  to pay the difference 
between what Mrs S paid for the car and what she sold it for. 
Mrs S has said she has already received the £350 compensation so there is no need for 
Barclays to pay more  compensation to her.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to uphold this complaint and I require  
Barclays Bank UK PLC to do the following:
1.Pay Mrs S the difference between what she paid and sold the car for (£4,950)  
2.Pay Mrs S £765.10  for all the repairs and the MOT she paid for after the chargeback  
was unsuccessful
3.Pay 8% simple interest per year on numbers one and two above, from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement 
If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
copy of my provisional findings
complaint
Mrs S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs  handling  of a chargeback  claim. She says it made  
mistakes and caused delay and, as a result, she hasnt had the refund  she believes shes entitled to. 
background
Mrs S purchased a car for £9,500 from a dealer in May 2018, using her Barclays debit card.  She was 
unhappy with the car because  the engine  management light came on within  a few days  of purchase. 
Ref: DRN89911593A week after she had bought the car, Mrs S agreed with the dealer  to get it checked by an 
independent garage. They said there were issues  with the cam shaft sensor and a possible stretched 
timing chain. So Mrs S asked the dealer to collect it. When the dealer collected  the car they said the 
battery was flat. And they had to winch  the car onto the tow truck in order to get it back  to the garage. 
The dealer fitted a new battery and said they drove the car for 250 miles over a week.  They  
concluded the car was fine, with no faults, so they asked Mrs S to collect it. Mrs S wasnt convinced 
and told the dealer she would get the car looked at again. She told the dealer  in writing on 25 June 
2018 she would collect the car but wasnt accepting it in its current condition.  And if the dealer 
wouldnt pay for further repairs to fix the car or compensate her she would reject it. 
A few days later, Mrs S took the car to a main  dealer for more diagnostic tests   which came back 
with faults  with the camshaft, too much oil and the alarm siren. She says as she was unable to 
resolve this problem  with the dealer she contacted Barclays to put in a chargeback claim  on 10 
August 2018.  She initially asked for a £500 refund, representing a price reduction because  the car 
was faulty. She then found the battery was flat when she tried to drive  the car. She later wrote a letter  
to the dealer on 29 August 2018 stating she no longer wanted the car, as it was faulty,  and she 
wanted to return it. 
Barclays tried to challenge, or charge back the transaction. But it was unsuccessful, because  the 
dealer  through their bank  defended the claim . The dealer said the car ran perfectly, they had 
replaced the battery and didnt understand why Mrs S wanted £500 compensation. 
Barclays decided to ask the card scheme, Visa, to decide, as the final stage in the chargeback 
process. Visa then decided in favour of the dealer.  It said Barclays had failed to indicate whether Mrs 
S had returned the car, and the dealer had successfully  defended its position  by showing Mrs S 
hadnt returned the car and had only asked for a £500  refund.  
Mrs S was unhappy  with this decision  and felt Barclays  failings  had led to Visa finding  against her so 
she complained. Barclays responded  saying it wasnt liable to refund the cost of the car. However, it 
did feel it made various errors in its handling of the chargeback and offered  Mrs S £350. Unhappy 
with this response Mrs S brought her complaint  to this service and decided to sell the car.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found that Barclays  had made errors, but he didnt  
think those errors resulted  in Mrs Ss chargeback claim  failing. And he thought  the £350 in recognition 
of the impact its errors had on Mrs S was fair. 
Mrs S disagreed. She says Barclays made various errors and failed  to advise her properly  on the 
chargeback process,  which affected  Visas  decision. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here, I have to make 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more  likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Its important to note that the chargeback system is run by the relevant card scheme   in this case, 
Visa. The card scheme makes the rules; the chargeback process doesnt give Mrs S legal rights  and 
isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. However, Id consider it good practice  for Barclays to raise a 
chargeback if it has a good  chance  of success. 
Barclays did charge back Mrs Ss transaction here, as I would expect. It also asked Visa to arbitrate 
when the merchant  acquirer  (the car dealers bank) defended the claim. The claim  failed. Its not for 
Ref: DRN89911594me to interfere with Visas decision. However,  I can consider Barclays  handling  of the chargeback 
and require it to compensate Mrs S if Im satisfied that its mistakes have led to the chargeback failing. 
Barclays handling  of the chargeback
I think  the way the chargeback was handled by Barclays resulted in the chargeback failing.
The chargeback rules  for defective goods - set by Visa  say Barclays should  have done the 
following: 
describe what the defect with the car was,
show that Mrs S attempted to resolve the dispute, 
show that Mrs S attempted to return the car with an explanation of how this occurred and when.
Mrs S asked Barclays to charge back the transaction because she said the car she had bought  was 
faulty. So Barclays raised the chargeback  as goods  not as described or defective merchandise/services. 
Visas rules state clearly  that, in order  for a claim to be made for this reason,  the cardholder must  return 
or try to return  the goods to the seller. I wouldnt necessarily  expect Barclays to provide Mrs S with 
advice during  the call where the chargeback was first raised. But I would expect its call handler to be 
able to let Mrs S know about the importance of returning or attempting to return her car. Visas rules are 
clear about  this. 
Ive listened to the relevant call. Mrs S told the call handler at length about  the issues she had 
experienced with the dealer  and why she was asking for £500. The call handler did speak to the 
disputes team  during  this call but nothing was mentioned about the car still being in Mrs Ss 
possession or that she was only asking  for £500 instead of the full purchase price. At the end of the 
call Mrs S did tell Barclays when she collected the car she wasnt accepting  it as she didnt think  it 
had been fixed. But this wasnt  picked  up by Barclays as a potential problem. And, given Mrs Ss clear 
upset and dissatisfaction  with the car, I think she would have tried to return  it straight away had she 
known this was a requirement.
Barclays has told this service that this could  possibly be down to a training issue in relation to how 
chargebacks are raised by its call handlers. And its call notes from 29 August clearly state the 
chargeback wasnt raised properly initially, on 10 August. Its clear  that the chargeback was bound to 
fail because it was put through for a partial rather than a full refund, and because Mrs S hadnt tried to 
return the car. 
Mrs S hadnt returned the car on 10 August 2018 but she did tell Barclays on the phone in September 
2018 she had attempted to return the car on 29 August 2018 by sending the dealer a letter. So before 
Barclays asked Visa to arbitrate on the matter in October 2018  it was aware  Mrs S had attempted to 
return the car. And I see no reason why it couldnt have made this clear to Visa.   
For these  reasons, I find that Barclays made errors with the chargeback. So I now have to consider 
whether Mrs S is likely  to have got her money  back  had it not made those  mistakes.
Mrs Ss claim 
I think  its clear there were  problems with this car when Mrs S bought it. And Visas  rules  say a 
transaction can be charged back if the goods or services are defective.
The car was less than 11 years old and had done  around 26,000 miles when  Mrs S bought it. So it 
had a lower  than average mileage for a car of that age. There was also a three month warranty (an 
assurance that any problems would be fixed)  that came with the car. 
Ref: DRN89911595An independent garage  found problems  with the camshaft timing  and communication faults with the 
engine control unit on 22 May 2018   fewer  than two weeks after Mrs S had bought the car. The cars 
battery had to be replaced by the dealer in June  2018.  The dealer put in writing that it had cleared all 
of the fault codes. However, when  Mrs S asked an independent garage to review the car again  soon 
afterwards the same fault codes were still there. The evidence from the independent garage - 
provided by Mrs S - shows there were also additional issues at this point such as the car having  too 
much oil and a problem with the alarm siren. Mrs S had to pay to repair  these  issues. 
Mrs S has said she didnt  drive the car between August  2018 and February  2019, when she sold it, 
because of the problem with the battery. She also had to pay to get the battery replaced again after 
the dealer had replaced it in June 2018. So Im satisfied there were  recurring problems with this car 
which the dealer failed to pick up.
Overall I think  the car was defective when Mrs S got it. And I believe  Barclays must  have thought 
Mrs S had a good case otherwise it wouldnt have paid for Visa to arbitrate. 
I consider that, given  the faults with the car, had Barclays dealt  properly with Mrs Ss claim, it is likely  
to have succeeded. So Im minded to require Barclays  to compensate  Mrs S for her resulting losses.  
compensation
As the car has been sold, it wouldnt be fair for me to require Barclays to pay Mrs S the full £9,500 
she paid for the vehicle. So Barclays should pay Mrs S £4,950 which is the difference between what  
she paid for the car (£9,500)  and what she then sold it for (£4,550 according to the invoice).
Mrs S has provided  receipts to show  she has paid money to get the car back  in working order before 
selling it. In January 2019 the battery was tested and replaced  at a cost of £182.46 and the car had 
an MOT for £40. In February 2019 more  tests  were  done on why the battery  was draining with checks  
carried out on the wiring  of the car. There were also repairs to the camshaft  at a total of £542.64. So 
the total Mrs S paid for repairs to the car was £765.10. All of these costs were incurred after Visa had 
rejected Mrs Ss chargeback  claim, and I accept what Mrs S has said about their being  essential  in 
order to get the car into working  order so it could  be sold. As Mrs S has been without this money  for 
some time I believe  Barclays  should add 8% simple interest  per year to this amount. 
The reason I havent  awarded the cost of all the repairs since the car was purchased  is because  Mrs 
S paid for some  repairs before she asked Barclays to charge back the transaction. So she would have 
paid for those even if Barclays hadnt made mistakes  and I cant fairly  require Barclays to refund her 
for them. 
Mrs S has explained how upsetting and frustrating she has found  this situation and I accept what  she 
says. Its clear from the telephone conversations Ive listened to Mrs S was left frustrated when  she 
was trying to get an update on what was happening. And she was promised  call backs from the 
disputes team  which didnt always happen. 
I can see Barclays offered £350 for the service it provided. Mrs S says she earns  £100 per hour but I 
think requiring  Barclays to pay Mrs S compensation based  upon her hourly rate would be 
disproportionate here.  Much  of the impact is down  to the problems Mrs S had with the car and the 
dealer rather  than stress and frustration caused by Barclays handling of the chargeback. I think 
overall £350  is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in the circumstances. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision  is to uphold this complaint and require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to do the following:
4.Pay Mrs S the difference between what she paid and sold the car for (£4,950) 
Ref: DRN899115965.Pay Mrs S £765.10  for all the repairs  and the MOT she paid for after the chargeback  was 
unsuccessful
6.Pay 8% simple interest per year on numbers  one and two above,  from the date each  payment 
was made to the date of settlement 
7.Pay Mrs S £350 compensation 
8.Barclays  should add 8% simple interest per year to the compensation at 4 above if it takes more 
than a month to pay Mrs S after her acceptance of this settlement.   
If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income 
tax from the interest,  it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should  also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN8991159