K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC: 
closed his bank  account without notice  
withdrew his overdraft facility without  notice
prevented him from accessing the credit  balance on his account  for a while
background
On 28 April 2018, Barclays placed blocks on Mr Os account whilst it carried  out an internal 
investigation.
On 2 May 2018,  Barclays told Mr O it was closing his account  with immediate effect, and 
said he should repay any money owing on the account. Funds  that had been paid into the 
account in late April had already put the account in credit.
On 3 May 2018,  Barclays let Mr O know that he could access the credit balance that was left 
on the account by visiting  a branch with identification. I understand that the money was paid 
out to him on the same day.
Mr O is unhappy that Barclays closed his account and withdrew his overdraft facility without 
notice; and that he couldnt  access the funds in his account for a while.  Hes said that this 
matter caused  his family financial difficulties. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint  he didnt think  Barclays had done  anything it 
wasnt entitled to do. Mr O was unhappy  with that outcome, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is my role to decide whether Barclays has done anything  wrong  in this matter and, if it has, 
what it should do to put things right.
According to the terms and conditions of Mr Os account, Barclays can place blocks  on 
banking facilities at any time. It can also demand immediate repayment of overdraft facilities  
and close accounts  with immediate effect.  It doesnt have to explain its reasoning to Mr O, 
but it has explained itself to our service. And looking at everything, Im satisfied that the 
actions Barclays has taken demonstrate a legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement.
Im pleased to see that Barclays  internal investigation of Mr Os account was carried  out, 
and the credit balance on the account was made  available  for release to him within a 
reasonable timeframe.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Barclays has done anything wrong. So I wont be asking  it to 
take any further action,  or to compensate Mr O.
Ref: DRN89633152my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8963315