K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) didnt update  
her address  for a number  of years.  More  generally  she is unhappy with the service she has 
received from Satsuma stretching back a number of years. 
background
Satsuma, in their final response  letter (FRL)  of 18 September 2018, didnt uphold  Miss Ms 
complaint. It went on to explain that, in its opinion, some of the issues  Miss M had 
complained about had been previously dealt with in 2014 and 2015. 
However, it went on to say that, because it hadnt received any payments  from StepChange 
(towards Miss Ms outstanding balance)  since June 2018, it sent a letter to Miss M on 
11 August 2018,  detailing  the arrears on the account. It also went on to explain that it had 
updated Miss Ms address and this occurred in September  2018.
Satsuma also offered to assist Miss M with a repayment plan in order  to pay down her 
existing debt. Miss M doesnt  appear to have accepted this offer, and has brought her 
complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Ms complaint  and concluded that it should be 
partially upheld.  He explained  some  of the points that Miss M raised had previously  been  
dealt with by Satsuma (for example the interest rate applied to the loan) in 2015, so he 
wasnt going to revisit  those points. 
However, he was in a position to consider Miss Ms complaint about Satsuma not updating  
her address.  The adjudicator was satisfied that an arrears notice and final response letter  
were sent to her fathers address, these letters were opened, and has caused  a breakdown 
in the relationship between Miss M and her family. 
He acknowledged  that Satsuma couldnt  have foreseen that a member of Miss Ms family  
would open the letters, but he was satisfied, based on the information  he could see, that 
Satsuma had been told numerous times  and as far back as 2015 - that Miss M had moved. 
But it failed to updated her address. So in order to put things  right, he recommended a 
payment of £200.
Miss M appears  to have accepted these findings. However, we didnt hear from Satsuma.  So 
I dont know what it thinks we may have got wrong  when looking at this complaint. 
As no response was received, this case  has been passed to me to issue  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin with, I just want to outline  what we are and arent able to consider. Satsuma, in its 
response to our service,  has outlined  that there have been  previous complaints, and it has 
sent us copies of various final response letters it has issued. 
Ref: DRN86188912The final response  letter from 2014 is concerned with the impending  cost cap that was 
introduced into the industry in 2015, which is not the subject matter of this complaint. 
A further  complaint was raised, and a FRL was issued on 14 April 2015. This seems  to have 
dealt with a number of different concerns that Miss M had, including:
the interest rate of the loans wasnt explained  to her, 
delays in Satsuma  responding to Miss Ms emails and 
the setting up of a repayment plan and ways to make payments. 
At no point,  as far as I can see, had Satsuma dealt with the issue around Miss Ms address, 
so it is this that I will address in this decision.  I also understand, from the emails I have seen, 
that Miss M has said she shouldnt have  been  given these loans due to irresponsible  
lending, but I want to be clear, I make  no finding in this final decision in relation to whether 
Satsuma was right or wrong to have  provided her with her lending. 
So, like the adjudicator, I think its reasonable to consider what happened  when Satsuma 
sent the arrears  notice  and the FRL to an incorrect address. 
As mentioned above, Satsuma hasnt told us what,  if anything, it thinks we may have not got 
right. So Ive based my findings on the information  and evidence  that I have available.  
Miss M has provided us copies of emails she sent to Satsuma and these emails showed she 
was regularly updating her address with it. Indeed, the first email is from December 2015.  
However, for some reason Satsuma  doesnt  appear  to have updated her address at this 
time, or subsequent times when she requested her address be changed.  It isnt clear why 
this wasnt done,  and it seems that Satsuma only updated her address in September 2018.  
Satsuma hasnt explained why it took so long to update her address when her requests were 
in my opinion clear and, as far as I can see, there was no reason not to follow  Miss Ms 
instructions So, based  on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Satsuma  made an error by not 
updating Miss Ms address. 
I then need to consider whether this error has led to Miss M being  caused trouble and upset. 
We know that Satsuma  sent an arrears  notice and a FRL to an address that Miss M wasnt  
at, and at this point  a family member opened  the letters. Miss M has told us that this has led 
to a breakdown  in her family relationships.  
I, like the adjudicator, accept that Satsuma couldnt have foreseen that a member of 
Miss Ms family would open the letters  that it sent to the wrong address. Indeed,  had the 
letters been  sent to the correct address and then a third party  had opened them,  we wouldnt 
be able to say that Satsuma  had done anything wrong.
However, there was a risk, given that Satsuma was sending post to the wrong address that 
something like this may have happened. And given Im satisfied that an error has been made 
by not updating Miss Ms address, it therefore follows  that Im satisfied that Miss M has been 
caused distress by what has happened. As a result, like the adjudicator, I will be making an 
award to Miss M for this. 
Im also aware that there is an outstanding balance on Miss Ms loan. Satsuma  has offered 
to discuss a repayment plan in order to clear what is owed  and so Miss M may wish to 
discuss her options with Satsuma. 
Ref: DRN86188913putting things right
The adjudicator awarded £200  for trouble and upset  caused to Miss M as a result of the 
errors made by Satsuma.  I dont consider this an unreasonable  sum to reflect what has 
happened here. So Satsuma should:
Pay Miss M £200 for the trouble and upset  it has caused. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited  should put things right for Miss M as set out above.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8618891