K822xcomplaint
Mr R, a director of Company A, complains about the service he received from HSBC UK 
Bank Plc when he was asked to complete its Safeguard Review.
background 
Mr R says HSBC asked  him, as a director of Company A, to complete its Know  Your 
Customer (KYC)  process, but he says it took more than six months to complete and during  
this time he received duplicate requests for information and was threatened with the closure 
of As bank account.  Mr R told us:
the bank contacted him in February  2018 asking  him to provide information  as part of 
its KYC process  it needed to complete a safeguard review.
he co-operated with the bank through meetings,  submissions and telephone calls but 
HSBC responded  with increasingly aggressive and threatening letters, threatening 
the withdrawal of banking facilities and this was distressing.
he met his business relationship manager and provided original documentation  and 
proof of identity, but the bank subsequently  told him that the employee wasnt 
authorised to verify his details, and it then misplaced the copy documentation.
the bank challenged him on some  of the information he had provided,  and its staff 
were poorly trained,  and this caused  him unnecessary hassle and inconvenience as 
well as time wasted and earnings  lost.
the banks  forms were poorly  designed,  and he says his complaints were handled 
poorly; investigations that shouldve been undertaken were not completed.
HSBC rejected this complaint and it issued  several  final response letters. It says although 
Mr R attended one of its branches with documentation  it wasnt able to complete the process 
of identification  and address verification. It says, for example, that although  his passport was 
scanned, it couldnt be used for both identification and address verification. And critically, the 
scanned copy wasnt certified. 
The bank says it needed to ask further questions about the information  provided by Mr R 
because there were inconsistencies between that information and the data held in other 
public records. And in order to highlight the importance of getting the information it needed, it 
had explained  that if it didnt receive this information,  this may result in the suspension of 
your banking services or potentially, the closure of your accounts and business banking  
services. It did say it didnt want to reach this step, and it asked Mr R to make every effort to 
provide the requested information.
HSBC told us the service  it had given Mr R couldve  been better and it had offered  him £50 
in recognition of this. It had also ordered  a hamper to be delivered  to him, but it says it had 
experienced some issues with its third-party supplier.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld  she 
thought the hamper and the £50 that HSBC had offered Mr R was a fair way to settle his 
complaint. She explained that this Service doesnt  compensate for loss of earnings  we only 
make modest awards  and A, as a limited  company  couldnt  experience  distress.
She said that, from what shed seen,  the bank had been in regular contact with Mr R and 
had acknowledged,  when it asked him for additional information, that the process could  be 
time-consuming, but that the information  was needed. And it had given him 60 days to 
Ref: DRN80361472provide this. She said she was satisfied the bank had made Mr R aware of the process to be 
followed and the information required, and she didnt view the letters it had sent as being 
threatening  the bank needed sufficient information to fulfil its obligations.
Our investigator noted that, although the banks letters  explained that As account access 
could be suspended and the account  could be closed if the required  information wasnt  
provided, it never came to that: As account wasnt suspended;  HSBC  extended the notice 
period; and A suffered  no financial loss.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He told us
he repeatedly asked the bank for copies  of forms, calls, emails  and transcripts  but 
these havent  been made available
he doesnt think HSBC dealt with his complaint fairly  it issued its deadlock letter  
24 hours after saying  it would  investigate his complaint.
during the KYC process, HSBC repeatedly told him it had all the information  it 
needed, only for it to request further  information accompanied by the threat of As 
account being closed if the information  wasnt provided.
Our investigator addressed Mr Rs response. She explained that there are rules  set by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority that set out whether this Service can consider a complaint and 
what complaints we can look into and under what circumstances. And she told Mr R that if 
he wanted to complain about  how HSBC  had handled his Data Subject Access Request,  he 
would need to contact the Information  Commissioners Office  this isnt something  that our 
Service can consider. She said she understood that filling out multiple forms could  be 
frustrating, but she didnt think HSBC had made a mistake when it asked for information and 
required him to complete  multiple forms.
Mr R disagrees  so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I hope that Mr R wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Our rules allow  me to do that. Mr R should note, however, that although I may not 
address each individual point that hes raised,  I have given careful consideration to all of his 
submissions before arriving at my decision.
Having considered the evidence, Im afraid I have to tell Mr R that I think the investigator  has 
reached entirely the right outcome here.  To be honest, theres  very little I can add to what  
shes already said,  and I think she set out the position very clearly  in both her views.  Ive set 
out my findings using  some of the same headings  that Mr R used.
Actual Deadline and Delay of the Investigation
Mr R says this Service  was wrong to seek HSBCs consent to look into his complaint. He 
says he referred his complaint to us within the six months of a letter dated 19 July 2019.
The rules  say that, where a business  doesnt  consent, I cant  consider a complaint which  is 
referred to me more  than six months after the date it sends the customer its final response 
Ref: DRN80361473letter advising them  they may refer the complaint  to this office. Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
rule 2.8.2R (1) can be found in the regulators handbook of rules  and guidance.
In this case, HSBC  sent several  final response letters to Mr R, the first of which Ive seen 
was dated 16 April 2018, so Mr R had until 16 October 2018 to refer the matter to this 
Service. But he didnt do so until January 2019. So without HSBCs consent, which we 
obtained in May 2019, his complaint couldve been  out of time under the strict rule that I 
have to apply.
I can see that Mr R had further correspondence  with HSBC, and he says he referred his 
complaint to us within six months of a letter he received dated 19 July 2019. He says, I 
deem it self-evident thatany earlier deadline  was effectively reset  by that letterand  it was 
wrong to delay the investigation.
I do appreciate the point  Mr R is making, but the last letter  he received from HSBC isnt 
necessary its final response. I need  to explain that the term final response  has been given 
a specific meaning  in the DISP rules. A final response is a written  response from the 
business which does  the following:
1(a) accepts the complaint, and, where  appropriate,  offers redress;  or
2(b) offers  redress without  accepting  the complaint; or
3(c) rejects the complaint  and gives reasons for doing so;
and which  informs the complainant that, if he remains dissatisfied with the firms response,  
he may now refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service  and must do so within  
six months.
So as long as the response complies with the definition, it is a final response.  It doesnt have 
to have addressed  all of the complaint points; and it doesnt have to be the businesss 
absolutely final word  on the matter because, when the investigation starts, both sides are 
asked again for their submissions about the whole complaint.
I wouldnt expect Mr R to know this. But the letter HSBC sent in April 2018  did reject his 
complaint; and it clearly  told him he could refer the matter to this Service  within six months  
from the date of the letter. So that was the final response letter. In any event, HSBC gave its 
consent in May 2019 and at this point, we were able to look into this complaint.
KYC Process 
Its important that I explain that this Service  doesnt  supervise, regulate or discipline the 
businesses we cover. And my role isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their 
performance or behaviour  thats the role of the regulator, in this case  the Financial  
Conduct Authority.  So, with this in mind,  it wouldnt be appropriate  for me to comment on 
HSBCs Safeguard process,  or the quality of its KYC forms and the changes to them  that 
Mr R might like to see.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have experienced and, in this case, see 
if HSBC has done  anything wrong.  If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position 
they wouldve  been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award  modest 
compensation that we think is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN80361474Offer Letter
Mr R says that HSBC did not make  an offer to him in recognition  of the service  hed 
received. And he says that subsequent correspondence made no mention of the offer either.
HSBC says it wrote to Mr R in May 2018 and said it would pay him £50 in compensation. Mr 
R says he didnt receive the letter,  so Ive thought about this very carefully. HSBC has 
provided a copy of the letter it says it sent to Mr R, dated 22 May 2018. And I can see the 
copy letter  provided  by the bank shows it was sent to the right address and the same 
address that it used  for its other correspondence with Mr R. I havent been told about any 
reason why Mr R might  not have received the letter (like problems with his post). So Im 
satisfied its more likely than not to have been  correctly delivered.
The letter says that in light of the inconvenience  and time spent, I have credited your 
account with £50 by way of apology and it is signed by a Commercial Customer Relations 
Officer.
Promised Investigation
Mr R also complained about the way in which HSBC investigated his complaint; both the 
length of time it took and the fact that it issued a deadlock letter  without completing  its 
investigation in full.
 
Unfortunately, I cant look into these aspects of Mr Rs complaint. This is because  complaints 
handling isnt a regulated  activity, so I wont be commenting on these broader concerns. 
However, for background,  a business  has eight weeks  to respond to a complaint after which 
time a consumer can refer their complaint  to this Service (irrespective of whether or not the 
business has responded and resolved the complaint in full).
Summary
I understand Mr Rs frustration with the service he received from HSBC, especially the length 
of time it took to complete  what,  at face value, may appear to be a relatively straightforward 
process. But HSBC is obliged to collect the information it needs in order  to verify  the identity 
of its customers.
HSBC recognises the poor service it gave Mr R and it says it credited £50 to his account in 
recognition of this, and it arranged for a hamper to be delivered to him. And I think this is a 
fair way to settle  this complaint. I know that Mr R will be disappointed  with the decision Ive 
reached, but I hope he understands why Ive reached this conclusion.
The bank says there may have been delivery  problems with its hamper supplier so Im going 
to ask it to confirm with its supplier  that the hamper was actually delivered  and, if it wasnt,  it 
should send Mr R a new hamper. It should also check that £50 was credited to Mr Rs 
account and then it should  write to him again  to confirm this.
Ref: DRN80361475my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plcs compensation and gesture of goodwill is a fair 
way to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R, on behalf  of 
Company A, to accept or reject my decision before 12 March  2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8036147