K821x#15Complaint
Mr W says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about a loan Uncle Buck provided to Mr W in February 2018. The loan as 
for £300 and was due to be repaid over six instalments. The highest repayment was £89.39.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Ws case and thought  it should be upheld. He explained that the 
checks Uncle Buck carried out showed Mr W was having financial issues. Uncle  Buck 
disagreed and said the checks  didnt  reveal anything of concern. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed me  an ombudsman  for a
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loan  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN80828052Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. I dont think  Uncle Buck  shouldve
given Mr W his loans and Ill explain why.
Uncle Buck  says it carried out adequate  checks on Mr W when he applied for his loans.
This included getting details  of his income and expenditure. It also says it checked his credit
report. I can see from evidence submitted by Uncle Buck that it did carry out checks  on
Mr W. However, I think if Uncle Buck had properly considered Mr Ws financial situation and
the lending I think  it would  have seen that Mr W was not in a position to take on this
borrowing.
I say this because  Mr W was borrowing  £300, which was due to be repaid over six
instalments. The information gathered from the credit  checks Uncle Buck  carried  out shows
that Mr W was having issues managing  his finances.  And I think  if Uncle  Buck had reacted to
the information it had gathered it wouldnt have given him the loan. I say this because the
credit checks revealed Mr W had three  instalment loans already, making this his fourth loan. 
These loans were all running  concurrently.  Mr W also had three other unsecured  lending  
accounts. So in totally Mr W had six outstanding debts when he applied  for his loan with 
Uncle Buck  and I think this information shouldve prompted Uncle  Buck to obtain  a better 
understanding of Mr Ws finances  before lending to him. Because  based on the information  
available it was clear  Mr W was facing  financial difficulties  and was reliant on lending.  
Uncle Buck  says that it factored  in other  lending  Mr W had and that he had sufficient 
disposable income to meet his commitment  under the loan. It also says it expected  Mr W to 
be accurate with the details he provided  about  his commitments.  The main focus here is
on the information available to Uncle Buck at the time the loan was applied for. This was
Mr Ws first loan with Uncle Buck, and it decided  to carry out a credit check and gather
details of his income  and expenditure. So at the time the loan was applied for it had
adequate information to see Mr W was struggling financially and unable  to sustainably repay 
any further borrowing.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  Mr Ws loan and Uncle Buck should  put things  right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck Finance LLP needs to do
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr W his loan. Uncle  Buck should:
refund all interest  and charges that Mr W paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date
of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  about  the loan from Mr Ws credit file;
Ref: DRN80828053*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Uncle  Buck should give
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance LLP
should pay put things right for Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision
before 4 April 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8082805