K820x#14complaint
L is unhappy that her request to extend the term of her TSB Bank plc buy-to-let  mortgage  
wasnt dealt with. She says she was told the 22-year term extension had been set up in a 
phone call in October 2018 but then received a letter in January 2019 to say there was only 
three months left until the mortgage  term was due to end.
background
In October  2018 the mortgage  term was coming  to an end and so L phoned TSB to discuss 
a term extension.
In the first call on 4 October  the details were discussed and a six-month  grace  period was 
agreed to give L time to put something more permanent in place. A follow up call was carried 
out on 16 October and in that a 22-year  term extension was discussed.  The actual contents 
of that call are in dispute with L saying the term extension was agreed  whereas TSB says it 
was left that the request  would be put forward and L would be contacted  further.
TSB sent a letter to L on 2 January 2019 which said the mortgage was due to be repaid on 
1 May 2019.  L called  TSB on 25 January as she was unhappy  about  receiving the letter, it 
was agreed that the mortgage  team would look into things and call L back; L said she was 
busy the following  week.
On 6 February L called TSB to raise a complaint. As part of that call a new term extension 
request was put through. TSB called  L on 19 February to go through  the term extension 
application, but L was unable to complete it as she didnt have time.
A final response letter was issued by TSB on 11 March 2019. In that, it accepted things had 
gone wrong, and offered £150 compensation. It also said As of now,  weve been unable to 
agree to an extension  of 20 years,  but as per your request a mortgage appointment has been 
arranged for 18 March 2019 at 9am when you can discuss your options in greater detail.  
TSB called L on 18 March  as agreed, but she was unwell and said she would contact TSB 
when she was feeling better. In the meantime L had referred her complaint to us on 
13 March. TSB told us it would like to offer a further £100 compensation for the delay 
between October and February.
Our investigator felt TSBs increased offer (to a total of £250) was fair in the circumstances. 
L didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
I understand L is unhappy that our investigator  based his findings on a transcript of the 
16 October call, rather than listening to a call recording. I can understand her concerns, and 
normally Id insist on listening to the actual call when the contents are in dispute as they are 
here. But in this case the outcome of the complaint doesnt turn on the contents of the call.
Ref: DRN80628752I say that because even if TSB did tell L that the term extension  had gone through on 16 October 
that still wouldnt mean any further  compensation was due. To be clear Im not making  a finding 
either way about  the contents  of the call because I dont need to, the following is based  on the 
hypothetical situation that L is right and she was told the term extension  had been put in place. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it would have been a mistaken statement of facts; otherwise known as a 
misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this type we consider the appropriate 
remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would  be in if the incorrect  information 
hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if it had been  correct. 
If the correct  information had been  given, L would  have  been told on 16 October that she 
would need to go through a formal  application for a term extension.  L could  never have been 
in the position where  shed get the term extension without undertaking that formal  
application. The mistake  came to light in January and was corrected  on 6 February when a 
fresh request was sent and then TSB attempted to complete the application on 19 February 
and 18 March. This means  L has already had the appropriate remedy in that she has had 
the opportunity  to complete the application  long before the grace period was due to end on 
1 May. I cant hold TSB liable for the fact L didnt complete the application in that time.
I understand the call will take time, but that always would have been  the case  even if it had 
taken place in October  2018. A term extension  isnt an automatic right,  it has to be applied 
for, and the process for that involves that phone call. Having considered  everything  Im 
satisfied the compensation of £250 already  offered by TSB is fair in all the circumstances, 
irrespective of whether  the 16 October  call happened as L says or as TSB says.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider  the offer of £250  is fair. I leave it to L to 
decide if now  on reflection  she wants to contact TSB to accept that offer.  My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8062875