K821x#15Complaint
Mr P complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma)  unfairly  
charged him too much to settle a high-cost short term credit instalment loan in April 2019.
Background
Mr P was provided with a high-cost  short-term credit instalment loan for £500 in 
October 2018. This loan was due to be repaid  in 9 monthly instalments of £111. In 
January 2019,     Mr  P made a payment of £222 in addition to his scheduled  monthly 
payment. Mr P then contacted Satsuma in April 2019 to request a settlement figure in order  
to repay  his loan in full. Satsuma told Mr P that he needed to pay £252.43 to settle his 
balance in full. Although  unhappy with the settlement figure  quoted, Mr P repaid his loan and 
then complained to Satsuma.
Satsuma didnt uphold  Mr Ps complaint. It said that it calculated  Mr Ps settlement figure  
using a formula based on the outstanding capital and the remaining loan term. And this was 
in line with how the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (the regs)  set 
out how a lender should calculate  a settlement figure  on a regulated  credit  agreement - 
where a consumer wanted to repay  a loan early. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ps complaint and thought that it should be upheld. He 
thought that Satsuma failed to provide Mr P with clear enough information on how any early 
settlement payment would  be calculated. 
And although he thought that clear  enough  information on this matter wouldnt have affected 
Mr P decision to take this loan in the first place he did in any event lose out as a result of 
Satsumas failure to treat Mr Ps additional payment in January 2019 as a partial  early  
settlement. Satsuma disagreed with our adjudicator  and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  it doesnt appear to be in dispute  that 
Satsuma calculated Mr Ps settlement figure  in line with the formula set out in the regs.  But 
the regs set out a formula for working out the maximum  a lender can charge in the event  that 
a consumer wishes to settle a regulated agreement early. It isnt an absolute  standard.  And 
what Im required to do here is decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of    
Mr Ps case  not just whether Satsuma has acted in accordance with the regs.  
In deciding whether  Satsuma  acted fairly  and reasonably towards Mr P, Im mindful  that 
CONC 4.2.5R requires  a lender to provide an adequate explanation  of an agreement  in 
order to place the consumer in a position  to assess whether  the agreement  is right for their 
needs and financial  situation. The matters to take into account include the features of the 
agreement which may make it unsuitable for a particular type of use and the features of the 
agreement which would  have a significant  adverse effect on the customer in a way which 
theyre unlikely to foresee. 
Ref: DRN85462862CONC 4.2.7G also lists factors a lender should  take into account when deciding the level 
and extent of an explanation. These factors, amongst other things, include the type of credit,  
the amount and duration and the actual and potential costs. In this case, there  isnt any 
dispute Satsuma  provided Mr P with a very expensive  loan.  It says that the interest was 
frontloaded  rather than added on a daily basis  because it offers  a fully-fixed  cost product 
which incurs no additional fees. 
Its important to note that all loans  irrespective  of whether interest  is added  upfront or on a 
daily basis - are based on an amortisation schedule where each instalment is made up of 
some of the interest  and charges and some of the capital advanced. And on more  expensive 
loans  such as Mr Ps - the higher interest  rate usually means  that even though a monthly 
payment may appear relatively large - in proportion to the amount borrowed - a smaller 
proportion of this payment  goes to repaying  the capital in the early  stages. 
So many consumers in Mr Ps position may believe that theyve paid off more  of their loan 
than they have due to the cash amount of the total payments made, because theyre 
unaware that their monthly payments were amortised and a large  proportion  of the early 
payments were going towards the interest. And on top of this Mr P faced additional interest 
at an APR approaching 550% being  added to an unexpectedly larger outstanding capital 
balance.
Given all of this, I think  that the information  on how an early  settlement  figure  would be 
calculated was important  information and it should have been brought to Mr Ps attention in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way. 
So I think that the key question I need  to consider in order to fairly and reasonably decide  
Mr Ps complaint is, did Satsuma adequately explain to Mr P, in a clear  fair and not 
misleading way how itd calculate what hed need  to pay should  he want  to settle his loan 
early? 
Did Satsuma adequately  explain to Mr P, in a clear fair and not misleading  way how itd 
calculate what hed need to pay if he wanted  to settle his loan early?
Satsuma says that Mr P was made  aware  of the terms and conditions in relation to early 
repayment in the pre-contract information  provided as well as the credit agreement he 
agreed to. It relies on this information as evidence of it having met its obligations  to 
adequately explain  in a clear fair and not misleading  way the terms and conditions  in relation 
to early settlement.   
Ive carefully thought  about what Satsuma has said. 
I want to start by saying  that whether the information Satsuma has referred to ought 
reasonably to have  led Mr P to understand he may still have had to pay a substantial  amount 
of interest even if repaying his loan early, depends  not only on the content of the information,  
but when it was provided and its prominence within the overall documentation given to him.
Satsuma has relied  on extracts from two separate documents but it hasnt provided all of the 
information presented  at the time. So I dont know how prominent the segments of 
information Satsuma  has referred to were within the plethora of documentation put before  
Mr P. And I dont  know  whether Mr P actually  had to read all of this information  before 
confirming acceptance   to being  bound  to them either. This is especially the case  bearing in 
mind the speed  at which this whole process is likely  to have taken  place.
Ref: DRN85462863In any event, leaving aside my concerns about whether the information referred to was 
prominent enough, I dont think that it sets out the position as clearly as Satsuma believes 
either. It does tell Mr P that if he wishes to settle  the loan early  he will have to pay interest  to 
cover the 28 day period  his quote is valid. And the agreement itself says nothing at all about 
an additional  payment being  treated as an advance payment in the event the borrower 
doesnt explicitly state that its a partial  early  settlement. 
Ive seen what Satsuma  says about  this notification being made clear in the pre-contract  
information. But I dont  think that its fair and reasonable to expect a consumer  to go rooting 
through various segments  of a number of documents  to piece together their obligations  
under an agreement. Especially as its the lenders responsibility to provide an adequate 
explanation of these matters.
So while Ive thought about  what Satsuma  has said,  I dont think that Satsuma did 
adequately explain  the early settlement terms and conditions  to Mr P, in a clear fair and not 
misleading way, or just how much of the interest not yet due hed have to pay if he decided 
he wished to pay his loan early. 
Would an adequate  clear, fair and not misleading  explanation of the early settlement terms 
made a difference to Mr Ps decision to take out this loan in the first place?
Even though  I think Satsuma didnt adequately  explain the early settlement terms to Mr P, in 
a clear, fair and not misleading way, it doesnt  automatically follow  Mr Ps complaint should 
be upheld. Thats because I still need to consider whether Mr P lost out as a result  of 
Satsumas failure to provide adequate information  to him. In other words, I need  to consider 
whether Mr P would  have  acted differently if Satsuma  had met its obligations  to him.
Ive carefully considered  what I think would more likely than not have happened  if Satsuma 
had met its obligations to Mr P. 
In deciding this matter Ive referred  to Mr Ps repayment history with Satsuma as well as his 
overall borrowing  history. As I understand it, this was Mr Ps first loan with Satsuma. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that that early settlement was in Mr Ps contemplation 
when applying for this loan either. So I dont think that the amount hed have to pay, to settle 
the loan early, was more  likely than not an important factor  to him at the time of his 
application. 
As this this is the case, Im not persuaded that Mr P would have decided  against taking this 
loan in the first place  had the early  settlement terms been made clear to him. So Im satisfied 
that it isnt unfair for Satsuma to have added 28 days  interest  to the outstanding balance  
when providing  an early settlement figure.  However,  for reasons Ill go on to explain in the 
next section, I dont think that it was fair and reasonable for Satsuma to have  added  28 days  
interest to the outstanding capital balance that it did.   
Would an adequate  clear, fair and not misleading  explanation of the early settlement terms 
made a difference to Mr Ps decision to make an additional payment in January 2019?
It isnt in dispute that Mr P made an additional  payment of £222 in January 2019. Satsuma 
says that this additional payment was treated  as an advance payment - as customers  often 
make advance payments  where they anticipate  not being able to make a scheduled  payment 
on time - rather than as an early  partial settlement. It says the terms and conditions of the 
Ref: DRN85462864agreement permit it to do this and there was nothing in the content  of the conversation  Mr P 
had with its helpline operative to indicate  that he wished this payment to be treated as an 
early partial settlement.
Ive considered Satsumas argument. Ive already explained why I dont think that Satsuma 
adequately explained in a clear, fair and not misleading way how additional payments would 
be applied. I also find that the argument  it has made   in relation to why it considered Mr Ps 
payment to be an advance payment  to be somewhat implausible.  I say this because  on the 
one hand it says that it makes it clear that all of the interest, fees and charges on a loan are 
added at the outset as it provides a fixed-fee  product  and a consumer  wont then incur any 
additional fees such as late payment fees.  It will also be aware  that the APR on Mr Ps loan 
was approaching 550%. 
So, in these circumstances,  I think it is stretching  the bounds of credulity  to conclude that   
Mr Ps substantial  additional payment (representing almost half of the amount he was initially 
lent) was an advance  payment. I say this bearing  in mind the potential  interest savings an 
early partial settlement would bring  Mr P and the fact that the terms of the agreement meant 
that he stood to make no financial  gain from an advance payment as there  were  no financial 
penalties for a late payment. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also point out that even if I were  to accept there were 
grounds to believe  that the January 2019  payment was an advance  payment, for the 
avoidance of doubt I wish to make  it clear that I dont accept this is the case, there was no 
reasonable basis for concluding this once  Mr P made his February  2019  payment. 
Im also mindful that Satsuma could have avoided any ambiguity over the status  of this 
payment and ensured that Mr P was treated fairly  and reasonably by simply asking him how 
he wanted his additional payment to be treated. Some  might  argue that it suited  Satsuma not 
to ask Mr P any questions as this was the way it could  extract the most interest. Although  
thats not a finding I make  here.
In any event, what I do find is that as the regulated firm Satsuma was the expert in this 
matter. And instead of doing what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and asking 
Mr P how we wanted his payment to be treated, Satsuma instead chose to stay silent on this 
matter. It then chose to rely on an explanation,  which  I consider to be inadequate  bearing in 
mind it wasnt  clearly  highlighted on the signed  loan agreement, buried amongst the gamut 
of pre-contract information  and which may or may not have had to be read before being 
accepted. 
Bearing in mind all the circumstances, I think  that Mr P would have confirmed  that his 
additional payment was an early  partial settlement of his loan had the early settlement  terms 
been properly  explained to him. And as Satsumas failure to treat Mr Ps additional payment 
as an early partial settlement caused  Mr P to pay more interest, it follows that I think that he 
lost out because of what  Satsuma did wrong.  So I think  that Satsuma needs to put things  
right.  
Fair compensation  what  Satsuma needs to do to put things right for Mr P
Ref: DRN85462865I think that Satsuma should  as far as practicable  place Mr P in the position  that hed now be 
in had it met its obligations. While  I accept  that Mr P might not have expected  to have to pay 
28 days additional interest when he requested his settlement figure, Ive explained why Im 
satisfied that he would  still taken this loan even if this had been  fairly and reasonably  
highlighted to him at the outset. So Im satisfied  that it is fair and reasonable for Satsuma to 
add 28 days interest from the date Mr P requested a settlement figure.
This leaves  the question  of what the outstanding capital amount Mr P owed should have 
been in April 2019. As Ive explained,  I think that if Satsuma had met its obligations  to Mr P 
he would  have said he wished his January 2019 additional payment to be treated as an early 
partial settlement.  And I think that the amount he had to pay to settle his loan in April 2019 
should reflect this.
So I think that in order to put matters  right in a fair and reasonable way for Mr P, Satsuma  
should refund the difference between what Mr P actually paid to settle his loan in April 2019; 
and what he would have  paid if the £222  additional  payment  he made in January 2019 had 
been treated as an early partial  settlement. Satsuma  should then add interest at 8% simple 
per annum  to the amount being refunded from the date that Mr P paid it to the date of 
settlement*.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. It must give    
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.   
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Provident Personal Credit  
Limited should pay Mr P compensation  in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8546286