K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Black Horse Limited imposed unfair charges when he voluntarily 
terminated his hire purchase agreement.
background
In 2015 Mr A acquired a car funded  by a hire purchase agreement  with Black Horse.  In 
October 2018, after Mr A had paid over 50% of the agreement, he notified  the business  that 
he wished to voluntarily  terminate it and to return the car. It responded and said that to do so 
he would  have to pay an outstanding sum of £200.06. This was to pay off insurance on the 
car. It also said that he could deliver the car to one of its auction sites, but if he wished to 
have the car collected it would charge him a fee of £75.
Mr As complaint was rejected by Black Horse and so he brought  it to this service.  It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. He noted the 
terms and conditions of the agreement and saw it was split between finance for the car and 
for insurance. Mr A had borrowed £13,164 for the car and £549.99 for the insurance. 
The total sum due for each was £19,359.48 for the car and £671.63 for the insurance. Mr A 
was entitled to voluntary terminate the agreement for the car once he had paid more  than 
50% (£9,679.74). That didnt apply to the insurance element and the investigator thought the 
agreement had made this clear. He also said that Black Horse  had told Mr A he could deliver 
the car free of charge if he so desired. He had it collected and so there  was charge of £75.
Mr A didnt agree and said he didnt believe he owed more once he had paid 50% of the 
agreement and the terms were unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A signed  standard hire purchase agreement in which  he borrowed not only the cost of the 
car, but the insurance as well.
The right of voluntary  termination is set out in sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit  
Act 1974 and is part of any hire purchase  agreement. It allows  the consumer to hand  the 
goods back to the finance  provider during the term of the agreement. After returning the 
goods the consumer will still owe any arrears, meaning they will have to make any payments 
they've missed up to that point. But once they've paid the arrears, they won't have to pay 
any more than half the total amount payable  under  the agreement.
In this case although Mr A made single monthly payments he had, in effect two elements to 
the agreement. The rules  regarding voluntary  termination apply to the goods (the car) and he 
was entitled to return it with nothing further to pay. However, the agreement states: if you or 
we end this agreement under clause 9 or 10 you must pay us all repayments shown on page  
1 which  are at that time overdue  plus any sums due to us under clause 3, 4 6.3, 7 and 8; and 
the Total Amount  Payable for the Insurances (if any) less the Repayments for the Insurances  
(if any) paid or due up to that time and less any applicable rebate
Ref: DRN88051142Therefore Black Horse  was right to charge him for the outstanding insurance monies. As for 
the cost of collection that was Mr As choice and he was told in advance what it would cost. 
Therefore I am unable  to find any grounds  which would allow  me to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
8 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8805114