K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) is that is wont  refund  him for a 
historic transaction  on his passbook account  that he disputes.
background
Mr H is represented in this complaint by his mother.  But for ease of reference, Ill refer to 
Mr H throughout this decision.
Mr Hs mother  opened a savings account  for him in March  1999, when he was still a minor. 
At the same time she also opened one for her daughter, Mr Hs sister. These accounts were 
initially opened with a building society, but are now owned and operated by the Co-op.
In November 2018, Mr H wrote to Co-op  asking to close  his accounts. He then sent in his 
passbooks so they could be updated  and returned to him. When  they were returned, due to 
an administrative error, the historic transactions were over-printed on the more recent ones. 
Mr H was unhappy and confused by this, and he also noticed that a cheque  for £1,400 had 
been paid out of his account in January 2008  to somebody with the same  initial  and surname 
as him. He said he didnt  recognise or make  this transaction, and said that his passbook had 
been locked away  in his mothers safe.  So he wanted the Co-op  to refund him.
The Co-op apologised for the administrative error  with the passbook, and also for an earlier 
error when  Mr Hs online profile had been  created twice, and hed been sent two letters. It 
offered him a total of £75 compensation (which offer remains  available  for acceptance).
But in respect  of the £1,400 cheque, it didnt think it had done  anything wrong. It explained  it 
only had to hold records for seven years,  and the complaint was over ten years after the 
event. So it couldnt  give every detail  but was able to confirm  the cheque  number, value,  
date, the branch it was drawn from, and to whom it was paid. It also explained that it would 
have been possible  for Mr H to have issued the cheque without having his passbook 
updated. As long as he had identification.
So it declined to refund  the £1,400.
Mr H remained  unhappy, and brought his complaint  to our service. Our Investigator 
assessed all the evidence carefully,  and spoke to both parties. He concluded that there 
wasnt the evidence  to suggest  that the Co-op  had made a mistake, and that the £1,400 
shouldnt have been withdrawn from Mr Hs account.  He felt the compensation already 
offered was fair and enough  to resolve  the complaint.
Mr H still didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant uphold this complaint. 
This is because I havent been persuaded by evidence that Mr H neither knew about, or 
authorised, the transaction. 
Ref: DRN88084662I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr H, and Id like to explain why I think this is the 
only fair decision I can reach. 
There isnt very much  evidence in this case.  This is partly due to circumstances  were  only 
looking at a single transaction so the evidence would  be limited anyway  and also due to 
the passage of time. The transaction  in question took place twelve  years ago, and was only 
complained about ten years after the event. In those circumstances, I was pleased to see 
that the Co-op was able to provide the information it did about  it. 
Mr H says he didnt issue a cheque  for £1,400 from his account. As its an unauthorised 
transaction, he thinks the Co-op should refund  him. Hes suggested  that because  a cheque 
for the same value  was drawn from his sisters account the same day, that the Co-ops made 
a mistake and attributed it to his account. But theres  no evidence for this. Its only 
speculation. Id expect to have seen  Mr Hs sisters passbook to show what  happened on her 
account at the material  time, along  with an explanation as to what the money was for, and to 
whom it was being paid (NB. to somebody  with the same name as Mr H). It dont think its 
unrealistic to suggest that the same amount was taken  from both accounts  at the same time 
for a specific  purpose. Perhaps one that Mr H no longer recalls. 
We also know the cheque  was payable to the same surname and initial as Mr H. So it could 
only have been  cashed by somebody  with the same details. The obvious  person is Mr H 
himself, or his father,  who hes told us has the same name and initial.  
I dont see how a third party fraudster could benefit from a cheque in a particular persons 
name, unless they have  the same name.
Mr H seems to suggest that because  the Co-op made some administrative mistakes  when  
he asked to close his accounts, that this makes it more likely that it made  a mistake back in 
2008. But Im not persuaded  by this. The over-printing on the passbook  was simply that  
over-printing. It doesnt mean any of the information itself is wrong. Its purely to do with 
presentation. 
I remain concerned about  the evidence Mr H has submitted about a cheque  for the same 
value coming from his sisters account,  and the accounts being  confused.  Without any 
evidence from the account holder, I cant consider this matter  any further. But it does  sounds  
like an overly-convenient explanation.  And, if anything, the fact that Mr H acknowledges  and 
agrees that a cheque for the same sum, made payable to the same  payee, was taken from 
his sisters account   without any explanation  as to why and for what purpose   inclines me 
to think that its not unreasonable that a similar  cheque was drawn  on his account.
I hope Ive explained why, on balance,  I cant say on the evidence available  that the Co-op 
has made a mistake or treated Mr H unfairly.  I think the compensation already offered (in 
addition to the £25 already paid) is fair to resolve  the remainder of the complaint.
Ref: DRN88084663my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Its for Mr H now to decide whether to accept the £50 offered by The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8808466