K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains he was mis-sold a whole of life policy by The Prudential  Assurance 
Company Limited  (the business).  
background
In October  1977, Mr B met with a representative of the business, and was recommended a 
whole of life policy with a £3,000 sum assured,  for £13.24 a quarter.  
This sum assured was guaranteed to be paid at maturity, plus any bonuses.  The policy  
subsequently started  in November1977, and the premiums were  waived after 40 years.   
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it was mis-sold. In 
summary he said:
Because the policy commenced in 1977,  before the Financial Services  Act 1986 
(FSA 1986) came  into force, there wasnt a duty on the business to give advice. But if 
there was advice given, it had to be done with reasonable care and skill. The 
business also had a duty to disclose material information, and not make  any 
negligent statements.  
There was no obligation on the business  to record  Mr Bs financial objectives,  or to 
complete a fact find.  
He was only looking to see if the recommendation was appropriate for Mr B. Based 
on what hes seen he was satisfied  the recommendation made in 1977 was 
appropriate. 
He was satisfied  Mr B wasnt misled about  what the policy  entailed.  And there was 
nothing to suggest the recommendation was made in relation to a current or future  
mortgage. It was recorded that no mortgage  related issues  were discussed.  
The policy couldve  been converted into an endowment  plan and in 2008 it was 
recoded that Mr B was considering  doing this. 
If, as Mr B suggests the policy was sold for a mortgage, he wouldve raised an issue  
when the policy  was rejected  as suitable  cover  by the mortgage  provider. 
The business cant be blamed for the lenders  decision.  
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  
He strongly maintains the policy was mis-sold. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr B took out this policy in 1977,  before  the FSA1986 came  into force (in April 
1988), there were different requirements  when giving advice. The common  law duty to act 
with reasonable  skill and care when making a recommendation  applied, rather  than the 
suitability requirement  which  applied afterwards. 
So, I have to consider  this complaint  in relation  to the rules and regulations as they were in 
1977. Its possible something that was appropriate  pre-FSA 1986 may not necessarily be 
considered suitable now, but that doesnt mean  the business acted incorrectly  at the time.   
Ref: DRN81388662In 1977, the business  wasnt required to retain  detailed paperwork about any conversations 
that took place.  Therefore its understandable that there may not be documentation  to show 
what specific advice was given. Crucially  I note the business wasnt required to complete a 
fact find document  (or a suitable alternative to know your customer)  recording Mr Bs 
personal and financial  circumstances, or issue  a suitability letter detailing why the 
recommendation was made. 
Notwithstanding the above, on the face of the evidence  and on balance, despite  what  Mr B 
says Im unable to safely conclude that the recommendation was inappropriate for him. At 
the point of sale, the recommendation only needed  to be a reasonable degree of fit, and in 
the circumstances I think  it was. Ive seen no evidence that Mr B had adequate life cover in 
place at the time or that it was unaffordable. I note hes maintained it for a significant  period 
of time. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that the policy  was sold for the purposes of a mortgage. 
Generally a whole  of life policy wouldnt be considered suitable for a mortgage, unless there  
was a particular  reason.  In this instance  I note it was recorded that no mortgage  related 
issues were discussed  at all, so Im unable to safely say the policy was sold for this purpose. 
It seems  that this particular policy was capable of being converted into an endowment  policy. 
I note in 2008 when this particular issue was discussed, and Mr B was considering doing 
this. I also note a mortgage  lender didnt think this policy was suitable cover  for a mortgage.   
Whether or not it was, and I think its likely it wasnt, I dont think I can blame the business  for 
this.  
I note the members'  booklet explained that there was life cover  within  Mr Bs policy and 
indicated there were fees and charges applicable. Im aware  the business says that at the 
time it didnt  have to explain  or provide any details but they were available  on request. In this 
instance I dont  disagree with the business.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8138866