K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains because Liverpool  Victoria Financial Services  Limited (LV) hasnt paid her 
income protection insurance claim and has cancelled various elements of her flexible 
protection policy. 
Ms D is also unhappy with the length  of time it took LV to reach  a decision about her claim.  
background
Ms D took out an income protection and critical illness  insurance  policy  with LV in 2017.
On her insurance application  form, Ms D was asked a number of questions  about her
medical history. Ms D told LV about  back pain and it applied an exclusion relating to this to
her policy.
In November 2018, Ms D made a claim under her income  protection  insurance policy with
LV because she was unable  to work.  In April 2019,  LV wrote to Ms D to say it wouldnt be
paying her claim and her policy was cancelled.
LV said this was because  Ms D hadnt  told it about an episode of work-related stress,
injuries following  a road traffic collision, hearing difficulties and a shoulder  problem  when
buying her insurance  policies. LV said, if it had known  about these things, it wouldnt have
offered Ms D the income protection insurance policy and a number of other policies. LV said,
as it thought the misrepresentation  was deliberate, it wouldnt be refunding Ms D the
premiums shed paid for her income  protection insurance policy.
Unhappy, Ms D complained to LV and contacted  this service. LV said it wouldnt be
changing its decision. It also said it would be adding a number of exclusions to Ms Ds
critical illness insurance policy.
Ms D then provided new evidence from her GP which confirmed she didnt have hearing
difficulties. LV reviewed  this information and said it wouldnt have changed its decision not to
offer Ms D her income protection insurance policy. But LV said it now wouldnt apply an 
exclusion to Ms Ds critical illness insurance policy for hearing issues. Ms D later also
provided an independent medical report, but LV said this didnt change its position.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ms D didnt accept this, so the complaint
was passed to me. I made my provisional decision earlier this month. In it, I said;
LV says Ms D misrepresented facts about her medical history to it when she took out this
policy.
The principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations)  Act
2012 (CIDRA) apply to this situation. CIDRA is designed to make  sure consumers and
insurers get the appropriate remedy if a policyholder  makes  what is called a qualifying
misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying  misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which the insurer asks about. The standard of care required is that of a
reasonable consumer. If a consumer makes a qualifying  misrepresentation, the insurers
remedies are set out in the legislation.
Ref: DRN89902122LV now accepts that Ms D didnt have hearing  difficulties, and it has removed an exclusion
for this from her critical illness policy. So, what remains for me to decide is whether  I think
Ms D misrepresented  other issues about her health  to LV.
Ive seen Ms Ds application form. I think this asks clear and specific questions about  Ms Ds
health. It also sets out warnings about the importance of taking reasonable care to answer
the questions  honestly and explains the possible consequences of failing to do this. The
form recommends contacting LV to check if there  is anything the applicant doesnt
understand.
Amongst other questions,  Ms D was asked:
In the last 5 years, regardless  of whether youve seen a doctor, required treatment
or had time off work, have  you had:
Anxiety, depression,  stress or mental  illness?
Including:
Eating  disorders
Addictions
Work  related stress
Ms D answered no to this question. But LV thinks, in response to this question, Ms D
should have told it about an episode of work-related stress in 2014 when she was signed off
work for over two weeks.
Ive taken into account everything Ms D has said about why she answered this question in
the way she did. I understand she feels she sought preventative  treatment for stress and
didnt actually develop  the condition. But Ms Ds medical records  show she spoke to her
doctor in the five years before taking out the policy because she was feeling stressed at
work, and she was signed off work  on this basis. I think  the question  LV asked is clear,  and I
dont think its reasonable for Ms D to have interpreted the question as asking  whether  she
had a formal diagnosis of stress. I think a reasonable  consumer would have realised that the
2014 GP appointment and subsequent time off work was something LV wanted  to know
about in response  to the question asked.
The application form went on to ask Ms D whether, in the last five years,  shed experienced
any:
Joint or muscle  pain,  any type of arthritis,  or a condition affecting your bones,  joints,
muscles or limbs?
Including:
Gout
Ligament, tendon and muscle injuries
Carpal tunnel syndrome and repetitive strain  injuries
Fractures.
LV thinks  Ms D, instead  of answering  no, should  have answered  yes to this question
because shed attended hospital  in 2016 with shoulder, wrist and back injuries following a
Ref: DRN89902123road accident.
Ms D has provided a medical  report which says she suffered soft tissue injuries to her spine
and wrist. Ms D feels she didnt need  to answer yes to the above question  because of the
nature of her injuries and because her joints and bones themselves werent affected. I dont
agree with Ms Ds interpretation of this question. Soft tissues  include  muscles, ligaments and
tendons. So, I think it would have been  reasonable for Ms D to have told LV about the
injuries she suffered  in 2016. And, if Ms D was in any doubt about whether this was
something she needed to tell LV, she could  have contacted LV to check  this as mentioned  in
the warnings on the application form.
Ms D also experienced  persistent left shoulder pain following her accident.  I dont accept
Ms Ds argument that the above question  was specific to limbs.  I think  a reasonable
consumer would consider that a question asking about bones, joints...or limbs would
include the shoulder.
In any event, I think Ms D should  reasonably have told LV about the problems with her
shoulder in response  to the following question:
Other than for conditions  that youve already told us about,  in the last 2 years have
you:
Been under follow-up with your GP surgery, or a specialist, hospital or clinic?
Including:
Minor  injuries or strains
Reviews or check-ups  that you have been asked to attend  even if you didnt.
Im satisfied with the evidence LV has provided  to show, if had known about the stress and
shoulder problems  which Ms D experienced, it wouldnt have offered her the income
protection insurance policy. This means, based  on the evidence Ive seen, I think Ms D
made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
CIDRA allows LV, if a misrepresentation  is deliberate or reckless,  to refuse all claims, cancel
the policy and keep the premiums which the policyholder has paid.  This is what LV has done
in this case and, based on the information Ive seen,  I dont think  LV has been unfair or
unreasonable in doing this.
It took around five months for LV to make a claims decision here and I can understand why
Ms D will have found this delay frustrating and concerning.  Id expect an insurer  to handle a
claim within a reasonable timescale, without any unnecessary delays.  But this needs  to be
balanced with the insurers right to make reasonable enquiries  to satisfy itself that a claim is
covered under a policy before agreeing to accept it, and delays can sometimes  be outside  of
an insurers control.
I can see there were delays of well over month while LV was waiting for Ms D to return
signed consent forms, during which time LV chased Ms D to return  the forms to it. When LV
requested information  from Ms Ds GP in January  2019, it took over two months for LV to
receive this information.  But, again, I can see LV was chasing this information. Ive reviewed
LVs claims file and Im satisfied  it dealt with this claim within  a reasonable timeframe overall.
Ref: DRN89902124Ms D has complained that LV continued to collect premiums for the policy after it had
already been cancelled.  Ive asked LV about this and it said Ms Ds income protection policy
was cancelled on 1 May 2019. It says, because this was too late to stop the May payment,
the original amount due of £46.18 was collected and then refunded to Ms D. The correct  new
premium for Ms Ds new critical illness insurance  policy (£25.09) was then collected. LV has
provided evidence  of this and Im satisfied what it says is correct.
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms D, and Im mindful of the difficult circumstances she is in, but I
dont intend to ask LV to do anything  further.
LV said it had nothing  further to add in response to my provisional decision.  Ms D responded 
with additional  comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what Ms D has said in response to my provisional findings,  but I wont  
be changing my decision.  
Before making my provisional  decision, I clarified  some outstanding issues with LV  
namely, whether  an exclusion  for hearing issues was still active on Ms Ds critical illness 
insurance policy and what premiums Ms D was charged after her income protection policy  
was cancelled. In order to independently  investigate and address a complaint  in full, well 
often need to obtain additional information from one or both of the parties involved before 
reaching a conclusion. My provisional decision was sent to LV and Ms D at the same time, 
giving both an equal opportunity to comment.  
Ms Ds critical  illness insurance policy no longer has an exclusion for hearing issues. LV 
originally added this exclusion  based on comments in Ms Ds medical records about  hearing 
impairment in one of her ears.  LV then removed the exclusion  after taking into account  the 
further medical evidence from Ms Ds GP. Im satisfied,  based on what Ive seen, that LV 
considered all of the medical information it was provided with when dealing with Ms Ds 
claim. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is an informal alternative to the civil courts  and Im not 
required to link to or reference  specific pieces of evidence,  unless  I think its necessary to do 
so. My provisional decision sets out the evidence  Ive relied upon. This includes Ms Ds 
medical records  in particular, but not limited  to, notes from a GP consultation about  work-
place stress  in May 2014 and a letter relating  to soft tissue injuries in 2016.  
I understand Ms D isnt medically qualified, but Im satisfied the questions  LV asked her were 
clear and straightforward and I think Ms D should have told LV about her stress  and 
shoulder problems.  As she didnt,  LV is entitled  to refuse Ms Ds claim,  cancel  the policy and 
keep her premiums.  
Ref: DRN89902125my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8990212