K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about fourteen payday loans that Quick Quid provided to Mr B from March  
2014 onwards.  Mr Bs last loan was provided in June 2018.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint  and thought  the complaint about loans five 
to eight and loans eleven to fourteen should  be upheld. 
Quick Quid disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Quick  Quids response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Quick  Quid was required to establish  whether Mr B 
could repay  his loans in a sustainable  manner  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN87180322Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the rules  and guidance  in place at the relevant times define a sustainable  
manner as being without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing 
problem indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income  and/or 
available savings. So it follows  that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to 
realise, that a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a 
sustainable manner  if they have a history of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit 
agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr B, I think that 
there were two instances where Quick Quid  should  reasonably have seen that Mr B was 
unlikely to have  been able to make his loan repayments in a sustainable manner. I think  that 
it should have  realised this was the case by the time it provided  loan five and by the time it 
provided loan eleven. I say this because:
by the time of loan five, Mr B had owed Quick Quid  money for most of a seven month 
period. In my view,  Mr B owing Quick  Quid money for this period  of time, in these 
circumstances, was in itself a clear  demonstration  of Mr Bs inability to settle his 
loans over the life of the credit agreement.  
I think that a similar  pattern had emerged  by the time of loan eleven. By this stage, 
Mr B had owed Quick Quid money for most of a six month period. And there  were  
also late fees and deferrals on loan ten. Mr B borrowing more than he borrowed for 
loan ten  which he had late fees on - also suggests  that he was borrowing further 
because he had difficulty repaying.   
in my view, Mr B being given this many  loans in these circumstances unfairly 
prolonged his indebtedness. Mr B ended up paying large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service an increasing debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mr B lost out because Quick Quid loans five to eight and loans eleven to fourteen 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time he owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream  
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans five to eight and loans eleven to fourteen and 
Quick Quid should  put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
Ref: DRN87180323refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on five to eight and loans eleven  to 
fourteen;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr B owed Quick Quid money  means that any information still 
recorded about the upheld loans is adverse. So all entries about loans five to eight 
and loans eleven to fourteen should be removed from Mr Bs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr B compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8718032