K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains a car supplied  to him by Startline Motor Finance  Limited  (Startline) under a 
hire purchase agreement,  was defective.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings  on it, can be found in my 
provisional decision, which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
I brief summary, I said I was minded not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. This was because I 
thought the car he was supplied by Startline was likely to have been of satisfactory  quality at 
the point he acquired it. I considered the mileage of the car at the time, the number of miles 
and months Mr M had been able to drive before the engine failed, and the lack of evidence  
the failure was caused by an inherent defect, when coming to my findings.
Startline said it agreed with my provisional decision.  Mr M said he disagreed,  and made a 
number of points  to support his position. The points  which are most relevant to his complaint 
about the car could be summarised  as follows:
The car had not been  high mileage by modern  standards. He currently  drove a car 
from the same manufacturer with over 250,000 miles on it, more  than double the 
number of miles than the car from Startline at the point the engine failed. Modern 
cars were more reliable and built to last longer.
He had taken  good care of the car and had it serviced and checked  regularly.
The first garage he had taken the car to when the engine was failing  had advised  him 
the coolant pipe looked like a faulty  pipe and needed replacing. This garage  had later 
stripped the engine  and confirmed it was flooded by a crack  in the faulty  hose. This 
could be confirmed by the garages  chief mechanic.
The second garage he had taken the car to, and which had later told this service the 
pipe was not a faulty  pipe, was not telling the truth.
The case  has now been returned to me to review again. I apologise to Mr M for the length of 
time it has taken to complete my review.
My findings
Ive considered once  again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M raises some interesting  points  about  the longevity of modern cars. I dont doubt cars 
can reach the kind of mileages Mr M has quoted,  and similarly I dont doubt that Mr M 
serviced the car appropriately in this case. Indeed, he has provided evidence of the services  
he had carried out. That said,  there  are many factors which  could affect the lifespan  of an 
engine. For example, its not known how well the cars previous keepers maintained it, or 
how they drove it, in the 80,000 miles before it came into Mr Ms possession. Maintenance 
and the way in which a car is driven can influence the amount of wear  and tear an engine 
Ref: DRN82532472experiences and ultimately how long it will last, and these  are usually unknown factors  when 
acquiring a used car. 
I referred in my provisional decision to the concept  of satisfactory quality.  One of the 
relevant aspects of satisfactory quality is durability   and in the context of Mr Ms complaint 
it would  mean that the car, and its parts, should last a reasonable length of time. When  the 
engine failed, the car in this case had covered around 110,000  miles and was about 6 years  
old. Mr M had put around 30,000 of those  miles on the car, over a period just short of two 
years. While it may be the case that the engine did not last as long as those in other cars 
Mr M has driven, it doesnt follow that the car insufficiently durable  and therefore  not of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him, especially in light of the fact that there are 
factors which cannot be ruled out in this case as Ive outlined  above.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  if it could be shown that the reason  why the engine 
had failed was due to an inherently defective  coolant  pipe, then in my view this would mean 
the car had not been of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied to Mr M. I concluded in my 
provisional decision that on balance Mr Ms car did not have the defective  pipe when it was 
supplied to him and therefore this was unlikely to be the cause of the engine  failure.  I based  
this conclusion on an account of events and photographs  supplied by the second garage  
Mr M had taken the car to.
Mr M has said he doesnt believe  the second  garage  has been truthful when telling this 
service that the pipe fitted to the car was of the improved, non-defective type. Hes said the 
first garage he took the car to should be able to confirm the cause of the engine failure. We 
have contacted the first garage  and, although they could  remember  the car and fitting a new 
engine to it, they could not recall what was wrong with the previous engine.  They  told us 
their notes simply said technician looked at vehicle needs new engine. I dont feel this 
helps me draw any conclusions about  the cause  of the engine  failure.
Its also not clear to me what motive the second garage would have to provide false  
information to show the pipe on Mr Ms car was of the improved type, but in any event I did 
not assess the evidence it provided  uncritically.  The photographs appear to show the correct 
car, with what looks like the improved type of coolant pipe fitted  to the engine,  in a condition 
which suggested it hadnt been fitted  recently.  Mr M has suggested it is suspicious that the 
manufacturers central system was updated  to show the pipe had been replaced, shortly 
after it had been  at the second garage, but I dont necessarily think  this is a cause for 
suspicion. The car had been subject to a recall  for the defective pipe and the second garage 
carried out the instructions listed in the manufacturers recall notice, finding when it did so 
that the improved pipe was already fitted.  So it makes sense that the database  would be 
updated to show  that the pipe had been replaced.  
More recently, Mr M has examined  the photos from the second garage and said the engine 
in the photos seems  to be the replacement  engine, not the original  engine.  We have 
investigated this further and noted the odometer reading in the photos  from the second  
garage is 111,997 miles, and the reading on the job card for the fitting of the replacement 
engine at the first garage is 111,104  miles. The engine replacement  happened in December  
2018, and the second garage supposedly saw the car in March 2018. On the face of it, the 
mileage discrepancy would appear to support what Mr M has said  that the photos  dont 
show the car in its pre-repair state.  
Ref: DRN82532473But Ive also noted  that when the first garage carried out some  work on the car in February  
2018, it also recorded the mileage as 111,104. Mr M was driving  the car between  February  
and March 2018 when it broke down, so I would not expect the first garage  to have recorded 
the same  mileage in December 2018,  as it had in February that year.  I think  its likely the first 
garage made a mistake  with the mileage when it produced the job card for the engine 
replacement, and the photos  from the second  garage are genuine and show  the car with the 
original engine and the coolant pipe which was fitted  at the point of the engine failure.
As I said in my provisional decision,  its possible the car had been  fitted  with the defective  
pipe and/or suffered a leak in the past, but there is a lack of evidence  for this. What  I think 
the evidence does show is that the improved pipe was fitted to Mr Ms car at the point the 
engine began to have problems, and ultimately  I feel unable to conclude that the engine 
failed due to an inherently defective part.
I think the car supplied  to Mr M under his hire purchase agreement with Startline was most 
likely of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied to him. It follows that I dont find 
Startline responsible to Mr M for the problems he experienced with the car and the 
associated expense he was put to. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Between the time of writing my provisional decision and this final decision, I became aware 
that the car manufacturer had been  offering  a goodwill programme in relation to the failure of 
certain types of engine,  and it appeared as though this programme might  cover Mr Ms 
engine. The manufacturer did not respond to several enquiries and requests for information  
from this service about this programme,  but it may be worth Mr M following this up with the 
manufacturer himself.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN82532474COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr M complains a car supplied to him by Startline  Motor Finance Limited (Startline)  under a hire 
purchase agreement, was defective.
Background
Mr M entered  into a regulated  hire purchase agreement with Startline in June  2016, to fund the 
acquisition of a used car. The car cost £6,366, had first been registered  in October 2012 and had 
about 80,000 miles on the odometer at the point  he acquired it. Mr M part-exchanged his previous  car 
for £250, which was deducted from the purchase price of his new car.
Under the hire purchase  agreement Mr M was expected to make 59 monthly  repayments of £163.10 
followed by one payment  of £462.10  which included  a fee payable if he wanted to own the car at the 
end of the agreement.
In March 2018  Mr M called Startline to report some problems with the car, which had covered around 
110,000 miles by this point. He said there was white smoke  coming from the exhaust, coolant issues 
and a loss of power.  The same day, he had taken the car to the supplying dealership, before having  it 
recovered to a manufacturer-linked dealer the following  afternoon. This dealer  carried out some work 
relating to a recall on Mr Ms make and model of car, and told him the engine  needed to be replaced. 
It seems the car became undriveable  and, after some time had passed without it being  repaired, Mr M 
took out a loan to replace  it with another one.
Startline treated Mr Ms report of problems as a complaint about the car. It asked Mr M for evidence 
that the issues he was complaining about had been present or developing  when he acquired the 
vehicle. It thought  it was Mr Ms responsibility  to prove his case.  Mr M didnt provide the kind of 
evidence Startline  was looking for, and it rejected his complaint on 10 May 2018.  Mr M then referred  
his complaint to this service  for an independent assessment of his case.
While Mr Ms case  was waiting to be looked at, he voluntarily terminated his agreement with Startline. 
He paid a significant  sum of money for the engine to be replaced before  doing so.
The most recent investigator to look into Mr Ms case thought  it should  be upheld. He concluded the 
failure of the engine had been caused by an inherent defect in a pipe which  carried  the coolant.  This 
had most likely leaked and caused the engine to overheat.  He noted the manufacturer  had recalled 
Mr Ms car due to the risk the pipe in question would leak. Our investigator said that as Startline had 
made no offer to repair the car Mr M should have been allowed to reject it. He recommended  Startline 
refund Mr Ms deposit;  any payments hed made towards the agreement since the car had had 
problems; the money hed spent on repairs; the cost of recovering the vehicle, and anything  else hed 
paid to reach  the voluntary  termination point  on the agreement. Finally, he recommended Startline 
amend Mr Ms credit file so it didnt show the agreement ending by voluntary termination.
Startline disagreed that the car had been  defective when it was supplied to Mr M, and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider  the complaint. The case has therefore been passed to me to consider.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so I dont think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. I 
realise this will be disappointing news for him so Ive explained below why Ive come to this 
conclusion.
The kind of agreement Mr M entered with Startline  fell into the category of a contract to supply 
goods under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The relevant effect  of the CRA for the purposes 
Ref: DRN82532475of this complaint is that Startline, as the company supplying the vehicle, had a duty to ensure  it was of 
satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied to Mr M.
Satisfactory quality means the standard a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory, taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price paid, and any other relevant  circumstances. Relevant 
circumstances in a case about a used car would include things like the age of the car, the number  of 
miles it had travelled at the point it was supplied,  and how long it took for any problems  to occur.
The car Mr M was supplied was almost  four years old and had covered approximately 80,000 miles. 
So while it was not a particularly  old car it was not new either, and had a high mileage  relative to its 
age. Just because a car isnt new, or has a high mileage, doesnt  mean it cant be of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point it was supplied. However,  theres a greater likelihood that problems experienced 
with a higher  mileage car will be caused by normal wear and tear which  has occurred gradually over 
time. If parts have failed  due to general wear and tear, appear to have lasted a reasonable length of 
time, and were not worn to the point of imminent failure  at the point the car was supplied, then this will 
not generally  mean  the car was not of satisfactory quality.
The symptoms described in this case suggest Mr Ms car engine was suffering from overheating  and 
had a coolant  leak. White  smoke from the exhaust can indicate coolant is leaking internally and being 
burnt in the engine cylinders. Although the evidence  in this case  appears to be incomplete, it seems 
likely based on the sequence of events  that overheating ultimately led to the engine  failing.
Was the coolant pipe the cause of the engine failure?
Our investigation of the complaint has focused on a pipe which has been the subject of a 
manufacturer recall on cars of Mr Ms model, engine and year. This particular  pipe was liable to crack 
and fail, causing  the coolant to leak out and the engine  to overheat.  If Mr Ms car overheated because 
it had this pipe and it had failed, then I think it would  be fair to say that it was not of satisfactory quality  
when it was supplied to him. This is because it appears to be accepted that this part was inherently 
defective or, at least, not sufficiently durable.
However, the evidence in Mr Ms case indicates that his car did not have the defective pipe. The 
manufacturer-linked dealer he recovered the car to carried out the instructions in the manufacturers 
recall notice but stopped at a certain point (operation  3) with the comment  inspect hose  ok. They 
also said there was no evidence of a coolant  leak.
I asked the dealer to clarify what  it had meant by inspect hose - ok, and it explained  that it had 
checked the coolant pipe on Mr Ms car and found it was not the defective kind and therefore didnt 
need replacing under the recall. It supplied  some photos of the car which it said showed  it didnt  have 
the defective pipe. Ive compared the photos with example images of the defective pipe and the 
improved pipe which would have replaced  it under the recall, and it does seem Mr Ms car had the 
improved pipe.  The pipe doesnt look brand new in the photos, so I dont think  I can conclude it must 
have been replaced very recently. I think it was probably  in place before Mr M reported issues with 
overheating. And the fact the dealer was also unable to find evidence of a coolant leak in the engine 
bay supports  a conclusion that there was no external  leak (for example from the pipe) at around the 
time Mr M had problems with the car.
In light of all the above, I have to conclude that Mr Ms car did not have the defective coolant  pipe at 
the time the engine failed, or an external coolant  leak. This doesnt mean necessarily that the car was 
never fitted with the defective pipe or hadnt suffered a leak in the past, which  contributed to the 
eventual failure of the engine. But theres no real evidence of this and Mr M was able to drive  about  
30,000 miles  on top of the 80,000 miles  the car had already travelled,  before the engine failed. I think  
its unlikely hed have  been able to do this if the engine had been damaged by previous leaks or 
overheating.
Ref: DRN82532476As Ive already said, I have to take into account things like the mileage of the car when it was 
supplied, and how long it took for problems  to occur, when determining whether it was of satisfactory 
quality. Considering the relatively  high mileage of the car when  it was supplied to Mr M, the fact it 
was approximately another 30,000 miles and 21 months before the engine  failed, and the absence of 
evidence of an inherent defect, I dont  think the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
This means  I dont think Startline  has a responsibility  to Mr M for the problems he experienced with 
the car. 
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I now invite  both parties to the complaint to put forward any further evidence or arguments they would 
like me to consider. They  should make sure these reach me by 6 January 2020. I will then review the 
case again.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8253247