K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained about  a second  charge  mortgage  loan they have with 
Firstplus Financial Group Plc (Firstplus Financial). Theyre  unhappy about the interest 
applied to the loan, certain terms of the mortgage  and they also complain  that the loan was 
mis-sold as they werent told the loan was unregulated. 
Mr and Mrs T also complain that there  were no affordability checks undertaken when they 
took out the loan and that the loan term would extend  into retirement.
Background 
Mr and Mrs T took out a second charge mortgage  with Firstplus Financial during 2005. This 
was for just under £100,000. 
Mr and Mrs T have  been unhappy about several aspects of the loan for some time and 
previous complaints have been  made to the business and to our service. Ombudsmen  
decisions have been issued on those complaints, which range back to 2011. In summary, 
issues relating to the affordability of the loan and that it extends into retirement, and the 
unregulated nature of the loan were all things considered by previous ombudsmen. 
The investigator who considered the current complaint points explained that as certain points 
had already been considered by our service these would not now be reconsidered. But, 
despite these  previous  cases, Firstplus Financial  had decided  to make an offer to Mr and 
Mrs T regarding the interest  applied  to the loan.  
Firstplus Financial offered  to reduce  the balance of Mr and Mrs Ts loan by £39,098 and pay 
an additional  sum in recognition of any inconvenience theyd been caused. This meant the 
loan balance  would be around £40,400,  and the interest due over the rest of the loan term 
would reduce from around £59,300 to £10,000.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  accept the offer, and amongst other things questioned certain  aspects of 
the offer, including the revised interest rate used in the calculation  and how they would be 
impacted moving  forward. 
Firstplus Financial made a subsequent, enhanced offer. This offer was to reduce the balance  
by around £50,000.  This would result in the remaining balance reducing  to around £30,000, 
and the interest  to be paid for the rest of the term would decrease to around £5,000. 
In simple terms, this was a further  decrease to the amount that Mr and Mrs T would be 
required to pay off, by around £15,000  compared to the original offer.  The same additional 
payment, as in the first offer, to recognise  any inconvenience was also included  with the 
updated offer. In addition to this, on acceptance of the offer, Firstplus Financial also agreed  
to remove any adverse information recorded with the credit reference  agencies in relation to 
payments not made by Mr and Mrs T while the case has been under investigation.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  accept the new offer. This was for various reasons, some to do with 
steps taken by regulatory bodies, others to do with how the offer had been arrived at.
Mr and Mrs T have  raised a separate complaint against the company  the loan was 
subsequently sold to, who I will call E. As these  are against the other business, theyll be 
considered separately, and wont form part of this decision. 
Ref: DRN88611422As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  its now been  referred  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the detailed submissions made by Mr and Mrs T. I havent commented  on all 
of these, rather Ive focused  on the points that I consider to be key to the complaint. Having 
done so, I think  the revised offer that Firstplus  Financial has made  in this case  is fair and 
reasonable and I do not consider there  to be grounds to instruct it to do anything more  than it 
has already offered.
As the investigator  has already  set out, a number of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint points have 
been considered before  in previous complaints to our service.  Our rules allow me to dismiss 
a complaint if the subject matter of the complaint has already been considered by our 
service. As the complaint  points relating  to affordability, the loan extending into retirement 
and the loan being unregulated have already been considered I dismiss those issues  and 
wont be reconsidering them again  in this decision.  
Firstplus Financial have  offered  to reduce the outstanding balance on the account by around 
£50,000, taking  the remaining balance to approximately  £30,000,  and pay an additional 
£150 to Mr and Mrs T. In addition to this, theyve also offered  to amend details relating to 
missed payments on Mr and Mrs Ts credit  records. Theyve done  this after considering  Mr 
and Mrs Ts particular circumstances and to acknowledge the time the complaint has been 
outstanding. 
Mr and Mrs T have  set out their reasons  for not accepting  the offer, and Ive considered 
these in detail.  In summary,  the offer was not accepted as it didnt deal with the mis-sale of 
the loan or the on-going  issue  of the interest  rate for the remaining loan balance. There  were 
also concerns about the findings of other  regulatory bodies. Mr and Mrs T also indicated they 
were not happy  with the floor to cap the interest rate as part of the offer.  Because  of these 
points, Mr T has said he cant  fairly assess either  the initial  offer, or the one made 
subsequently.
Firstplus Financial explained how the first offer was calculated and the points it had taken 
into consideration in making it. The details and breakdown of the offer were shared  with Mr 
and Mrs T. 
Im satisfied the explanation provided is sufficient  to demonstrate what factors  have been 
considered and included in the initial calculation. The calculation essentially means that a 
lower interest rate has been  applied to the loan since  it began. The £39,098 was a refund of 
the difference between what Mr and Mrs T were asked to pay and what  Firstplus Financial 
are willing to charge  them  now, with an additional element of interest  added  to that.
The offer made since is to increase  the reduction  to the balance now, in order  to mitigate the 
interest still to be paid. This appears to have the effect of decreasing the interest rate for the 
remaining period  to one that sits below the floor rate given in the original offer.
Ref: DRN88611423Mr and Mrs T have  referred to the revised  interest rate used  in the first calculation,  saying 
essentially that it should have been lower. Im not persuaded that the rate used is 
unreasonable in the circumstances here as it allows for the differences generally  
encountered between  first and second  charge  loans.  And given the second offer effectively 
reduces the interest rate for the remaining term below the floor rate in the initial  offer, I cant  
say that Firstplus Financial should  do anything more in relation to this point.
The offer to remove information  about  missed payments with the credit reference  agencies 
also seems reasonable  in the circumstances here. Mr and Mrs T have confirmed no 
payments have been made for some time since they made their complaint. This isnt a step 
we would have  recommended taking   where a payment is due and can be made, it 
generally should be, regardless  of the eventual outcome of a complaint raised  with this 
service. 
In relation to information recorded  with the credit reference agencies, the requirement is that 
that information is correct.  As payments havent been made, the expectation  is that this 
would be on record, and such information would be an accurate reflection of the 
management of the account. Despite the non-payment Firstplus Financials offer will remove  
the missed payment markers for the period  the complaint has been considered and Mr and 
Mrs T may therefore  wish to reconsider whether they are willing  to accept the offer. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T may remain unhappy with the outcome here and they may 
have their reasons  for not wanting to accept  the offer made by Firstplus Financial.  However,  
having considered all that the parties have provided  in this complaint Im satisfied that the 
offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint and I do not consider 
there to be grounds  to instruct  Firstplus Financial to increase  the offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Firstplus Financial Group Plc should  reduce  the balance  of Mr and 
Mrs Ts account  to £30,000 and pay an additional  £150 directly to them. Any adverse 
information recorded on Mr and Mrs Ts credit file, relating to the missed payments during 
the time the complaint has been  considered, should  also be removed. 
Mr and Mrs T should now consider whether they are willing to accept the offer and this 
decision represents the last stage in our process  in their complaint  against  Firstplus 
Financial. I remind Mr and Mrs T that should  they not accept this decision in the required 
time period Firstplus  Financial will not be bound by it. This means that Firstplus Financial will 
not be obliged  to settle the complaint in the way they have offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2021.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8861142