K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Cash  Converters North East Limited sold a ring she had pawned  
without telling her. She says the item was sold for much less than it was worth  - and she 
wants to be paid the full value of the item.
background
Mrs W tells us that she pawned a platinum ring in January 2017. In return  she took out a 
fixed sum loan agreement for £150  which was due to be repaid, with interest,  in July 2017. 
She says she forgot about it but when reminded she asked Cash  Converters to hold the ring 
for another  month.  And it had agreed. She says she later contacted Cash  Converters (about 
a different ring) and was told that the platinum ring had been sold for £324.99. Mrs W said 
this ring had cost £4,500 when purchased in 2012  - and the same jewellers were  now selling 
similar rings for £4,950. Mrs W does not think the ring was valued properly by Cash 
Converters and believes it was sold in-house for a fraction of what  it was worth. She wants  
the full replacement value.
Cash Converters said it had arranged  a professional valuation  of the ring and had carried out 
the proper procedures. It said it had sent out the required paperwork and held the item for a 
further period  at Mrs Ws request. But when no further instructions had been received  from 
Mrs W - it had sold the ring. The price realised had been £324.99 but after taking costs  into 
consideration there were no surplus funds to return.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said Cash 
Converters had written to Mrs W to inform her it intended to sell the ring. And he said the 
terms and conditions of the agreement did not require it to tell Mrs W in advance  the quote  it 
received and the price for which it would sell the ring.
Mrs W didnt accept this outcome. She said if Cash Converters had done everything fairly  
there was no way that a ring of that high standard and quality would sell for what  it did. And 
that shed not seen  other rings - worth anywhere  near the same as her own - sell for less 
than £1,000. As its not been  possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman has been 
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mrs W has experienced the upset  of finding her ring had been  sold at a price she 
considers to be a gross  under-valuation.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in line with our fair and 
reasonable remit. And where evidence is incomplete or unclear - as some  of it is here - Im 
required to make my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive seen a copy  of the agreement and this clearly  sets out the terms on which  the loan was 
made. In summary, Mrs W was required to make  the repayment  of the loan and interest 
within six months or such later date as was agreed with Cash Converters. And if the loan 
was not repaid Cash Converters was required to send notice if it intended to sell the ring. 
Ref: DRN81589132Although theres  nothing  in the terms and conditions which required Cash  Converters to 
notify Mrs W in advance  of the valuation and/or the selling price - Ive seen  evidence  it did 
so. Wed expect to see a period of 14 days before the item is sold. A letter, dated 17 July 
2017, notifying Mrs W of the intention to sell, did give the 14 days  notice. And it did state the 
asking price would be £249.99. As this was the letter which  prompted Mrs W to request an 
extension of the loan period - Id have expected her to query the valuation  at this time.
And Cash Converters wasnt required to separately  obtain her agreement to either  the 
valuation or the sale. The right to sell arose  from the terms of the agreement which Mrs W 
had entered.
Where I think Cash Converters might have been  clearer, is in its explanation to Mrs W over 
the manner of valuation. In the final response letter  of 5 February  2018, following  her 
complaint, it did say:
As the item had not been redeemed  or extended within the agreed  period, the item was 
sent to the company jeweller  on 16 October  2017.  This is when the company  jeweller  
cleaned, polished and valued the item to the expected second-hand price for re-sale.
And it further  stated:
the company  has followed the correct procedure  in regard to having  the item 
professionally valued  for resale as a second hand item.
But in answer to my request for the evidence  of this valuation Cash Converters told me it did 
not have a valuation certificate. It said it only offered valuation  insurance certificates for 
items over £400 - unless a customer requests one at the time of purchase. And that in 
assessing the value of the loan to be offered it used  a pawn calculator before the 
transaction took place.
Whilst it is not for me to tell a business  how it should  explain its procedures  to a customer I 
think most reasonable consumers would expect - upon being  told an item had been 
professionally valued  - there to be documentary  evidence detailing  the basis of the valuation.
Having said that, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say there  is sufficient 
evidence to show the ring was under-valued - either at the start of the agreement or before 
sale. And it seems to me there  were  at least two occasions when it would  be reasonable to 
expect - if Mrs W thought the ring might be under-valued  in the event  of sale - for a query  
about the valuation to have been raised.  
Firstly, when the ring was first pawned  - and a loan offer of (only) £150 was made. If Mrs W 
thought the ring was worth anything near the original purchase price  - Id have thought  a 
query should have  been  made at the time. And if shed not been  satisfied she could have 
declined to proceed with the agreement.  
And Ive already referred  to an asking price of £249.99 being stated in the letter notifying the 
intention to sell. As it happens the sale price  achieved was £75 in excess  of this.
Ref: DRN81589133In summary,  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say that Mrs W has suffered any 
financial loss due to any fault on the part of Cash Converters. I think  she had sufficient 
information - both at the start of the agreement  and prior to the sale of the item - to have 
challenged the valuations if she considered them  to be unfair.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mrs W Im not asking Cash Converters 
to do anything else. And Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8158913