K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the service and advice from HFMC Wealth LLP (HFMC). 
background 
Mr and Mrs W received  advice from HFMC  about  their pension arrangements and a joint 
investment. 
Mr and Mrs W met with HFMCs adviser  on 28 June 2017. Their current  financial adviser  
was retiring and they were looking for a replacement. The meeting  notes confirm  the 
discussion covered  Mr and Mrs Ws general financial situation; their retirement  planning  
they both had self invested personal  pensions (SIPPs); and the Quadrant portfolio 
proposition offered by HFMC. Before the meeting Mr and Mrs W had completed a risk 
profiler questionnaire. It indicated they were  both low risk investors. 
The HFMC adviser sent a follow up email to Mr and Mrs W on 4 July 2017 outlining three 
investment strategies offered  by the Quadrant Portfolio proposition.  Under the cautious 
profile, where Mr and Mrs Ws funds would eventually be invested, it stated:  
As the name implies,  this is a low-risk  portfolio designed to preserve  your capital and
produce better returns than prevailing  interest  rates.  This is for accessible cash  to 
supplement your day-to-day living expenses.  Target return 4 - 5% pa. Actual returns since
2009 5.72%  pa. Last years return 6%.
On 13 November 2017 HFMC produced  a financial planning report  to confirm  its 
recommendations which included:
Transferring Mr and Mrs Ws SIPPs to a new provider with the funds to be invested in 
a discretionary HFMC Quadrant Cautious Portfolio  including  property. (Mr and Mrs W 
had already signed some of the paperwork to enable  the transfers to go ahead.)
A further  joint investment of £600,000 into the HFMC Quadrant  Cautious  Portfolio
excluding property into a General Investment Account  (GIA).
Details of the charges,  including a comparison table for the existing and new SIPPs.  I 
note that Mrs W emailed  the adviser with some queries about charges on 9 
December 2017 and HFMCs adviser  replied an hour later. 
The SIPP transfers  werent made in specie. The funds were disinvested  and cash sent to the 
new SIPP  provider in tranches. I think the transfers  were complete by 21 December 2017. In 
February 2018 HFMC made  a payment  of £13,252.47.  It had calculated  Mr and Mrs W had 
lost £6,593.99 and £6,658.48 respectively in investment growth during the time their funds 
had been out of the market as cash,  not in specie, transfers had been undertaken.  
Mr and Mrs W withdrew their funds  from HFMCs  management in 2018  after becoming  
unhappy with them. They complained to HFMC  in August 2018.  HFMC  didnt uphold  the 
complaint but did offer a payment of £250 for any distress and inconvenience that might 
have been caused.  
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to us. They said HFMC  had incorrectly  transferred 
their SIPPs as cash and not in specie; HFMCs  definition of cautious didnt reflect their 
understanding or match their former  investment  managers approach;  HFMCs charges 
Ref: DRN83205272werent fairly  stated,  their GIA had been  mismanaged and HFMC  took too long to liquidate  
the investment  when  asked to do so. 
An adjudicator considered  the complaint but didnt  uphold  it. He said, as HFMC had already 
paid compensation of £13,252.47 on 1 February  2018 in respect of the transfers of the 
SIPPs as cash rather than in specie, HFMC had adequately addressed  that element of the 
complaint. 
The adjudicator also felt HFMC had taken reasonable steps to establish Mr and Mrs Ws 
attitude to risk and the cautious  solutions  recommended were  largely  suitable.  Although  
different to their previous  provider, it wouldnt  have  been appropriate for HFMC to simply 
assume the original  approach was still suitable.
The comparison table in the suitability report didnt include all of HFMCs fees. But all of the 
charges were set out elsewhere and were clearly referenced in the report.    
Part of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint was about the performance of the GIA  they believed 
theyd be getting  4% pa. But the adjudicator noted that the email  of 4 July 2017 clearly 
stated the 4% return was targeted  and that relevant risk statements had been provided 
throughout the rest of the documentation.  
The adjudicator also didnt think the two working days taken to sell the proceeds of the GIA 
was an unreasonable amount of time.  
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  with the adjudicators view. They  made a number of points which  
the adjudicator  considered in the further view he issued on 1 March  2019. He wasnt 
persuaded to change  his mind. In brief:
He agreed Mr and Mrs W had a valid point about  the transfers of their pensions  being 
in cash and not in specie. And that had meant  their money was out of the markets 
and so they could have lost out on an investment return. But HFMC had already 
done what this service would expect  compare the relevant  asset prices on the 
appropriate dates  to see if there was a loss. There was and HFMC had paid 
compensation. We wouldnt ask it to do any more. 
Mr and Mrs Ws investment profile  may have been different with their previous 
investment manager. But HFMC took appropriate steps to establish Mr and Mrs Ws 
risk profile (which werent standard across the industry)  and the investments 
recommended were appropriate.  The investment proposition offered by HFMC was 
discussed at the first meeting.  Mr and Mrs W knew a different solution was being 
offered. It wouldnt have been right to simply mirror what had been done in the past.  
The Growth Fund offered by HFMC  was unlikely to have  been  the right choice. It was 
also unlikely, if the previous  investment  strategy was cautious,  it would have  matched 
that fund. Mr and Mrs W were unhappy  with how HFMC had performed in relation to 
their previous investment manager. But we wouldnt usually  consider a complaint just 
about investment  performance  investments in the short term are impossible to 
predict. Instead wed consider whether the advice  to invest  was suitable  was risk 
appetite established and was the solution  appropriate. HFMC had taken reasonable 
steps to establish Mr and Mrs Ws risk appetites and the solution was suitable for a 
cautious investor.
The two working  days it took to liquidate the GIA was reasonable. 
The email of 4 July 2017  wasnt misleading. A target return  is clear  enough - its an 
aspiration and not a promise. It wasnt unreasonable  to invest  funds to support day to 
Ref: DRN83205273day living costs with the intention that withdrawals will be made. The fund was 
already invested  in 13% cash - and likely  would  have  generated income  payments 
that would  have increased this. The suitability report makes it clear  that even with 
withdrawals the investment should be held for at least five years.  And the report  
outlined a number  of risks. HFMC had taken reasonable steps to give Mr and Mrs W 
all the information  needed. 
At the first meeting  the Quadrant Portfolio proposition  was discussed. It was 
reasonable to assume Mr and Mrs W understood that was a different investment 
manager to their existing one. 
HFMC had taken some  time to produce  the suitability report. It did set out the 
charges.
 
Mr W replied on behalf  of himself and Mrs W. He said the email  of 4 July 2017 confirmed the 
representations made  by HFMCs adviser  when he visited Mr and Mrs W at their home to 
encourage them to engage  HFMC  as their financial advisers and discretionary fund 
managers. Except that HFMCs position  was that using  the word  target  absolves  it of 
responsibility for the misleading statement the adviser made in person, that Mr W could 
expect a return of 4% to 5% pa based on the performance of the cautious  funds  the 
previous year and since 2009. Mr W queried  what evidence HFMC had provided to show  
that he was misinterpreting what the adviser had said and delivered. If there was relevant 
documentation or notes Mr W asked to see them as theyd be material  in any subsequent 
litigation he embarked on if a satisfactory  conclusion wasnt  reached. 
Mr Ws other main  points  were:
He was satisfied  with the reimbursement from HFMC  for the rise in value that would  
have been achieved during the period the funds werent invested. But that didnt 
recognise the considerable inconvenience,  embarrassment and aggravation in 
raising a complaint with the previous SIPP provider when it wasnt  responsible and 
when HFMC knew that. HFMCs conduct  wasnt acceptable. 
HFMC hadnt said it was possible to retain  their existing discretionary fund manager 
who theyd told HFMCs adviser  they were very happy with. They thought  their funds 
would be moved  in specie and fund switches would only be made  as necessary. 
HFMC had said it would migrate their holdings,  not sell them and purchase others  
which didnt perform as well. It wouldnt  have  been  wrong for HFMC to model its 
recommendations on what Mr and Mrs W had previously  as that was what they 
wanted. 
The advisers email of 4 July 2017 was contradicted by HFMCs email of 11 July 
2018.
It wasnt the time it took to liquidate the GIA that was the issue  there  was a 
lack of information about what was involved and in particular that HFMCs trading 
only took place  before 11am daily.
Mr W made a number  of points about  what had been said about the expected return.  Hed 
expected the GIA to generate about  £24,000  pa which he and his wife could use to augment  
their income, leaving the principal sum intact.  Despite  making no withdrawals theyd  got back  
less than theyd  invested. Leaving their money with HFMC when theyd lost confidence and 
felt their trust had been breached wasnt an option.  
Ref: DRN83205274Hed hoped HFMC would have offered to reimburse  fees. Mr Ws view was that its conduct 
had brought the financial  services industry into disrepute. He referred, amongst other things, 
to the time taken  by HFMC to issue its final response to his complaint. 
The adjudicator responded to Mr Ws comments.  The adjudicator explained  this services 
role, including how we approach compensation  for financial and non financial loss such as 
distress, and the regulators role. The adjudicator referred to what  hed said before about 
why a firm couldnt  simply  adopt the approach taken by a previous adviser. He maintained 
that target didnt constitute a guarantee. And the later email  which said HFMC would 
expect our model portfolios to produce  the following long term annualised returns  wasnt  
misleading either. Investment clients often want guidance on what they can expect in terms 
of performance.  Investment managers will have an opinion which  can be shared so long as 
its made clear its only what they expect  or target. 
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
The complaint was referred  to me. Id like to apologise to both Mr and Mrs W and HFMC  that 
its taken longer than wed have liked to reach  this final stage of our process.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so I agree with the adjudicator  and with the reasons he gave that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. 
I realise that Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed. I dont have much to add to what  the 
adjudicator has already  said,  most  of which Ive recapped above. Ive added  a few further  
comments. 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs W that Ive considered everything afresh, even though I share  
the views  expressed by the adjudicator.    
One of Mr and Mrs Ws central points is that HFMCs adviser misrepresented at the initial 
meeting the return  that they could  expect. Ive only considered what  Mr and Mrs W say 
about that meeting and the email that the adviser sent on 4 July 2017 recording  what was 
discussed. I havent asked HFMC to provide a statement from its adviser setting  out his 
recollection of what was discussed. Where  theres a dispute we might do that. But here I 
cant see, just looking  at what Mr and Mrs W say was said, that there was a 
misrepresentation. 
In particular, I dont  think Mr and Mrs W say that any promise or guarantee was mentioned, 
rather that they were  led to believe a return of between 4% and 5% pa would be achieved.  I 
dont doubt Mr Ws recollection.  But Im not sure that what the adviser said would amount to 
a misrepresentation  in legal terms  that is an untrue statement of fact or law which induced 
Mr and Mrs W to enter into the contract with HFMC.  I think  what he said about the return  that 
would be achieved could  be regarded as an expression of opinion  which  was based  on past 
performance but which didnt guarantee future performance. 
Mr W agrees that the email of 4 July 2017  records what was discussed apart from the 
description of the expected return as a target  return.  Contemporaneous written evidence  
Ref: DRN83205275usually carries weight and, if theres  a dispute, may be accepted  as a fair record  of what  was 
said. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W may have understood from what the adviser said that theyd 
definitely get between 4% and 5% pa. But it seems the adviser thought hed put it slightly 
differently and on the basis  that was the expectation  based  on past performance but it was a 
target return and so might not be achieved. 
Im sorry  Mr and Mrs W are disappointed  with the performance achieved by HFMC during 
the eight months  or so HFMC was looking after their financial affairs. As has been explained, 
we dont usually  look at performance  as such  it is invariably the case  that some  apparently  
similar or comparable funds/portfolios will perform better than others over a particular period. 
Well look instead at if the investment or portfolio met the investors needs and matched their 
attitude to risk. 
I agree  with what the adjudicator has said about  why a new adviser wont  usually be able to 
simply adopt a previous  advisers approach and notwithstanding that the clients  might  
express satisfaction with how their funds are being  managed and are performing.  HFMC  was 
right to carry out its own risk assessment and base its recommendations on that. 
I dont agree that migrating necessarily  implies that existing investments will be retained,  in 
the longer term at least. And I think it was clear to Mr and Mrs W that different investment 
managers were to be used. As I understand it, what was proposed was the SIPPs would be 
transferred in specie  and migrated to the Quadrant Portfolio.  So it was always envisaged 
that the existing  funds  would be sold and the proceeds reinvested as per the Quadrant 
Portfolio, even though the in specie transfers didnt happen. It seems that Mr and Mrs W 
would have been happy to retain  their existing investment managers. If that was the case, I 
think it was up to them to make that that clear, and if HFMC  couldnt  accommodate  that, find 
an adviser who was happy  to work  on that basis. 
Mr and Mrs W accept  that HFMC have reimbursed them for the financial loss suffered as a 
result of the funds not being  transferred in specie.  And HFMC has made a payment in 
respect of distress and inconvenience. Such  payments  may be more modest than might be 
expected but I think the sum paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As the adjudicator has explained we deal with individual complaints and on the basis  of 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  Well  take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  we consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. But 
we dont fine or impose other sanctions  on businesses  even  if we think theres been a 
breach of any regulations or other  provisions. I mention that though largely in passing as my 
view here is that, in the main, HFMC hasnt done anything wrong. 
I note that HFMCs final response wasnt issued within eight weeks.  But HFMC did 
apologise. And Mr W may not have understood, when the GIA was being liquidated, exactly  
what was involved.  But HFMC did deal with the disinvestment promptly.  
I anticipate that Mr and Mrs W will be dissatisfied  with my decision. The possibility of court  
proceedings has been mentioned. If Mr and Mrs W dont accept my final decisions then they 
wont be binding on them or HFMC  and so theyll be free to pursue the matter  by any other  
means they consider appropriate,  including any legal remedies that are open to them.  
Ref: DRN83205276my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8320527