K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains  that hes lost out financially  as a result  of the delays  caused  by 
Interactive  Investor  Services  Limited  ("/ISL)  transferring  his occupational  money  
purchase  pension  scheme  into his new self invested  personal  pension  (SIPP).
Mr M further  complains  that having  told IISL not to go ahead  with the transfer,  unless  it 
made  up the shortfall  in the transfer  value  he says  was caused  by its delay,  it 
proceeded  with the transfer.
background
Mr M says  he applied  for his new IISL SIPP  on 3 January  2018.  He said he 
downloaded  the forms  and requested  valuation  and discharge  forms.  He said he 
received  the forms  from IISL on 8 January  2018,  along  with some  accompanying  
documents.  He said the accompanying  information,  said cash  transfers  could  take in 
the region  of one to two weeks  to complete.    Mr M says  he returned  the completed  
forms  to IISL within  two days  (so around  10 January  2018).
On 16 January  2018,  Mr M was asked  by IISL,  by letter,  to complete  a Financial  
Advice  Declaration  (FAD)  form.  He said he was told it wouldnt  be possible  to 
complete  the transfer  without  a FAD being  completed.  The letter  said that if IISL did 
not hear from him within  21 days,  it would  proceed  on the basis  that he no longer  
wanted  the transfer  to go ahead.
On 19 January  2018,  Mr M contacted  IISL by phone  to inform  it that as he had no 
safeguarded  benefits  in his occupational  money  purchase  scheme,  he didnt  think  he 
needed  to complete  the FAD.  Mr M says  following  a discussion  with IISL,  he was told 
he still needed  to complete  and return  the FAD.
On 24 January  2018,  Mr M wrote  a letter  to IISLs  Chief  Customer  Service  and 
Operations  Officer  stating  that he had written  to his existing  pension  provider  about  
whether  there  were  any safeguarded  benefits  in his existing  scheme  and been  told 
there  was not.     Mr M pointed  out that a FAD was only needed  if there  were  defined  
benefits  or safeguarded  benefits  in the existing  scheme,  which  he didnt  have.  He 
asked  if there  were  any further  concerns  about  this, to be contacted  direct,  or for IISL 
to contact  his existing  provider.  He said:  
"Please  can [sic] confirm  in light of this. if it is still a requirement  for me to complete  
your Financial  Advice  Declaration  Form  before  you proceed  with my application".
On 30 January  2018,  IISL contacted  Mr M again  asking  for the FAD.  It told him his 
transfer  was on hold pending  it receiving  this.
Mr M contacted  IISL on 31 January  2018,  to complain  about  the delay  and 
misinformation.
Not having  heard  from IISL,  Mr M sent a secure  message  via IISLs  website  on 9 
February  2018  about  his complaint.
Ref: DRN82870662On 13 February  2018,  Mr M wrote  to IISL again.  This time saying  that he felt that his 
pension  was ready  to be transferred  from 17 January  2018,  and he would  like IISL to 
honour  the original  transfer  value  of £176,336.00  (from  his provider  dated  8 January  
2018).  Also,  he said in that letter  "Please  do not transfer  my pension  if you do not 
agree  to pay the original  transfer  value".
On 19 February  2018,  Mr M was sent an email  by IISL telling  him the transfer  was 
now in progress.  IISL didnt  respond  to the point  about  whether  it would  honour  the 
original  transfer  value  quotation.
On 19 February  2018,  Mr M responded.  He asked  IISL for confirmation  that:
as he had been  informed  that the transfer  was now going  ahead;
and he had not completed  a FAD;
that meant  IISL had agreed  to cover  all his losses  from the original  transfer  
value.
On 2 March  2018,  IISL notified  Mr M that the transfer  was complete  and that 
£171,336  had been  transferred  into his SIPP.
IISL sent Mr M its final response  on his complaint  on 3 April 2018.  It upheld  his 
complaint  offering  him £75 for the trouble  and upset  caused.  Mr M didnt  accept  IISLs  
offer of settlement.  He referred  his complaint  to our service.
Our adjudicator  investigated  Mr Ms complaint.  He took the view that Mr Ms 
complaint  should  be upheld.  His reasons,  in summary,  were:
there  was a marked  difference  between  the response  sent to Mr M on 3 April 
2018  and IISLs  response  to this service  on 24 April 2018.  In its final 
response  letter  of 3 April 2018,  IISL agreed  there  had been  delays  caused  by 
chasing  Mr M for the FAD and he had been  given  poor information  during  his 
telephone  call about  the need  for a FAD.  Our adjudicator  noted  that IISL 
didnt  respond  to Mr Ms complaint  about  the amount  of his transfer  value  
and how he said hed been  disadvantaged;
in the response  to our service  dated  24 April 2018,  IISL said in Mr Ms 12 
January  2018  communication,  there  was some  confusion  about  the type of 
scheme  he was a member  of. He said he was a member  of a "Retirement  
Benefit  Scheme"  whereas  he shouldve  said he was a member  of a 
"Occupational  Money  Purchase  Pension  Scheme".  IISL said this confusion  
led it to believe  that it needed  a FAD to proceed.  Our adjudicator  thought  IISL 
couldve  contacted  Mr M to clarify  this.
Mr M estimated  his loss at around  £5,000.  Our adjudicator  said that as the 
transfer  value  was not guaranteed,  the pension  provider  didnt  believe  it was 
responsible  for any shortfall.  But in his view,  Mr M had lost out because  of 
delays  caused  by IISL
Whilst  the adjudicator  couldnt  say that IISL was responsible  for the £5,000  claimed,  he 
thought  IISL should  do more  to compensate  Mr M.
He recommended  that the pension  provider  be contacted  and asked  to 
provide  a transfer  value  using  2 February  2018  as the valuation  date.  The 
adjudicator  said the transfer  value  should  then be recalculated  taking  into 
Ref: DRN82870663account  the actual  number  of days  it took the pension  provider  to pay out the 
transfer.
To assess  what  compensation  was payable,  our adjudicator  then set out a 
methodology  for calculating  the value  of that recalculated  transfer  value  now,  
working  on the basis  it had been  invested  in the SIPP.
Mr M didnt  accept  our adjudicators  view.  He said,  in summary:
his pension  shouldve  been  transferred  between  10 and 25 January  2018  as 
IISL had all the required  information  before  13 January  2018.
after 5 February  2018,  his pension  shouldnt  have  been  transferred  
unless  IISL agreed  to meet  the original  transfer  value.
at 3 January  2018,  his pension  was at its highest  transfer  value  for 3 
years.  He decided  to cash  in his pension  to take his 25% lump  sum.
the reason  he selected  IISL was because  it had said it could  arrange  transfers  
in one to two weeks  and he was expecting  the stock  market  to go down  and 
his pension  was invested  in stocks.
if IISL had approached  his pension  provider  between  9 January  and 31 
January  his pension  wouldve  been  worth  no less than £176,000.
on 5 February  2018,  he was given  21 days  to complete  a FAD,  otherwise  he 
was told IISL would  treat things  as if he didnt  want  the transfer  to go ahead.
by 5 February  2018,  his transfer  value  had gone  down  to £169,000.  As he 
had not completed  a FAD,  he was glad his pension  was not being  
transferred  and was staying  invested  with his existing  provider.
on 13 February  2018,  he sent a letter  of complaint  and made  it clear  he 
didnt  want  the transfer  to go ahead  unless  the original  transfer  amount  was 
paid.
he has lost the balance  of the 25% lump  sum of £44,080-  compared  to what  he 
got
£42,834  which  is a loss of £1,246.
he wouldve  left his money  with his existing  provider,  so his loss should  be 
calculated  based  on the performance  of his existing  pension.
he had only recently  started  investing  the money  in his SIPP.  He had left it in 
cash,  in case  it had to be transferred  back  to his existing  provider.
IISL also didnt  accept  our adjudicators  view.  It said:
Mr M had a number  of opportunities  to clarify  what  type of scheme  he held 
with his existing  provider.  If he had completed  the transfer  in form correctly  
then the delay  with this transfer  wouldnt  have  occurred.  Therefore,  it 
doesnt  accept  that its responsible  for the reduction  in Mr Ms transfer  
value.
when  Mr M wrote  to IISL on 13 February  he knew  his transfer  value  had 
decreased.  It wouldve  expected  him to decide  whether  he wanted  the 
transfer  to go ahead,  rather  than adding  a caveat,  that it should  only go 
ahead  if IISL cover  the difference.  This is not something  it wouldve  agreed  to 
do 
it had acted  upon  his letter  of 24 January  2018,  received  on 26 January  2018,  
then based  on Mr Ms caveat,  the transfer  wouldnt  have  gone  ahead.  If the 
funds  had remained  with Mr Ms existing  provider,  it wouldve  been  subject  to 
Ref: DRN82870664further  fluctuations.  When  the money  was credited  to Mr Ms SIPP  on 28 
February,  it was no longer  at risk of decreasing  further,  but he didnt  start 
investing  it until 6 September  2018.
provisional  decision
As agreement  couldnt  be reached  Mr Ms complaint  came  to me for a decision.  I issued  
a provisional  decision  on Mr Ms complaint  in August  2020.  I said I was minded  to 
uphold  it, but that as my reasons  for doing  so were  different  from our adjudicators,  and I 
was minded  to make  a different  order  for redress,  I was providing  both Mr M and IISL 
with an opportunity  to comment  before  I issued  my final decision.
Mr M responded  and said,  in summary,  he didnt  have  anything  further  to add other  
than that three  different  providers  called  his scheme  a retirement  benefit  scheme.  
This caused  delay  and couldve  led to additional  cost if he had had to unnecessarily  
supply  a FAD.  IISL said it had nothing  further  to add. Mr Ms complaint  comes  back  to 
me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Having  done  so, I see no reason  
to depart  from my provisional  decision  and so I uphold  this complaint.  My reasons  
are the same  as set out in that provisional  decision,  which  I will repeat  below.  
FAD form
IISLs  position  now seems  to be that Mr M didnt  complete  the transfer  in form 
correctly.  If Ive understood  its position  correctly,  by referring  to the scheme  as a 
"retirement  benefit  scheme"  this led IISL to believe  a FAD may be required,  because  it 
couldve  been  a scheme  with safeguarded  benefits.  I accept  that it wouldnt  have  been  
clear  what  type of scheme  Mr M was a member  of from this description.  But a generic  
reference  like this, in my experience,  wouldnt  of itself,  indicate  either  way whether  a 
FAD was required.  So, I can understand  why IISL would  need  to clarify  the position.
In my view,  Mr M clarified  things  with IISL at the first opportunity  given.  He telephoned  
it on 19 January  2018,  in response  to IISLs  letter  of 16 January  2018,  asking  for the 
FAD.  The outcome  of that conversation  is that IISL gave  him incorrect  information  
about  the need  for a FAD.  I say that, because  Mr M didnt  complete  a FAD,  and yet 
the transfer  went  ahead,  so it seems  unlikely  that one was ever required.
Mr M also contacted  IISL by letter  again  on 24 January  2018,  received  by IISL on 26 
January  2018,  to clarify  the same.  It seems  he got another  incorrect  response  from 
IISL on 30 January  2018,  about  the need  for a FAD.
Ive noted  that in its final response  letter  to Mr M dated  3 April 2018,  that IISL at 
that time acknowledged  that it had incorrectly  asked  him for a FAD during  the 
phone  call on 19 January  2018,  and incorrectly  chased  this up again.  It put this 
down  to "human  error".  It upheld  Mr Ms complaint  on this basis.  So, its not clear  to 
me why now,  IISL seems,  to be going  back  on this original  position.
Ref: DRN82870665Either  way,  my view is that, IISL shouldve  been  in a position  to action  Mr Ms 
transfer  request  from 19 January  2018,  when  it ought  to have  been  clear  to it that 
a FAD wasnt  required.
However,  Mr M appears  to be arguing  his case  from two perspectives,  as I see it:
(1)that the transfer  was delayed  causing  him loss,  so the original  8 
January  2018  quotation  should  be honoured  (delay);  or
(2)that the transfer  shouldnt  have  gone  ahead  because  by the time IISL 
progressed  his transfer,  hed effectively  withdrawn  his transfer  instructions  as 
IISL was not prepared  to honour  the 8 January  2018  quotation,  causing  him 
loss (revocation  of instructions).  
delay
Mr M said that at the outset,  when  selecting  IISL to work  with,  he was told that cash  
transfers  usually  could  be completed  within  one to two weeks.  IISL said in its final 
response  letter  of 3 April 2018,  that although  it accepted  that the transfer  couldve  been  
done  quicker,  it was still done  within  its transfer  service  level  of 6-8 weeks.  I have  not 
been  provided  with any documentation  to back  up either  assertion  about  usual  
timescales.
In its letter  to this service  dated  24 April 2018,  IISL said it wanted  to supply  some  
extra  information.  It said due to its workloads  at the time,  Mr Ms letter  received  
by it on
26 January  2018,  was not reviewed  by it, until 5 February  2018.
It said on 5 February  2018,  it initiated  the transfer  with its SIPP  administrators  and the 
SIPP  administrators  sent instructions  to Mr Ms existing  pension  scheme  provider  on 15 
February  2018.  It said it acknowledged  receiving  Mr Ms letter  dated  13 February  2018  
on 14 February  2018,  but it was passed  to the complaints  team  and the transfer  process  
was already  underway  and it was too late to cancel  the transfer.
I note that when  IISL did action  Mr Ms transfer  request,  the transfer  appears  to have  
been  completed  within  23 days  - the SIPP  administrator  being  instructed  to action  the 
request  on 5 February  2018,  and the money  having  been  credited  to Mr Ms SIPP  on 
28 February  2018.  I think  this therefore  provides  a fair indication  of the timescale  for 
dealing  with this part of the transfer  process.
Ordinarily,  had this been  a case  purely  been  about  transfer  delay,  I wouldve  said that 
the transfer  ought  to have  been  completed  by around  12 February  2018  (23 days  from 
19 January  2018,  when  IISL had the information  required  to progress  the transfer  
application).
However,  although  I have  concluded  that there  was a delay  that IISL was responsible  
for, I cant  reasonably  require  IISL to honour  the previous  transfer  quote  dated  8 
January  2018,  as Mr M expected  it to. It was a quote,  it wasnt  guaranteed  and even  
had everything  been  done  right,  under  no circumstances  could  the transfer  to the SIPP  
Ref: DRN82870666have  been  completed  by 8 January  2018.  From  what  Ive been  told Mr M didnt  return  
the paperwork  to IISL,  to open  the SIPP,  until around  10 January  2018.
So, I cannot  fairly  uphold  this part of Mr Ms complaint.  Where  something  has gone  
wrong  this service  looks  to put a consumer  back  in the position  they wouldve  been  
in but for the error  or omission.  Had the issue  with the FAD not arisen,  looking  at 
the timing  of events  here,  the transfer  still wouldnt  have  gone  ahead  using  the 8 
January  2018  transfer  quotation.  So, I cant  reasonably  require  IISL to honour  that 
quotation.
did Mr M revoke  his instructions  to transfer?
So, I have  gone  on to consider  whether  this is in fact a delay  case,  or whether  by the 
time IISL came  to action  Mr Ms earlier  transfer  request,  he had in fact revoked  his 
earlier  instructions  to transfer.
In his letter  of 13 February  2018,  Mr M, in my view,  made  it very clear  that if IISL 
was not prepared  to honour  the transfer  quotation  provided  on 8 January  2018,  it 
should  not go ahead  with his transfer.  
IISL has recently  said,  Mr M should  never  have  included  this caveat  in his 
correspondence,  and it would  never  have  agreed  to that. The fact is that    Mr M did 
include  this caveat  in his correspondence.  But IISL failed  to respond.  It didnt  tell him 
what  its position  was on this, in its email  of 19 February,  when  it told him that his 
transfer  was being  progressed.  It didnt  respond  to his email  later that day querying  
whether  it had agreed  to pay the full transfer  value  as at 8 January  2018.  It didnt  
respond  on this point,  in its final response  letter  dated  3 April 2018.
For the reasons  explained  above,  I cant  say that IISLs  decision  not to honour  the 8 
January  2018  transfer  quotation  was an unfair  one. But, it shouldve  either  gone  back  
to Mr M to clarify  that, to allow  him to reconsider  his options.  Or, alternatively,  based  
on the clear  instructions  I think  Mr M provided  IISL with,  it should  not have  progressed  
the transfer.  It didnt  do either,  so I think  IISL did something  wrong.
IISL said in its response  that, by the time it received  Mr Ms 13 February  2018  letter  
imposing  the caveat,  it was too late to cancel  the transfer  request.  I dont  share  this 
view.  Looking  at the timeline,  the SIPP  administrators  didnt  write  to Mr Ms existing  
provider  until 15 February  2018,  two days  after IISL receiving  his caveated  letter,  only 
then sending  on the transfer  paperwork.  So, I think  it was still possible  not to proceed  
with the transfer  at this point.
As I see it, IISL failed  to take on board  Mr Ms instructions  to cancel  the transfer.  The 
transfer  therefore  went  ahead  contrary  to Mr Ms instructions.  Having  decided  this, 
as I see it, this isnt a case  about  delay,  but about  IISL progressing  the transfer  after 
Mr M revoked  his earlier  instructions  to do so.
cooling  off period
I have  considered  whether  Mr M couldve  cancelled  the transfer  within  the 30 day 
cooling  off period,  effectively  mitigating  his own loss here.  But, looking  at the timeline  
Ref: DRN82870667of events,  I cant  see that IISL made  it clear,  within  any cooling  off period,  that it was 
not going  to honour  the 8 January  2018  quotation.  So, this doesnt  change  my view.
I therefore  need  to consider  whether  Mr M has lost out as a result  of what  IISL did 
wrong.
financial  loss
In my view,  based  on Mr Ms instructions  at the time,  if he had known  he wouldnt  
have  received  the 8 January  2018  transfer  value  he expected,  he wouldnt  have  
proceeded  with the transfer.  I say this, in part noting  the clear  instructions  he gave  
IISL at the time,  but also taking  into account  that he said he particularly  wanted  the 
transfer  to go ahead  in January  2018,  as his fund value  was at its highest  for three  
years  and he expected  it to go down.  So, this suggests  he was watching  the market  
carefully,  to pick the right time to transfer.
So, in considering  an order  for redress,  Ive looked  at what  the position  wouldve  
been,  had Mr M remained  invested  in his original  plan.  The provider  of the original  
plan has told this service  that he wouldve  been  able to take a 25% PCLS  from that 
plan.  But the 25% PCLS  he wouldve  been  entitled  to, following  the 
miscommunication  with IILS and delay  arising  from that, wouldve  been  around  the 
same.  His policy  was valued  at £171.336  on 20 February  2018.  So, I cant  see that Mr 
M wouldve  financially  been  better  off, if he had taken  his PCLS  from his former  
scheme.
Its possible  that Mr M may not have  taken  his PCLS  at all. After  all, he said his policy  
was at a three  year high in January  2018.  Ive not been  told that this transfer  can now 
be completely  unwound,  so I cant  make  an order  for redress  based  on it being  
unwound.  This wouldve  involved  Mr M returning  the PCLS  he received,  and his former  
provider  being  prepared  to re-instate  his old plan.  I asked  Mr M and IISL to let me 
know  if they considered  this feasible.  Neither  said it was.  So, it seems  it isnt possible  
to reinstate  Mr Ms original  plan.
I am conscious  that Mr M has had access  to the PCLS  money  he accessed  over two 
years  ago, to use as he wanted  since  then.  Ive also taken  into account  that it was 
open  to Mr M to invest  the balance  of his fund in his new SIPP,  rather  than leaving  it in 
the cash  fund.  Im told, he didnt  begin  investing  it until September  2018.  Mr M told us 
he didnt  invest  it, in case  his fund had to be transferred  back  to the original  provider.  
But, I cant  see that he returned  the PCLS,  on the basis  that may have  to be returned  
too. So, I cant  fairly  hold IISL responsible  for any investment  loss whilst  the money  
remained  in the cash  fund of his SIPP  account.
However,  what  I can see here is that IILS has caused  Mr M a considerable  amount  of 
trouble  and upset  by its errors,  actions  and omissions.  Firstly,  by repeatedly  
miscommunicating  the need  for a FAD,  on a number  of occasions,  leading  to delay  
and the potential  for financial  loss.  Secondly,  by then going  ahead  and processing  the 
transfer,  he had quite  clearly  told it not to, unless  it was prepared  to use a transfer  
value  as at 8 January  2018,  which  it didnt.  Thirdly,  by failing  to respond  to his 
enquiries  about  whether  it intended  to use this transfer  value,  preventing  him for 
reassessing  his options  at the time.  
Ref: DRN82870668I consider  that £1,500  would  be a fair amount  to compensate  him for this trouble  and 
upset  to his retirement  planning  caused  by these  failures.  I think  this level  of award  is 
consistent  with others  made  by this service.
my final  decision
I uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and to order  Interactive  Investor  Services  Limited  to pay   
Mr M £1,500  for his trouble  and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2021.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8287066