K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank  Plc (TSB Bank) mis-sold him a range of packaged bank 
accounts.
background
Mr S came into the UK in late 2006.  In March 2007  he needed a bank account.  Following  a 
meeting he took out a Select Account with TSB Bank which incurred a monthly fee.
In May 2009, October 2010 and November 2011 Mr S upgraded to Silver, Gold and Platinum 
accounts respectively  following further meetings.
In May 2012  Mr S upgraded to a Premier account  online.
TSB Bank has refunded Mr S the difference in fees between the Silver and the Gold and 
Platinum accounts  on the basis that only the Silver account was suitable for Mr S during that 
period.
TSB Bank has not upheld Mr Ss complaint about  the Select account or the Premier account,  
the latter of which Mr S still holds. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint about  the Select account and agreed that TSB 
Banks actions on the remainder were appropriate. But TSB Bank  disagrees so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ss complaint.
the Select account  sale in March 2007
Mr S says he didnt understand English at all well in 2006 when he arrived in the country and 
it wasnt made clear to him by TSB Bank  that he could have had a fee free bank account. 
In my view you would need a good  standard of speaking and reading English to understand 
the various types of bank account  available and to fill in the documentation  required to open  
an account. TSB Bank agrees that it had a conversation in a branch prior to opening  the 
account.
Mr S says his standard of speaking  English was limited  and his reading of English  was poor. 
I find this credible as it is not his first language, and although by March  2007 he had been  in 
this country a few months, its not uncommon  for people not to develop  their language skills 
in such a short period of time when living in another country. 
In Mr Ss home  country, it was usual for fees to be paid for bank accounts. So, I think  its 
credible that Mr S would  need to be advised  carefully and have it drawn to his attention  that 
he could choose  to take out a fee free bank account.  
Ref: DRN80612292TSB Bank has provided  evidence that it filled out a YPSOR (your personal  summary of our 
recommendations) form with Mr S so I think its more likely than not this was an advised  
sale. This meant that TSB bank  needed to check that the Select Account was suitable  for 
him. The Select account benefits included car breakdown service, mobile phone  insurance 
and sentinel card protection. Mr S says that he didnt have a car or a mobile phone at the 
time of the sale and I cant see evidence that he used these key benefits  while  he had the 
product. So, I cant say that I think the Select account was suitable for him.
So, I think its more likely  than not that Mr S didnt choose the account because he wanted it. 
And in my view, it follows that I dont think he was given a clear choice whether to take out 
the Select account  as opposed to a fee free account.
So, I think Mr S lost out when TSB Bank sold him the Select account in 2007.
the Silver, Gold  and Platinum accounts
TSB Bank has provided  evidence that Mr S applied for each account following a meeting 
and a discussion about his circumstances. For the Silver account sale, I think  Mr S had had 
enough time in the country to become aware that fee free accounts were  available, and he 
signed the application form for it, so I think he knew he had a choice and chose to take it out.
For the same reasons  I think he also chose to take out the Gold  and Platinum  accounts.  
However, I agree with TSB Banks assessment that the Silver account was suitable  for Mr S 
in May 2009  as he was able to use most of the benefits which by then included  travel 
insurance. But the Gold and Platinum account provided benefits  that he didnt need and 
were not suitable  for him in his circumstances.
So I think TSBs action in returning the difference between the Silver account  fees and the 
Gold and Platinum fees for the periods concerned, with interest was appropriate.
the Premier account  sale
TSB bank  has provided evidence that Mr S took out this account on line, and that Mr S still 
has it. As this was an online sale, TSB Bank  didnt provide any advice or recommendation to 
Mr S, so it was only required to provide enough  information for him to make  an informed 
decision. And I think it did. I say this because Ive looked at the screen shots  of the online 
sale TSB Bank has provided, and I think there was enough information  there  for him to make 
his decision. And if he subsequently didnt value the account, he could have downgraded it 
at any time, but he hasnt.  
So, I dont uphold his complaint about  the Premier account sale.
For completeness I see that Mr S originally complained about overdraft and returned direct  
debit charges he incurred. I agree with our adjudicator that having  looked at Mr Ss 
accounts, the account fees were not the sole cause  of the charges he received. I note that 
TSB bank  has paid Mr S a gesture of goodwill in this respect and I think  thats a reasonable 
way to resolve that aspect of the complaint.
In summary,  my finding  is that the only action TSB bank  needs to take in addition  to what it 
has already done  is to refund the fees that Mr S paid for his Select  account  over the period 
he had it with appropriate interest.
Ref: DRN80612293putting things right
I require TSB Bank Plc to: 
Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the Select account.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr S has saved  money because of a better rate on his overdraft or loan by having  the 
packaged account and TSB Bank  can show exactly how much Mr S saved, it may 
deduct these savings from the amount it pays him  but only after it has calculated  the 
two points above. TSB Bank must explain clearly and simply to Mr S how it has worked 
out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  TSB Bank to take off tax from this interest. TSB Bank must  give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require TSB Bank Plc to put 
things right as Ive described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8061229