K820x#14complaint
Mr O complained about how esure Insurance Limited handled his claim under his motor  
insurance policy after his car was written off.
background
Mr Os car was damaged  in an accident and esure said that it was uneconomical to repair. 
They offered  Mr O his cars  market  value, less his policy  excess. But he didnt think that was 
enough. He also wanted to keep  the car, and repair it himself. Esure were  willing  to let Mr O 
keep the car, as long as Mr Os car finance  company agreed. But esure  also wanted to 
deduct his car's salvage value from the market value  theyd offered. Mr O thought  their 
salvage deduction was too much. 
The investigator didnt  think that his complaint should be upheld.  She thought that both 
esures valuation  and salvage  amount were  reasonable  and that esure had made a fair 
settlement for the car.
Mr O didnt agree and so his case has been  passed to me to decide.
He was also unhappy with the provider of the finance agreement  for his car. This service has 
dealt with that as a separate complaint  and so I wont comment  on that matter here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O was entitled to the market value of his car. This is an amount that reflects  the cars  
value immediately before  the incident. It takes  into account a number of factors including the 
cars age, condition, mileage and specification. 
Mr O had obtained an independent engineers inspection  report  of his car after the accident. 
It said that the cars market value was £13,500  and that its salvage value was £675. Esure 
accepted what  that engineer had said about the cars market value, so they offered  £13,500.  
As the adjudicator explained  to Mr O, we dont decide what a car is worth.  Our approach  is 
to look at a number of motor guides  that are used to value second-hand cars. We think  these  
guides are a reliable  indication  as to value as theyre based on nationwide research  of likely 
car selling prices. The adjudicator looked at the trade guides valuations, taking into account 
the cars  mileage, condition and features. She saw that the market value which esure  offered 
was fair as it was in line with the trade guides,  and I agree with that. 
So, I dont think esure did anything wrong  or unfair in relation to the market value they 
placed on Mr Os car.
Esure wanted to deduct Mr Os policy excess from the market value they offered. An excess 
applies on any claim and I see that the excess amounts  were  stated in Mr Os policys  
schedule. So I think that he had agreed to pay this. This means that esure  are entitled to 
deduct that from the settlement offer. 
Ref: DRN84673622When an insurer pays a market value  for car, they can keep the car and sell it for salvage.  
Alternatively they can agree to a consumer  keeping the car, but make  a deduction from the 
market value offer to reflect  the cars salvage value. We agree that an insurer  may do that, 
and that the charge can be a percentage of the cars market value, as long as its not 
unreasonably high.
Esure said that the car was a Category S write  off which meant  that, even though it was 
uneconomic for esure to repair,  it could be repaired and sold on. Mr O wanted to keep the 
car and repair  it himself. Esure were agreeable to him keeping  the car, subject to the car 
finance company  agreeing to that. But they wanted  to make a salvage deduction of 35% of 
the cars  market value.  They  said that this reflected what theyd hope to sell it for in the open 
market and they felt that it was a legitimate commercial decision.  In an attempt to 
compromise with Mr O, esure later reduced this to 25%. But Mr O still felt that was too much.  
He didnt think that it was realistic  given what repair the car needed; he said that the car 
wouldnt start and the bodywork had a lot of damage. He thought  that esure should only 
deduct the £675 that the independent engineer advised in his report. He felt that, as esure  
had accepted the engineers recommendation about market value, they should also accept 
his recommendation  about salvage value. 
But I dont think that follows, because esure  will have their own commercial arrangements for 
dealing with salvage. In this case esure have given us information to show us that for other  
cars theyve  been  able to achieve a resale value reflecting the salvage percent they claim. 
So theyve demonstrated that the salvage value they want  to deduct  in Mr Os case was 
reasonable, and I cant say that their decision was unfair. Mr O wanted to see the 
information about those other cars esure provided, including  their repair costs, but as the 
adjudicator has explained,  esure arent  obliged to divulge that, as its commercially  sensitive 
information. I do see that its been  frustrating  for Mr O that his car was written off and that 
resolving the situation has put him to some time and trouble, but I dont think  thats esures 
fault. Overall I dont think that esure  have been unfair or unreasonable in dealing with Mr Os 
claim. And as esure havent done  anything wrong  I dont ask them  to change their settlement  
offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr O to accept or reject  
my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8467362