K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr C and Miss A say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold them  
the PPI.
background
Mr C and Miss A took out a mortgage in 1995.  At the same time a PPI policy  was taken out. 
They paid a monthly amount for the cover.
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, only Mr C was covered by the policy  for accident,  
sickness and unemployment cover.  If he had made  a successful claim, the policy  would have 
paid out the repayment  benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C and Miss A disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C and Miss As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate  Mr C feels very strongly  about  this 
matter and so this will be disappointing for him. Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this 
outcome.
I think  Halifax made it clear that Mr C and Miss A didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that 
they chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember  this.
Halifax has provided copies of internal records from its system which show a list of 
questions relating to the PPI cover  including questions about  Mr Cs employment  status  
and health  and answers have been  detailed  next to these questions.  Mr C and Miss A 
have said they dont remember any discussion about the policy so they think  it was added 
without their knowledge. Halifax has said it would have made the optional nature clear.  
Neither Mr C and Miss A nor Halifax has been  able to provide any of the paperwork for the 
sale of the PPI. This means  I dont have  any notes to show  what discussions may have 
taken place or any copies of paperwork that Mr C and Miss A may have seen or signed   
but this isnt surprising considering the length of time that has passed. I also need to take 
into account that recollections  of a sale from over 23 years  ago may have been affected 
over time.
When there is limited information available, I have to determine what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in the circumstances. In order for me to agree with Mr C and Miss A, Id 
have to think  it was more  likely Halifax purposefully added the PPI to their account without 
discussing it with them. While I agree this is possible, I dont think its the most likely 
scenario. Instead,  in the absence of any information  persuading  me otherwise, I think its 
Ref: DRN85388522more likely Halifax made Mr C and Miss A aware that they had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that they chose  to take it, knowing they could refuse  it if they didnt want  it.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr C and Miss A. This means it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time, I 
think that it was. He was eligible for the cover and it doesnt seem he was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as unusual working arrangements or 
suffering from a medical condition of which he was already  aware. 
And he seems to have had a need for the cover.  Mr C has told us that he would have 
received full sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work. I understand he has since  
been advised by his employer at the time that he would  only have received payment for up to 
14 weeks, which I note Mr C thinks is inaccurate. But in any event, this policy  would have 
paid out the monthly benefit  for up to 12 months  and this would be in addition to, as well as 
potentially longer than, any sick pay he may have received. And it would have provided 
cover for the same length of time if he was to have lost his job. Mr C has told us he had 
some savings but this policy would have  enabled  him to protect those savings  for another  
purpose or use them to help pay for other essential  living expenses. A mortgage is a large 
financial commitment secured against  your home  and so I think  Mr C and Miss A would have 
been reassured that their home  was protected if anything  was to go wrong.
Its possible  the information Halifax gave Mr C and Miss A about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think its more likely they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover.  And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if they had fallen on 
hard times. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about  the 
PPI would have  put them  off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr C and Miss A have said  including what  Mr C has said 
about not claiming when he was made redundant from a job. Mr C says that he didnt claim 
as he didnt know he had the policy and so this shows that it wasnt discussed  with him. Ive 
considered very carefully his comments and I understand why he thinks  this is important. But 
this complaint is considering the sale of the policy and, as Ive already mentioned,  I think  its 
more likely that Mr C and Miss A consented  to taking out the policy in 1995 - so I dont  think 
the policy was mis-sold.  But if Mr C believes he may have been able to make a claim under 
the policy he should contact the insurer to discuss submitting a backdated  claim for when he 
wasnt working.
So when taking  everything into consideration I dont think Mr C and Miss A have lost out as a 
result of anything that Halifax  may have done  wrong. So it therefore follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN85388523my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss A 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8538852