K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr D took out a mortgage with Lloyds in January 1997. Lloyds hasnt been  able to confirm 
when or how Mr D bought  the PPI. Mr D says it was sold in a meeting after hed completed 
his mortgage application.
Mr D says he was taken  to a separate room and was pressured into buying  PPI. He says he 
wasnt told the PPI was optional and that emotive words  were used by Lloyds to elicit a 
feeling of necessity rather than objectivity. So he says he felt duty bound to agree to what 
was being sold.
Mr D was also unhappy with how Lloyds handled his complaint. He says he explained  it had 
refunded him premiums  for PPI sold by the same  team at the same  branch of the bank when 
his circumstances  were the same  as when he took out the mortgage. So he says he didnt 
understand why Lloyds  wasnt refunding him the premiums this time round. Mr D says 
Lloyds didnt say anything about this aspect of his complaint in its response to him. He was 
also unhappy with the time Lloyds took to respond to his complaint. 
Lloyds offered Mr D £50 as compensation for its delay in responding to Mr Ds complaint but 
didnt think it had done anything wrong  in handling the rest of his complaint.  Mr D has 
accepted Lloyds offer in respect of this aspect of his complaint.  So I havent considered it in 
this decision and have  only looked at the sale of Mr Ds PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ds complaint about the sale of the PPI didnt uphold it.   
Mr D disagrees  and so his complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give will help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Lloyds doesnt  have any paperwork or other records from the time of the sale to show  me 
how it sold the PPI to Mr D. Ive looked  carefully  at how Mr D says it was sold and, in 
particular, that he was pressured into buying  it. This is a very subjective  area,  because  what  
one person might consider a reasonable  line of enquiry to enable a customer  to consider if 
PPI is right for them,  another may not. From  what Mr D says happened,  I dont  have enough 
to persuade me he was put under unfair pressure to take out a policy  that he did not want or 
need. I think its more  likely he was persuaded to think about whether PPI was appropriate 
for him in his circumstances. 
In the absence of any paperwork from the time of the sale, Ive also looked at what we know  
generally about how Lloyds sold PPI with mortgages  around  this time. And from what weve 
seen, its normal process  was to make  it clear to a customer they had a choice about PPI and 
Ref: DRN82676232to get their agreement to it. Its possible Lloyds didnt follow its normal  process in Mr Ds 
case. But I think its more  likely it did and that Mr D agreed to the PPI knowing he had a 
choice about it.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons  why I should uphold Mr Ds complaint but I 
dont think there are. Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr D, so it needed to make 
sure it was right for him. I dont  know what steps it took to do this. But from the limited  
information Ive got about Mr Ds circumstances  at the time and from the policy details  that 
are likely to have applied,  I think it was. I say this because:
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr D wasnt eligible for the PPI or would  be 
caught by the main  things his policy was unlikely to cover  like known health issues  
or unusual employment terms.
I think the PPI couldve been of use to him. Mr D says he cant remember  what  sick 
pay he got and he doesnt mention any other ways  apart from through his parents  
hed be able to pay his mortgage if he was off work sick or lost his job. Family help 
cant always be guaranteed and I understand  the PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit 
that wouldve  more  than covered his mortgage for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident, sickness  or unemployment  claim he made. Bearing in mind  a 
mortgage is a significant financial commitment, secured on your home  which is at 
risk if you fall behind on your repayments  I think the PPI couldve given Mr D 
important peace of mind if things  got difficult.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr D couldnt afford the cover.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Lloyds also had to give Mr D enough  clear  
information for him to make that decision himself in an informed way. As before, I dont know  
what steps Lloyds  took to do this, and some things  may not have been explained as clearly  
as they shouldve been. But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mr D agreed to the cover  and I 
think it was right for him. So I dont think clearer information, if it had been needed, wouldve 
stopped him going ahead with it.
I know Mr D says Lloyds has refunded him premiums for PPI sold with another  product that 
he took out when he says his circumstances were the same as in this complaint. I cant 
comment on that. All I can say is that, on the facts  and circumstances of this particular 
complaint, and for the reasons Ive given,  I dont think  Lloyds mis-sold  this PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8267623