K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Arrow Global Limited is unfairly  chasing him for a debt. This complaint 
has been brought on his behalf  by a professional representative.
background
Mr N entered into a credit agreement with a third party.  This agreement  was transferred to 
Arrow in December 2011. And Arrow is seeking repayment of the outstanding debt.
In April 2018 Mr Ns representative complained  that Arrow hadnt provided information  
including a copy of the original credit  agreement or a signed statement. They  argue  this 
means Arrow cant enforce the agreement.  
The representative also said Mr N feels the original lending  was irresponsible.  And 
complained that Arrow hadnt updated  Credit Reference Agencies as to the status of the 
debt.
Arrow partially upheld  the complaint and apologised for the time it took to respond to 
requests for information. It explained  it hadnt  been able to obtain a copy  of the original credit  
agreement and had updated the account as being  unenforceable, meaning it would not be 
pursuing the matter  through the courts. But it said the account remained outstanding and 
repayments were due to be made. And asked  Mr N to get in contact to discuss this.
Arrow also said it couldnt comment on any irresponsible lending  concerns as it wasnt  party  
to the account  when  it was opened.  But it provided a list of payments it had received towards 
the debt and evidence that it hadnt added any charges to the account. 
Mr N continues to dispute the debt and says Arrow isnt able to demonstrate that it properly 
accumulated in accordance with the contract. His representative has asked that Arrow write 
off the debt, or reduce  it to an amount it can demonstrate is outstanding, and pay Mr N 
compensation.
Our investigator noted that there was no evidence of a signed credit  agreement.  But said 
that in their opinion Mr N had entered into an agreement and was reasonably  aware that the 
debt existed. The investigator explained  that it wasnt for him to determine  whether or not the 
debt is enforceable  by law. And said that he didnt think  Arrows pursuit of the outstanding 
amount was unreasonable or unfair.  He also said that he hadnt  seen any evidence  that 
Mr Ns credit file was being unfairly  impacted  by this matter.
Mr N didnt accept our investigators view. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Another similar complaint  has been raised  with Arrow by the professional representative 
acting on behalf  of Mr N in this case. I can see there  has previously been some  
administrative confusion,  so to be clear, I am not able to look at the details of that complaint 
here. I am only looking at the information relevant to Mr Ns complaint and the account held 
with Arrow  in his name (as our investigator has clarified to the parties he considered).  
Ref: DRN82845822As our investigator explained, its not the role of this service to determine whether or not a 
debt is legally enforceable. Thats a decision that only a court can make. 
In this case Arrow says it has recorded  that the debt is unenforceable  and that it will not 
pursue the matter in the courts. But it feels its acting reasonably  when asking Mr N to make 
repayments towards the outstanding balance. Mr N disagrees.
Where evidence is incomplete or not available I have to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think is most  likely to have happened given the evidence and 
arguments provided.
Arrow hasnt  been able to produce a copy of the original credit agreement Mr N entered  into 
with the third party. But Mr N hasnt disputed that he entered into such  an agreement.  Arrow  
has provided us with a copy  of a notice of assignment addressed  to Mr N and dated 
15 January 2012.  And a log from the original credit agreement provider showing account 
activity prior to the transfer  to Arrow  (from  March 2003 to the end of 2011). 
Its also shown us a statement  from its system  containing details of activity  on the account 
since December 2011. I can see from this that regular monthly  repayments  were made to 
reduce the balance until May 2017. And that Arrow  hasnt added any fees or charges to the 
account.  
Like our investigator,  Im of the opinion these repayments show  that Mr N was aware of the 
debt, and suggests he accepted that repayment was due. So I think Arrow  has reasonable 
grounds to believe  the debt is owed by Mr N. I also think that the nature of the repayment 
arrangements that were  previously in place (most recently for £13.77  a month) show that 
Arrow did take into account Mr Ns financial situation, and make allowances for the financial 
difficulties he was facing.
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  the amount Arrow says it is owed was disputed  prior 
to this complaint  being made.  Which  again  suggests  to me that, on balance,  its likely Mr N 
felt that the amount Arrow  said he owed when it took over the agreement was correct  . Ive 
also seen evidence that Mr N was subject to a debt management programme, and the debt 
management company  engaged with Arrow on his behalf. And I think its likely the debt 
management company  would  have  taken steps  to check the amounts Mr N owed  before  
making offers of repayment. 
Im sorry  to hear Mr N has been  experiencing financial difficulties. I do empathise,  and I can 
understand why he might  be concerned  Arrow is asking him to make repayments  towards  
this debt. But I havent seen anything to suggest Arrow is asking him to repay  amounts that 
he cannot afford. And I can see that in its final response letter Arrow signposted some 
independent debt advice organisations that may be able to assist Mr N. I think  this was a 
reasonable step for it to take.
I understand Mr N has concerns that the original lending was irresponsible. But as Arrow 
was not the original lender, I cannot consider this here. And I dont think  its reasonable to 
suggest that Arrow had a responsibility  to review the underwriting  of the agreement when it 
purchased the debt.   
Ref: DRN82845823Concerns have also been raised about  the impact this account is having  on Mr Ns credit 
score. But, as our investigator noted,  we havent been provided any evidence of this. Arrow 
says that a default was applied to the account by the third party prior to its purchase  of the 
debt in 2011. Which would mean that, as more than 6 years  as passed, the account is no 
longer being reported  by Credit Reference  Agencies. And as Ive said, its not for this service  
to make a decision as to whether the debt is legally enforceable  or unenforceable.
I understand Mr N and his representative  are disappointed with the amount of time it took 
Arrow to respond to their request for documents. Arrow has already apologised for this, and I 
can see from the system notes it has provided  to us that it did take steps to contact the 
original credit agreement provider, and put Mr Ns account on hold during  this period, which  I 
think was reasonable.
I know Mr N will likely  be disappointed by my decision, but for the reasons Ive outlined  
above I think its likely Mr N is responsible for this debt.  So I dont think  Arrow has acted 
unfairly when asking him to reach  a repayment  arrangement. And having looked closely at 
its records of contact  with Mr N, I also havent  concluded that Arrow has taken unreasonable  
steps to pursue the debt,  or behaved in an aggressive manner.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8284582