K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Places  for People Financial Services  Limited  mis-sold her equity loan.  
She wants Places for People  to pay her a suitable amount of compensation.
background
In 2008, Ms W took out a 40% equity loan for £93,600 through Places  for People as part of 
her property purchase.
Ms W complained to Places for People  in 2018 that the equity loan had been  mis-sold. She 
said in particular:
She had never been told that if she re-mortgaged to repay the loan she would need to 
pay for the property  to be revalued  and then repay 40% of the property value;
She was unhappy  that Places  for People  refused  her permission to rent out the property 
in 2012, and had lost a job opportunity  as a result;
She felt that Places for People had unfairly  charged her £134.74 for switching the bank 
account from which her direct debits were  taken;
She was unhappy  that the monthly repayments  were increasing from June 2018.
Places for People didnt uphold her complaint,  so Ms W brought  it to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Ms Ws complaint should be upheld.  He said,  in 
summary:
Although Ms W had said that Places for People  hadnt explained  the terms of the loan to 
her, the loan offer sent to her in June 2008  said that it didnt give her advice, and she 
was making her own decision. The loan offer clearly  set out the terms, and Ms Ws 
solicitors had confirmed that they had explained  the terms to her;
Ms W said that Places for People hadnt explained that if she wanted to re-mortgage she 
would need to pay for a basic property valuation, and then pay 40% of the current 
property value when  she repaid  the loan. But this was set out in the loan offer document;
He didnt think that Places for People  had done anything wrong by refusing Ms Ws 
request to let out the property. Although  the terms of the scheme  stated that the property 
must be entirely for residential purposes Places for People would consider allowing 
borrowers to let their property under  exceptional  circumstances. Ms W didnt meet  the 
requirements and so wasnt allowed to let the property;
Ms W had queried why Places  for People appeared to have added  £134.74  to her loan 
when she changed the bank account from which her direct debits were collected.  
However, this amount  had only shown on the letter  Ms W received because interest had 
been added  before  her payment had been  received.  Places for People had confirmed 
that the loan balance  was still £93,600;
Section 4 of the loan offer said that the loan interest would  increase  after the first five 
years, then again after ten years. As this was clearly documented and in line with the 
Ref: DRN88725842loan terms he couldnt say that Places  for People had done anything wrong by increasing 
Ms Ws payments from June 2018.
Ms W doesnt agree with our investigators  conclusions and has asked  for her complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for much the same reasons.  I appreciate that this will 
come as a disappointment  to Ms W, so Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Ms W has said that Places for People  didnt  explain the terms of the equity loan to her. But 
Ive seen a copy  of the loan offer document sent to Ms W in 2008. This makes  it clear that 
Places for People didnt give her advice,  and that she was making her own choice on 
whether to proceed. Having reviewed  the documentation, Im satisfied  that the loan offer set 
out the terms of the loan. And I note that Ms Ws solicitors  confirmed  that they had explained 
the terms of the loan to her. As Places  for People didnt give Ms W advice, it was for Ms W 
to satisfy herself on the terms  of the loan,  and to raise any queries that she might have 
before deciding to proceed.
Ms W says that she wasnt told that if she wanted  to re-mortgage she would need to pay for 
a valuation and would  need to pay 40% of the current property value to repay the loan. But 
Im satisfied that this information is set out in section 9 of the loan offer,  which states:
If you no longer want this loan, either because you arrange a new mortgage with another  
lender or sell the property, then we will arrange  a basic mortgage  valuation of your property 
which you will have  to pay for. You will then have to pay us 40% of the valuation
I appreciate that Ms W was unhappy that Places  for People wouldnt agree to her letting  her 
property, which led her to miss out on a job opportunity. But, as Places for People explained, 
it is required to follow the government rules that require a public funded property to remain 
the purchasers main  residence.  I can see that Places for People told Ms W that letting 
requests were assessed by individual merit and in accordance with its own approved policy.  
And, from the evidence  Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Places for People acted unfairly in 
applying its policy in Ms Ws case.
Ms W says that Places for People  charged her £134.74 when she changed the bank account 
from which her direct  debit was taken. But, although  I appreciate  that the correspondence 
Ms W is referring  to was rather  confusing, Places  for People has confirmed to our 
investigator that the amount outstanding remains at £93,600. So Im not persuaded that 
Ms W was charged for switching her bank account.
Ms W is unhappy  that her monthly payments increased from June 2018. But Im satisfied 
that this was explained in section 4 of the loan agreement, which  says:
Interest of 1.75% per annum of the amount you borrow  will be payable  after the first five 
years of the loan. The rate of interest  you pay will then increase after ten years to 3.75% per 
annum of the amount  you borrow.
Ref: DRN88725843As Ive not found that Places for People  has made any errors, I dont require it to do anything 
further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8872584