K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained about  two whole of life policies she took out with Phoenix Wealth  
Services Limited (Phoenix). She has said she was told in a telephone call that the policies 
would increase in line with inflation.  Now she has discovered this isnt the case  and she feels 
the policies were mis-sold.
background
In 2008 Ms B took out a guaranteed over 50s plan. The plan was set up on a whole of life 
basis. The fixed cash sum payable  on death  after two years  of payment was just over £8,000 
with a premium of £28 per month.
In 2012 Ms B took another guaranteed  over 50s plan for a sum assured of just under £3,000 
and a premium of £10 per month.
Ms B has said in 2012 she was sent top up letters  but hasnt explained these further. She 
has also said that when  she was sent statement she saw there  was a shortfall  on the policy  
which is why she took the second one, to increase the lump  sum payable to what she 
wanted.
Ms B has also said she thought the plans were  indexed linked, or a least  she feels she was 
told this.
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators who felt it couldnt  be upheld. She 
felt that although Ms B has said she was told the policies were indexed  linked in a telephone  
call, all the paperwork provided to her explained this wasnt  the case.  And while the calls 
couldnt be provided she didnt feel this made a difference because no other  documented 
evidence supports the policies were indexed linked.
Ms B didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view the policies were mis-sold. 
She wasnt satisfied that the calls between her and Phoenix couldnt be provided  where  she 
says she was told the policies were indexed  linked. She also said that if she had known the 
polices werent indexed linked she wouldnt have taken them.
The adjudicator considered Ms Bs additional  comments but wasnt persuade to change  her 
outcome. So as no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been passed  to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld. 
Very little information has been provided by either party as to how these policies were taken 
out and whether advice was given.
For me to be able to uphold this complaint I need  to be certain that Ms B reasonably  thought 
the policies were indexed linked. I obviously I wasnt at the sales  meeting  or part of the call 
when the policies were taken out so I dont  know  what was discussed. So while I have taken 
Ref: DRN84266662account of what  Ms B has said she was told I also need to take account  of the evidence 
provided by Sun Life to decide if her complaint can be supported.
Having looked  at everything provided I am satisfied the paperwork made it clear that the 
premium and sum payable under the police were fixed. The terms and conditions even say 
the plan wont  keep up with inflation so I think the paperwork Ms B was provided with made it 
clear the plans were  not indexed linked.
I know Ms B has said that while  she did receive  the paperwork she didnt read it. But in my 
view this was her responsibility to do so despite what she said she was told in a call. She 
was entering a contract for which she was paying  money, after all, so checking she was 
getting exactly what she wanted really should  have been something she did at the time of 
taking out the policies.
I know Ms B is unhappy the calls cant be provided.  I appreciate this is frustrating but this 
isnt unusual given  how long ago these policies were  taken out. However,  while I cant verify  
what Ms B was told I remain of the opinion that she should have checked the paperwork 
when she received it to ensure she was buying the right thing for her. And that the 
paperwork clearly stated  the policies were not indexed linked.
While Ms B has referred  to top up letters Sun Life has confirmed that she took the second  
policy after receiving mailings  in the post and it was her own decision. And with regards to 
her thinking  there was a shortfall in the policy. There  wouldnt have  been  a shortfall 
because the sum assured remained the same throughout  the life of the policy.  It looks like 
Ms B interpreted her Annual Statement of Cover that was issued to her in July 2018  as 
informing her that the sum assured wasnt at the level she initially  thought hence her taking 
out the second policy
Its also worth noting that it isnt a usual feature of over 50s plans for them  to be indexed  
linked. Nor it is a usual  feature that the sum assured of the policy doesnt remain  the same  
throughout the life of the policy.  The only outstanding feature of these types of polices is that 
the policy holder  could  end up paying in more  in that would be paid out if the policy  holder 
stays alive for longer  than expected. But this again is something that is detailed on the policy 
information that was given  to Ms B.
Overall therefore while  I appreciate what Ms B has said about  what she was told in a call 
with Phoenix I think the paperwork she was provided with when she took out the policies 
was clear in setting out the terms and conditions  and nature of the policies, one of which  was 
that it didnt keep up with inflation.  And I think Ms B had a responsibility to read this when 
she entered into the contracts.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8426666