K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about the handling of a claim under his boiler insurance policy with 
Great Lakes Insurance SE.
background
On 6 August  2018, Mr W made a claim under the policy when the boiler in a house he rents  
out stopped working. Great Lakes sent an engineer to look at the boiler. Mr W says he 
simply topped up the pressure  and left. However,  the problem persisted and Great Lakes 
attended again. The engineer apparently  sealed off the boiler to test whether it could hold 
pressure. Mr W was told this test showed that the leak was elsewhere  and probably  under 
some concrete flooring. 
Mr W contacted  Great  Lakes again  on 14 September 2018 because  the problem with the 
boiler recurred. Great Lakes told Mr W there  was a leak under a concrete floor and advised  
Mr W to get a leak detection company to find the leak, which he would have to pay for 
privately, as the insurance didnt cover it. Mr W was reluctant to pay for this as he had 
insurance cover. On 20 September 2018  he called Great  Lakes asking it to confirm  in writing  
that he needed to instruct a leak detection team. Great Lakes  didnt respond  and he called 
again on 22 and 24 September 2018  to ask for written confirmation this was needed  and 
also that if no leak was found, it would refund him the cost. 
In response, Great Lakes  said it could  get an engineer to cap the boiler to test whether or 
not it holds pressure. However, this was the same test the engineer had done previously.   
Mr W says Great Lakes told him it would reimburse  the cost of the report,  if no leak was 
found. Mr Ws tenants had been without a working boiler for some weeks  by then and so he 
went ahead  and instructed a leak detection company.  He paid £500 for an inspection and 
report but no leak was found.  
After this, Mr W says that his tenant  found a small leak on a bedroom radiator and fixed it. 
This resolved the problem with the boiler.  
When Mr W asked  Great Lakes to reimburse the cost of the report, it refused. Mr W is very 
unhappy that the radiator  was not checked  by Great Lakes and that he incurred the cost of 
the leak detection report unnecessarily. He says there  was no reason to suspect a leak 
under the floor and it was a problem  with the boiler  system all along. He says Great  Lakes 
insisted on coming  back  out to check the boiler  after his tenant fixed the leaking radiator. 
After some cancelled appointments an engineer attended and simply asked the tenant  if the 
boiler was working  and then left. Great Lakes has since  tried to claim it resolved the leak,  
which is a lie.  
Great Lakes says it made it clear to Mr W it wanted  to get another  engineer to return before 
he went ahead and instructed a leak detection company. It also says that the leak detection  
company provided  an incorrect  diagnosis because  it said there  was no leak, when there  
clearly was (from the radiator) and Mr W should  therefore ask for a refund. When it re-
attended after the report from the leak detection company, its engineer  was allowed  access 
to the tenants  bedroom   which had previously been inaccessible  as the tenant was in bed - 
and found the leak on the radiator in there. There was no sign of the leak from the ceiling 
below and so without access to this room,  the engineer would never have been  able to rule 
this out as a possible cause of the loss of pressure. 
Ref: DRN84662062One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He recommended that it be upheld  as he 
thought Mr W had acted  reasonably  in instructing the leak detection company as he had been  
advised to do by Great Lakes. And if the engineer had been unable  to access all the rooms  to 
check the radiators,  it should have informed  Mr W of this at the time rather than assume the 
leak was elsewhere.  The investigator also accepted that the leak detection company were 
probably told that the boiler and central  heating system were not leaking, as this had already 
been checked by Great Lakes, and so it would have had no reason to check  the radiators for 
leaks. The investigator  recommended that Great Lakes reimburse this cost,  or seek  a refund 
on behalf of Mr W, and pay interest  on the amount  to be reimbursed to Mr W. 
Mr W has accepted the investigators  assessment, however, Great Lakes has not, so the 
matter has been  passed to me. 
Great Lakes says it had been unable to access the room where the leaking radiator was 
located. It had also asked to send the engineer back again on 24 September 2018,  before 
Mr W instructed  the leak detection company  but he went ahead anyway. While it had 
previously advised  Mr W to instruct  a leak detection  company, it is entitled to review  and 
change its stance. It had reviewed the matter and offered to send an engineer  back out.     
Mr W could and should have accepted  that offer. In addition, it says the investigator has 
speculated that the leak detection company was told the boiler system was free of leaks  but 
even if it had been told this, it should have checked  for itself.  It therefore maintains its stance 
that the company should refund the fee Mr W paid and its not reasonable for it to be 
required to reimburse  him for this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes says its engineers tried to check all the radiators in the property but were 
unable to check the one which in fact had been  leaking, as they were denied access to that 
room. I am not persuaded by this. There is no convincing evidence  that they checked  any 
radiators to eliminate  that as a cause of the boiler  losing pressure, before telling Mr W that 
new boiler parts were  needed and that there was a leak somewhere  under concrete floors of 
his home.  
The day after the first attendance by Great Lakess engineer in August 2018, Mr W called 
and complained that the engineer only topped up the pressure but did not check the 
radiators. Great Lakess  internal notes say the engineer agreed to go back  and do a 
thorough check on boiler and radiators. So it seems it was accepted that the engineer did 
not check the radiators at that attendance. The notes  also say the engineer advised that if 
the problem happened again a new pressure relief valve, new expansion tank and 
potentiometer would be needed. On 7 August  2018 another engineer capped off the boiler  to 
leave it for two days to see if the pressure dropped. The problem  appeared to resolve itself 
but then recurred.  Theres no record that the second  engineer  checked the radiators either, 
or tried to do so and wasnt able to. And one, or both, of the engineers advised Mr W they 
thought the cause of the loss of pressure was a leak in some pipework under the flooring.  
On 14 September  2018 Mr W reported the same  problem again and Great Lakes told him 
again that it was caused  by a leak under ground and advised him to instruct a leak detection 
team to find it. Mr W is noted to have  queried  this and dispute the diagnosis.
Ref: DRN84662063On 20 September  2018 Mr W asked  Great  Lakes  to confirm it would reimburse the cost of 
the leak detection team, if it turned out it was not the problem. I cannot see Great  Lakes 
responded to these  requests. Mr W then called in again on 24 September 2018  to ask for a 
report to say the leak detection team is needed,  he explains again that he doesnt want  to 
spend the money on the leak detection if there  is no leak.
Great Lakes then offered to get an engineer to cap the boiler to test whether or not it holds 
pressure. However, Great  Lakes engineer had already completed this test around 15 
September 2018 at which time Mr W was told he needed to get a leak detection team  to 
investigate. While Great Lakes offered  to send the engineer out again it also knew he 
intended to get the report  done and it was still maintaining its stance that the leak was not on 
the central heating  system. 
On 24 September  2018 Mr W is recorded by Great Lakes as saying if everything indicates  a 
leak elsewhere, he may as well get the report done. He asked  again  if it would reimburse  
him if there was no leak. Great Lakes  records that it told him to send in the report and it 
would look at it. He got the report one two days later.  
Therefore Mr W had been trying to get the problems with the boiler  resolved for nearly  three 
weeks. At this time Mr W was told Great Lakes could complete a test theyd already done  
when they initially  told him there was a leak under the concrete floor.  I can understand why 
Mr W felt completing  a test which had already been  done would  likely  be a waste of time.  
Also Great Lakes was not suggesting  it had reviewed the evidence  and felt that there  was 
now some  doubt about its previous assertions that the leak must be somewhere else in the 
property, rather it was simply  offering  this as an option. Given its repeated  advice that there 
was a leak under the floor, I do not consider it fair to say that Mr W refused to accept a 
reasonable offer by Great Lakes to investigate the leak further. I therefore think Mr W made 
a reasonable decision  to instruct  the leak detection team based on the information  he had 
been given by Great Lakes engineers.
I also consider that Great Lakes  did say it would reimburse the cost but even if it didnt I 
consider it is fair and reasonable for it to do so. In my opinion Great lakes  should have found  
the leak a lot earlier than it did and as it had not checked the central heating  system properly, 
there was no reason  to suggest  it was caused by a leak underground. Mr W only got the test 
and report done  because Great lakes told him  repeatedly  that it was necessary.
 
Great Lakes also says it would not pay for the report as it is not correct; they failed to detect 
the leak on the radiator. However, the crux of this complaint is that Mr W had to pay for that 
report and is out of pocket by £500. I have to decide  if he incurred this expense  as a result  of 
Great Lakes advice  and whether it is fair for it to reimburse him for it. For the reasons set 
out above, I am of the opinion he would not have  incurred  this expense if Great Lakes had 
dealt with the claim properly. Instead it failed to find the leak on the boiler system and 
repeatedly told Mr W he needed to get this report done. The expense  was unnecessary and 
Mr W should therefore be reimbursed together with interest, at our usual rate. 
I also consider that Great Lakes  should pay some additional compensation for the trouble 
caused to Mr W by the mis-handling of this claim.  Several attendances were  required and 
considerable inconvenience  caused  to Mr W in getting this report, chasing Great Lakes and 
so on, when the leak should have been  found and rectified within  a much  shorter space of 
time. I consider that the additional sum of £150  is appropriate. 
Ref: DRN84662064my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Great Lakes Insurance SE and require it to do the following: 
Reimburse the cost of the leak detection report obtained by Mr W, together with interest 
at 8% simple per annum from the date he paid or the report  to the date of 
reimbursement; and 
Pay Mr W £150 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by its handling  
of this claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.  
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8466206