K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank Plc recorded a Credit Industry  Fraud  Avoidance System 
(CIFAS) marker against his name.  CIFAS are the UKs fraud  prevention agency. 
background
Mr T had an Under Nineteens Account, with a debit  card. In November  2018  there  were  a 
number of payments  into Mr Ts account  which were quickly  withdrawn. Many of the 
withdrawals were at cash points (ATMs) and some  were through  faster payments via online 
banking. 
The payments into the account were later found to be fraudulent. When  they discovered this, 
Lloyds blocked  Mr Ts account and online  banking.  They later closed the account and 
registered his name  with CIFAS. 
Mr T says he didnt  know anything about  the payments into his account and that he didnt 
make the withdrawals. He contacted Lloyds on 13 November 2018 to enquire  why his 
account was blocked and during the same call said that hed lost his debit card about a 
week ago. 
In May 2019  Mr T contacted Lloyds and complained  about the CIFAS marker  theyd 
reported. He was unhappy as it was impacting on his ability  to open  a student bank account. 
He would like the CIFAS  marker to be removed. Lloyds responded to the complaint but 
maintained theyd acted correctly. 
Mr T referred the matter  to our service.  One of our investigators didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld.  She concluded  there  was sufficient evidence to support Lloyds decision 
to add the CIFAS  marker.  Mr T doesnt accept this and has asked for an ombudsman  to 
review his complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So Im not upholding it. Let me explain 
why. 
Im satisfied that the payments  into Mr Ts account  were as a result of fraud. Their own 
banks will have investigated  those  payments  before reaching that conclusion  and reporting 
this to Lloyds. Mr T may not have necessarily  been involved in this. But he says he had no 
knowledge of the withdrawals either. 
The ATM withdrawals were made  using  Mr Ts genuine card and PIN. In Mr Ts first call to 
Lloyds he said he had lost his debit card around  a week  earlier and that he thought it had 
fallen out of his wallet. But later in the investigation  when  Mr T was challenged about  how 
another person could have known  his PIN number,  he said hed kept the slip with his PIN in 
his wallet. 
I dont think Mr T would have said he thought  the debit card had fallen out of his wallet,  if 
hed lost his whole wallet and its contents. And the change of story  occurred  around  the 
Ref: DRN85424392same time that the issue of there not being  a plausible explanation  as to how the PIN could 
have been compromised arose. 
Further to this Mr T had previously registered  for and used online banking through Lloyds 
mobile banking  app. On 6 November 2018 a second  device  was registered to his online 
banking. Its this second device that made  the faster payments out of the account following 
the receipt of fraudulent funds. Mr T says he didnt authorise or register a second device. But 
the technical evidence shows that this was authorised following a call to his phone. There 
isnt evidence to suggest that Mr Ts phone had been compromised. I think  its more likely 
than not that Mr T authorised this second device to have access to his online banking.  I find 
the technical evidence provided  by Lloyds more persuasive than Mr Ts testimony. 
I can also see that during  the time period when all this was happening, Mr T was logging  in 
via his own phone. And I agree with our investigator  that I would have expected him to have 
seen the transactions and if they were unfamiliar to him I would have expected him to have 
reported this to Lloyds. 
Looking at the complaint as a whole,  Im not persuaded that Mr Ts account of events  is 
entirely accurate.  I think he knows more  about what happened than he has told Lloyds or our 
service. In the circumstances Im satisfied there was enough evidence for Lloyds to 
justifiably place a CIFAS  marker against Mr Ts name.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8542439