K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that a critical illness policy he held with Wesleyan Assurance  Society  lapsed
and he hasnt been able to reinstate it.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in Mr Hs complaint. I set out the background as follows:
Mr H holds a number  of policies with Wesleyan. In 2016 he switched bank accounts  but the 
direct debits for 11 of his policies didnt get transferred to his new bank  account.  The majority 
of his policies  were subsequently reinstated once the issue was identified  but the critical 
illness policy   the Lifetime Account Plus (LAP)  wasnt.
Mr H contacted Wesleyan  in 2018 about the policy. He was initially told that the policy  could 
be reconstructed but Wesleyan later apologised and said they couldnt reconstruct the 
policy. Mr H complained to Wesleyan about  their decision  to not reinstate the policy  and 
about the service  hed received.
Wesleyan investigated  his complaint but didnt think theyd done anything  wrong. They  said,  
in summary:
Theyd sent Mr H letters on 5 April and 9 May 2016 notifying  him that there  was an 
outstanding premium due to the cancelled direct  debit instruction. The letters  
explained that if payments remained outstanding  then the policy would be updated in 
line with its terms and conditions. 
They referred Mr H to the terms and conditions of the policy which  said:
oAn account to which one years regular Contributions  have been  paid will be 
converted to a Paid-Up Account if regular Contributions  are not resumed 
within a period of three months  of the first unpaid Contribution
oAny covers which exist on a Paid-Up Account will continue  until the Account 
becomes a Closed  Account or until Cover ends in accordance with the 
conditions described in this booklet
oA Paid-Up Account  where the Bid Value of Units  is zero will be converted to a 
Closed Account
They sent Mr H a letter on 31 May 2016  which confirmed that the policy had been 
converted to a paid-up status with effect from 12 April 2016. The letter  also confirmed 
that if the policy included critical illness and or life cover,  units would be deducted 
from the fund to maintain the covers  and these charges would significantly reduce 
the fund value over time and this may potentially result in the fund value reducing to 
zero at which time the policy would be cancelled without value.
The letter also explained  that he could either  surrender  the policy and receive  the 
value of the fund,  leave  the fund invested,  or revive the policy  at any time without 
paying the missed  premiums, providing that the number of units hadnt reduced  to 
zero.
In March 2017, 12 months since the first unpaid  premium, the fund value reduced to 
zero and in line with the terms and conditions the policy  was lapsed and converted  to 
a Closed Account.  Written confirmation of this was sent to Mr H on 14 March 2017.
They understood that during July and August 2018 Mr H had been  incorrectly 
advised that the policy would be reconstructed.  However, this was due to a 
misunderstanding of the status of the policy  based on Mr Hs indication  that he had 
sent in a direct debit  instruction (DDI). They initially thought that they had failed to set 
up the DDI which would  have  been their error.
Ref: DRN83340782Their Actuarial department subsequently reviewed the policy  and considered the 
number of letters issued,  the significant  length of time that the premiums and been 
unpaid and the terms and conditions. They also realised that they hadnt received a 
DDI from Mr H to restart  payment  of premiums   so therefore they could not reinstate  
the policy.
They acknowledged  that Mr H had been  a loyal customer for many years  and said 
that if hed made contact with then within three months following March  2017 when 
the account was closed, they could have exercised some discretion and discussed 
how to re-instate the plan.
They thought  they had made a reasonable number of attempts to keep Mr H updated 
about the status of his policy and couldnt find any evidence  to suggest that they had 
administered the policy incorrectly.  Therefore,  they were unable  to arrange for the 
policy to be reinstated.
They appreciated the disappointment Mr H may have felt when it was confirmed that 
the policy would not be reinstated after being  told that it would be. They  felt they 
failed to adequately manage  his expectations and offered him £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience  theyd caused.  
Mr H didnt agree with their decision and brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator thought  that Wesleyan had taken 
reasonable steps to make  Mr H aware of the status  of the policy  and the £200 compensation 
theyd offered for the distress and inconvenience  was fair.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and make a 
decision. I felt the complaint should  be upheld and wrote to Wesleyan explaining why but 
they didnt agree.
They said,  in summary:
They thought  theyd acted fairly and reiterated  that theyd issued a number of 
notification letters to Mr H informing him about  the position of the policy.  Each letter  
referred to the specific policy  number which  should have made it clear which policy 
was being referred to.
A letter was sent to Mr H in September 2016 confirming the Income  Protection  
policies had been revived. The letter specified each policy reference but didnt  
include the LAP - this indicated that it hadnt been revived.  This provided another 
opportunity for Mr H to challenge  why the LAP hadnt been revived.
They said it felt as though they were being held responsible for Mr H not reading his 
letters and acting  upon them.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im still minded to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint.
From what  Ive seen he had several  policies with Wesleyan  a mixture of Permanent  Heath 
Insurance, Professional  Expenses  and this policy - the Lifetime  Account Plus (which had 
critical illness cover). The Lifetime Account Plus (LAP) had been in place since 1998 and 
hed paid over 209 premiums.
Ref: DRN83340783He switched bank  accounts in 2016 and there were issues with the direct debits for a 
number of his policies. He was sent a number of letters in April and May 2016 regarding 
outstanding payments for his policies.  These  included letters  explaining that his direct  debit  
for the LAP had been cancelled and payments were outstanding. He was also sent a letter 
on 31 May 2016 advising that payments  for the LAP were still outstanding and as a result 
the policy had been converted to a paid up status.  
The next letter Mr H received regarding the LAP was in March  2017 which  said that the 
policy had been  cancelled because the fund value had been used up. He got in touch with 
Wesleyan in 2018 and was initially told that the policy would be reconstructed. He was then 
informed that the policy  couldnt be reconstructed.  This was because it came  to light that 
letters had been sent about  the non-payment of the premium and cancellation  of the policy. 
And because the correct  process had been followed, the policy couldnt be reinstated.
Taking everything into account,  Im not persuaded that Mr H should have been aware of the 
status of the policy  prior to cancellation  in March 2017. The evidence  Ive seen shows  that 
Wesleyan proactively called Mr H about the missed premiums on some of his other  policies 
but not the LAP. I also note that Mr H called Wesleyan in July 2016 explaining that his 
policies had lapsed as a consequence of non-payment of premiums.
Following this, arrangements were  then made  to revive all his policies over the next few 
months  except for the LAP. Having reviewed the records of the conversations  Mr H had 
with Wesleyan in 2016, I cant see anything to show that he didnt want to reinstate the LAP. 
The notes simply refer to policies and I think on balance Mr H wanted to reinstate all of his 
policies and thought that was what he had arranged.
I appreciate the point  Wesleyan have raised  regarding the letter  they sent to Mr H in 
September 2016 which specified the references  of the policies that had been revived. But, I 
think its reasonable to suggest that Mr H thought hed reinstated  all his policies. I say this 
because some of the policies  were revived in July 2016 and some in September 2016  so it 
wouldnt have been immediately apparent on receipt of the September  letter that the LAP 
hadnt been included. 
I also think its important to note that the conversation Mr H had with Wesleyan in July 2016 
was after the third letter hed received regarding the missed payments on the LAP and 
crucially, before it had been cancelled. I think its more likely than not that after this 
conversation, Mr H thought hed made  arrangements to resolve all the issues  hed had with 
his policies.
From what  Ive seen, the income protection policies and the LAP were dealt with by different 
areas within Wesleyan.  But this wasnt made  clear  to Mr H and at no point during the 
process of reviving  the income protection policies was he told that he needed to get in touch 
separately about the LAP. I note the monthly  premium  for the LAP was significant, so Ive 
thought about whether he couldve noticed sooner that this policy  hadnt  been reinstated. But 
its clear to me that his business  account  had numerous similar  direct  debits being taken 
monthly, so I can see how he wouldnt have noticed  it.
Ref: DRN83340784So the only remaining  issue  is around  the letter sent to Mr H in March 2017.  Wesleyan have  
said that if hed made  contact within three  months  of receiving this letter then they could 
have discussed  how to reinstate the plan.  Mr H has said he received the letter  and contacted 
them to discuss it but wasnt  given the option  to reinstate the policy. Wesleyan have been 
unable to provide  me with a copy of the call recording, but I have  seen a letter  which 
confirms that Mr H spoke to Wesleyan on 26 June 2017. But theres  no mention in the letter 
of any discussion around the LAP.
I also note that despite  being  told in 2018 that the policy couldnt be reconstructed,  Mr H was 
sent a letter  earlier this year saying that he could make up the missed  premiums and the 
policy would be brought back up to date.  He was then told this letter had been sent in error.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Mr H wanted to cancel the policy.  The mistake 
that led to the direct  debits being cancelled was due to a bank account switching issue.  I 
think its more likely  than not that he intended  to keep the LAP going  and could  afford the 
ongoing premiums.
I also think he gave a clear indication that he wished  to reinstate his policies which included 
the LAP. Had he been issued the correct forms for all his policies by Wesleyan after the 
conversation in July 2016, Im satisfied he wouldve taken the necessary  steps  to bring  the 
LAP up to date and maintain it. So I think it would be fair if Wesleyan allowed Mr H to make 
up the premiums and reconstruct the policy.
Im also aware that there may be a potential claim by Mr H. Because  I think the policy  should 
be reinstated  I also think  that Wesleyan should consider any potential retrospective  claim  
by Mr H from the time when the policy was cancelled. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr H responded and confirmed he accepted my findings. Wesleyan responded and said they 
were still of the opinion  that theyd issued enough notification  to Mr H for him to contact them 
and specifically query the LAP. They reiterated that when Mr H previously spoke to their 
Income Protection team, they wouldnt  have  instigated  a conversation about other product  
types.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not persuaded that I 
should depart from my provisional findings.  
I appreciate the points  Wesleyan have made but I havent seen any reason to change my 
provisional decision. As Ive said  I dont think it was made  clear  to Mr H that the income 
protection policies  and the LAP were dealt with by different areas  and he wasnt told that he 
needed to get in touch  separately about  the LAP.
Ref: DRN83340785my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Wesleyan Assurance Society should allow Mr H to make up the premiums  hes 
missed and reinstate  his policy. They  should also consider any retrospective claims from Mr 
H from the time when  the policy was cancelled.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8334078