K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mrs S nor FICL has provided any further comments. As I havent received any new 
information which requires comment,  I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN89444402Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer 
to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store account in 1999.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100 Mrs S owed on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs S couldnt work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well 
as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
I currently dont intend to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing  
for her and Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached that outcome.
FICL had to make it clear  to Mrs S that the policy was optional  and get her consent before 
PPI could  be applied  to the account.  Mrs S says she didnt know  she had taken out the PPI 
and was not told the policy was optional.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale and I can see 
that there is a section to apply for Account Cover   the name used  by FICL for PPI. In this 
section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. Mrs S has signed  the 
section to confirm she wanted the cover. If Mrs S didnt  want to take out the PPI she could 
have left this section  blank. And Mrs S has signed  the overall application form which  
suggests it reflected  what she wanted.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL made it clear the policy  was optional and Mrs S 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied, I dont  think FICL recommended  the policy  to Mrs S. 
So it didnt have  to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make sure it 
gave Mrs S clear  enough information about the policy  to enable  her to decide for herself  if 
she should take the policy.
Ref: DRN89444403Its possible  the information FICL  gave  Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given her better or clearer information, I dont think  it would 
have made  a difference. I still think she would have taken out the policy. I say this because 
Mrs S was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations to the cover.
There has been some confusion regarding Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the sale. 
We have been  given several different accounts of the job role Mrs S had when she took out 
the policy. But Mrs S has recently confirmed her job role and has also told us she was 
entitled to six months full pay, followed by three months half pay at that employer. This is 
different to the information we had been given  initially and so it seems  Mrs Ss recollections 
from so long ago may have been  affected   this sale took place in 1999 so this isnt 
surprising. But, based on what  she has told us, I think  the policy could  have provided  a 
useful benefit  to her. It would have paid out 15% of her outstanding  balance until she was 
able to return to work or until the balance had been cleared  whichever came  first. And it 
would have paid out in addition to her sick pay, and potentially for longer.
Ive noted Mrs S has told us she had savings she could have used. Unfortunately Mrs S 
hasnt been able to give any details of the amount of savings she had or provide any 
evidence. As I dont have much information  about the savings  Mrs S may have had at the 
time, I cant  place as much weight on this as perhaps she would  have liked me to. Ive 
thought carefully  about this but even if she did have some savings, by having this policy  
Mrs S would have been able to protect these savings for another  purpose or use them  to 
help pay for other living expenses. So this doesnt change my decision.
Mrs S said her husband could have helped her to make her repayments for a short period of 
time. While I appreciate  her husband  would have  wanted to help, support from others  cant 
always be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, meaning they cant provide 
such financial assistance. So this doesnt make a difference to my outcome.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think Mrs S has lost out as a result  of 
anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I currently dont  intend to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN8944440