K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that PSA Finance UK Limited,  trading as Peugeot Financial  Services, hasnt 
waived any of the payments that were  due under a hire purchase  agreement when he was 
unemployed.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with Peugeot  Financial 
Services that he signed in January 2015. He contacted Peugeot  Financial Services  in 
January 2018  because  hed been unemployed since February 2017 and asked it to waive  
his payments under the payment waiver  clause in the agreement.  
Mr M then complained to it but it said that the agreement had ended, Mr M had returned  the 
car and only the last monthly payment was outstanding but couldnt be waived.  He wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that it was 
unfortunate that Mr M wasnt aware  of the payment waiver clause at an earlier  stage but he 
only informed Peugeot Financial Services of his financial situation after his agreement  ended 
so she couldnt  fairly  say that it should  waive his last payment.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
adjudicator hasnt considered the poor customer service that he received, his wasted time 
and the misinformation And he says that if he was entitled to a payment waiver based on his 
circumstances then how can he still be liable to make the final payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A used  car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with Peugeot  Financial 
Services in January 2015. He agreed to make a payment of £296.29, 35 monthly  payments 
of £251.29 and a final (optional) payment of £6,092. I understand that he made the 
payments as they became due but that in February  2017 he became  unemployed. Ive seen 
no evidence to show that he told Peugeot Financial Services of his unemployment and he 
continued to make his monthly payments. 
Peugeot Financial Services says that it was contacted by Mr M in early  January 2018 and he 
said that he wanted to return the car when  his agreement  ended  later that month. So it 
cancelled the optional final payment leaving one monthly payment as due about two weeks 
later. Ive seen no evidence to show that he told it about his unemployment at that time - or 
that he requested  a payment waiver.
After the final monthly payment had become due Mr M contacted  Peugeot Financial 
Services again and said that hed been unemployed since February  2017  and wanted  to 
claim a waiver of his payments. But it said the final instalment had already fallen due so his 
claim was rejected.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ms agreement say:
Ref: DRN89791092The provision of [the payment waiver  clause] cannot be applied  retrospectively for 
periods of unemployment.
When Mr M applied for a waiver of his payments the only unpaid  payment was the last 
monthly instalment  which had already  become due. So I consider that Peugeot  Financial 
Services applied the provision of the payment waiver clause correctly as it couldnt be 
applied retrospectively.  Im not persuaded that its acted incorrectly and I find that it wouldnt  
be fair or reasonable  for me to require it to waive Mr Ms last payment.
The last payment of £251.29 remains outstanding  and Peugeot  Financial Services  has 
recorded it as a late payment on Mr Ms credit file. I consider that to be a true and accurate 
record of his payments   so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to remove that information. It has also charged Mr M £130  for damage to the car 
when it was returned. So the outstanding balance on his account  is £381.29  and I consider 
that its fair and reasonable for it to seek payment of that amount from Mr M (to the extent 
that its legally entitled to do so). 
So I suggest that Mr M contacts Peugeot Financial Services to try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement  for that amount. If hes experiencing  financial difficulties its required 
to respond to those  difficulties positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8979109