K820x#14complaint
Mr G says HSBC  Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr G bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G says the policy was sold during a meeting. HSBC also hasnt  been  able to tell us how it 
thinks the policy was sold to Mr G. Without  any conflicting information, Ive looked at the sale 
as if it happened  during  a meeting.
Mr G has said he was led to believe it was compulsory and he wouldnt get the credit card 
unless he took the policy. HSBC has said he wouldve  been  made  aware it was optional  and 
it wouldnt have been added unless hed agreed  to it.
Its understandable, given  how long its been  since the sale,  that there arent  many  details 
available about  what happened.  But this means  I dont know what was said about the PPI, if 
anything. And I dont  have any actual documents from the sale either.
So Ive looked  at everything we know about how HSBC normally sold PPI around that time. 
And based on what we know about such sales, consumers were usually asked to choose 
whether or not they wanted PPI. So I think its more likely that Mr G was given a choice and 
he chose to buy the policy, even if he doesnt remember  than now, many years  later.
Mr G has said that HSBC  recommend the PPI to him. HSBC  has said it doesnt know  
whether it did. But I dont think it really matters  whether or not HSBC  recommended  the 
policy, because I think the policy was suitable  for Mr G.
I say this because  it doesnt  look like Mr G was affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations on the policy. Mr G says he wouldnt have been able to make  a claim because  he 
was self-employed.  Ive carefully reviewed  the terms of the policy  but I dont think  being self-
employed would have made it any more difficult for him to make a claim.
Mr G has also told us he didnt have any other means to make his repayments  such  as 
savings or any sickness or unemployment cover. The policy wouldve paid out 10% of his 
balance for up to 12 months  if Mr G had made  a successful claim. So from what  I know  
about his circumstances, I think it couldve been  helpful for him. It also looks  to have been 
affordable for him. 
Ref: DRN80088182I dont know what information Mr G got, so its possible the information HSBC gave him 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But Mr G doesnt appear to have been  
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such  as any pre-existing medical  
conditions. So I dont  think  better information  wouldve  stopped him buying it.
Its been difficult to decide  on this complaint, as I know so little about how Mr G came  to 
have the PPI. Ive taken  into account all of Mr Gs comments, but these  points dont change  
my conclusion. And based on the information  Ive got, I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably say the PPI was mis-sold to him.
So HSBC  doesnt  have to pay back all the cost of the policy. But HSBC has paid back some  
of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But HSBC  Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8008818