K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Amtrust Europe  Limited  unfairly declined  a claim on the cosmetic 
repair insurance policy covering his car.
Reference to Amtrust  includes its agents.
background
When Mr T bought a new car he also bought  the cosmetic repair policy.  A bird dropping left 
a mark on his cars bonnet so he claimed  on his policy. Amtrust said that the policy didn't 
cover the claim. Mr T paid for the mark to be buffed  out at a cost of £27 and brought  his 
complaint about  Amtrusts handling  of his claim to us. He said that Amtrust  should refund 
him the full policy premium.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 April 2020. For ease I've reproduced my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it.  
Mr Ts policy covers  Minor  Cosmetic  Damage which it defines as: a Chip, Minor  Dent, 
Light Scratch  and/or  Scuffed Bumper  caused  by a single Incident,  where  the total damaged  
area is no larger than 30cm in diameter  or 3mm in depth and, in the case of a Chip(s) is no 
larger than 1.5cm in diameter or 3mm in depth.
I don't think the mark caused by the bird dropping can be described as a chip,  dent scratch 
or bumper  scuff and those  are the only types  of damage covered by the policy.  It follows that 
under the terms  of the policy Mr Ts claim simply isnt covered. So I think it was reasonable 
for Amtrust  to decline Mr Ts claim.   
It might help if I explain that when designing  policies insurers will decide which risks they 
wish to cover and the likelihood that it will have to pay out on those risks. They won't  cover  
every eventuality that could result  in the need for a cosmetic repair. And the policy  
documents will set out which risks they are willing  to cover.  Its essentially a matter of 
commercial judgment,  balancing risk against  the need to compete with other policies on 
offer.
In this case, damage caused by bird droppings  isn't a risk the policy  covers. And that's  a 
decision Amtrust  is entitled to reach when designing the policy. As I've said above, 
insurance policies  won't  cover every eventuality that could  lead to a claim. And I can 
understand that Amtrust  might think that the risk of cars being subject to marks arising from 
bird droppings is far more likely than the other causes of damage that the policy  does cover. 
And if it covered the bird droppings risk then it could be exposed to a far greater number of 
claims. So its chosen not to cover that risk. Thats a decision its allowed to come  to.
I note that the policy doesn't  specifically  exclude  cover for marks caused by bird droppings. 
But I don't  think  it needs  to in order for Amtrust to decline  the claim fairly. I think the policy  is 
clear in what damage it does cover. So I don't think it would need to list everything that it 
doesn't cover. And as Mr Ts claim isn't for a risk covered  by the policy  I think it was fair for 
Amtrust to refuse the claim.
Ref: DRN82543202For completeness I understand that Amtrust initially told Mr T that his claim wasn't covered 
because the repair couldn't be completed using minor cosmetic repair techniques, as the 
policy requires. That clearly wasn't helpful  as Mr T had his car repaired by a body shop using 
such a technique.  So I don't think Amtrust should have referred to that when declining his 
claim. But I've noted that it did clarify that the policy didn't cover the circumstances leading to 
Mr Ts claim.  And as I think thats reasonable, Im not going  to instruct it to take any further 
action.
developments
Amtrust accepted my provisional decision. Mr T made a number of comments. Amongst 
others he said the policy gives example of what is minor cosmetic damage but that when the 
damage is less than that it's not covered. He said the policy  says that any claim for 
something outside of is limits - in terms of size of the damage  isn't considered  minor  
cosmetic damage.  And therefore,  applying that logic, any claim for damage below those 
limits should  be considered. He said that his claim for damage  was within  those limits and 
used a minor  cosmetic  repair technique to fix. He also said that Amtrust didn't examine his 
car and rejected his claim over the phone. He added that the policy says that where a minor 
cosmetic repair  technique  can't be used the policy will cover a contribution  to repair  costs  of 
up to £150. But Amtrust  also refused that. 
Further Mr T said that he had to spend  his own time and money pursuing the matter. He 
doesn't think that hes received value  for a policy  he paid £355 for. He thinks  Amtrust should 
compensate him for his time and refund the policy  premium. He said the policy  says that its 
designed to keep his car in showroom condition. He added that if I maintain my decision he 
will take the matter  up with the car dealers and car manufacturer whose name the policy is 
branded in. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr Ts said the policy gives  examples of what counts as minor cosmetic damage.  But hes 
mistaken; the policy gives a definition of what it means by minor cosmetic  damage.  So 
anything that doesn't  fall within that definition simply isn't covered by the policy. Thats  
regardless of whether or not the damage  is otherwise  within the policy  limits or would cost 
less to repair than damage caused  by something that is covered by the policy. If the thing 
claimed for isn't covered by the policy, then its reasonable for Amtrust to decline the claim. 
And that's whats  happened here.
So, when Mr T rang Amtrust and told it he wanted to claim for damage  caused by bird 
droppings, I think it was reasonable for Amtrust  to tell him over the phone thats not 
something the policy covered and as such it would  refuse his claim.  There was no reason for 
Amtrust to incur  the expense of sending someone to look at Mr Ts car when it knew  the 
claim wouldn't be covered by the policy anyway. It follows that I don't think it did anything 
wrong in telling Mr T that the claim wasn't  covered without  inspecting his car.
Similarly, while - in certain circumstances - the policy  will pay a contribution of up to £150 
towards the costs  of repair,  the damage  being repaired must fall within  the policy  definition  of 
Ref: DRN82543203minor cosmetic damage, otherwise its not covered. And that definition  doesn't include bird 
droppings. So it was reasonable for Amtrust  to refuse Mr Ts claim.  And given that I think it 
was fair for Amtrust to turn down  the claim I see no reason why it should have to 
compensate Mr T for the time hes spent pursuing it. Nor do I see any reason  why it should 
have to pay Mr T a refund  simply because he tried to claim for something  that wasn't 
covered by the policy.
I understand that the policys introduction says that its aim is to help policyholders keep their 
cars in showroom condition. But every insurance policy comes with terms and conditions.  
And the policy goes  on to clearly describe the eligibility criteria for a successful claim. So I 
don't think  Amtrust should have to pay Mr Ts claim,  nor refund his premium,  simply because  
it followed those terms and conditions  when looking at Mr Ts claim. 
Its also worth noting that Amtrust didn't sell Mr T the policy, the car dealership  did. And, as 
hes said he might  do, if Mr T has concerns about the manner in which  the policy was sold to 
him, he may wish to take that up with the dealership. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8254320