K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the service  he received from Countrywide Principal Services  Limited 
(Countrywide) when  he asked it to arrange a consumer buy-to-let (CBTL) mortgage. 
background
Mr M purchased his property in 2007 and he lived there until August 2018, when he moved 
abroad to live and work. 
In May 2018, Mr M met with an adviser at Countrywide with the intention of re-mortgaging 
with a CBTL mortgage so that he could rent his property out. He says he made  it clear  to the 
adviser that he was moving abroad, having signed an employment contract before the 
meeting took place.   
The adviser arranged  for a mortgage  application  to be submitted to a lender, which Ill call 
(L), and a few months later Mr M moved  abroad  as planned. 
Mr M says he was told the rate he wanted  had been  reserved and in mid-August 2018 he 
was reassured  by the adviser that his application  will go through  eventually. Mr M says he 
continued to ask the adviser for updates,  but his emails went  un-answered- so he 
complained to Countrywide. 
Countrywide upheld  Mr Ms complaint. It apologised for the poor service Mr M had received 
and explained  he didnt meet Ls criteria after relocating abroad,  so his application couldnt 
proceed. It acknowledged  Mr M hadnt  been  told this and offered  to refund the fees hed 
paid. It also offered to pay him £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Mr M didnt  accept Countrywides explanation and referred his complaint to our service.
He told us he made it explicitly clear to the adviser he was moving abroad.  He also said he 
was prevented from looking for a new mortgage  elsewhere whilst he was waiting for his 
application to go through.  He says this meant  he continued paying a higher rate of interest 
on his existing mortgage (4.99%) than he could have been paying had he been able to 
re-mortgage elsewhere. 
Countrywide told us that Mr M had told the adviser it wasnt official he would be relocating 
abroad, and he didnt  confirm the move  was happening until after the application  had been  
submitted.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. She accepted the adviser knew it was, at 
least, a possibility that Mr M would be moving  abroad. She also felt he should have been 
told, sooner than he was, that his application  couldnt proceed.
However, she didnt  think  it was reasonable that Mr M had waited so long for an answer from 
the adviser. She also didnt think Mr M had shown he could have secured a mortgage with a 
lower rate of interest elsewhere. She felt Countrywides offer to refund the fees and to pay 
him an additional £200 for the poor service  he received was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator. He explained he didnt want  to lose the fees hed 
already paid, and he didnt want to start the process again. He also explained it wasnt  easy 
for him to meet with a broker and arrange  valuations etc. whilst  he was living  abroad. 
Ref: DRN85189852Mr M provided information to show hed secured  a private loan with relatives with an interest  
rate of 3.5%  for a term of five years. He also provided a copy  of a letter from his employer 
referencing his original  employment contract  start date. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What was discussed with the adviser?
Countrywide says Mr M didnt satisfy Ls criteria  after relocating  abroad and thats  why his 
application couldnt proceed. Its told us Mr M needed to be living in England. Mr M doesnt  
accept Countrywides  explanation. Hes adamant he told the adviser  he was moving abroad 
before the application was submitted, so he doesnt think his circumstances changed. 
Im satisfied Mr M had decided to move  abroad  before  he met with the adviser. This is 
evidenced in the letter Mr M has provided  from his employer confirming his contract was 
agreed in November 2017. 
However, Countrywide says Mr M didnt  confirm the move was official until after the 
application had been submitted. This indicates  the adviser was, at least,  aware relocation 
abroad was a possibility. 
Countrywide hasnt  been able to provide us with any meeting notes or correspondence 
between it and L. But it has provided us with a copy its Fact Find document,  which appears 
to have been completed on the day of the meeting. There isnt any mention of Mr Ms 
intended relocation abroad in this document. Id expect this to have be have been recorded 
here had it been  discussed.
However, I dont think that necessarily  shows it wasnt discussed. I say this because the 
possibility of Mr M relocating abroad also wasnt mentioned, which  based  on what 
Countrywide has told us, Im satisfied the adviser did, at least,  know.     
Ive been unable to conclude from the limited information available  to me that Mr M did make 
the advisor aware that he was, definitely, relocating  abroad.  
However, I am satisfied  the adviser was made  aware in early  August 2018 that Mr M was 
living abroad. This is evidenced in Mr Ms email  to the adviser, in which he states: 
Just a reminder, I am abroad  now, so please email  me any documents.  
I think this was sufficient  to alert the adviser  Mr M wasnt residing in England and 
consequently his application  was unlikely to proceed.  However, twelve  days  later, he sent an 
email to Mr M assuring  him the application would go through.  
Its clear to me that Mr M should  have  been  have been told by early  August 2018, at the 
latest, that his application  was unlikely to be successful.
The delay 
Ref: DRN85189853Mr M wasnt told his application couldnt proceed until December 2018. This was around  
seven months after his application  was submitted.  And around  four months after Ive 
concluded he should have been  told this, at the latest.   
Mr M has said that, had he not been  strung  along  for so long by the adviser, he could have 
secured a loan with a lower rate of interest sooner than he did. 
I accept the reasons Mr M has given for wanting to continue with his original application, 
especially after he was told as late as mid-August  2018 that it would go through  eventually.   
However, I do think he could have escalated his concerns to Countrywide sooner  than late 
October 2018. This may have allowed  him to receive clarification  on the matter earlier than 
he did. 
In any event, for me to be satisfied Countrywides delay caused Mr M financial loss, hed 
need to show  he could and would have  secured  a comparable mortgage with a lower 
interest rate elsewhere.   
Mr M has provided evidence to show he secured a private loan from relatives at a lower  
interest rate than he was paying  on his existing mortgage. However, this loan wasnt  
arranged until September 2019,  which was around nine months  after he was told his 
application couldnt proceed  (December 2018).
 
Whilst Mr M has shown  this was an option  available to him in September 2019, it isnt 
enough to show  it was available to him between May 2018 and December 2018, or sooner 
than it was. And further, that he would have  decided to take out this loan sooner than he did.
The loan was also for a significantly smaller amount than Mr M had originally applied  for. I 
understand this was due to him making overpayments  on his existing mortgage during the 
intervening period. Therefore, this isnt an equivalent comparison. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr M would  have been able to get a comparable mortgage 
elsewhere, had he been able to go to another broker. Most lenders require borrowers to be 
residents in the United Kingdom,  so I think this would have been  difficult for him. 
As a result, Ive been unable to conclude that Mr M could have secured an equivalent loan or 
mortgage at a lower  rate of interest than his existing mortgage, but for the delay he 
experienced finding out his original  application couldnt proceed.  
Ref: DRN85189854My conclusion 
Its clear that Countrywide has provided Mr M with a poor level of customer service  overall.  
Countrywide accepts  this. It has already offered to refund the fees that Mr M paid to arrange  
the mortgage (£267). It has also offered to pay him an additional  £200  in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience the matter  has caused.  
Im satisfied this is a fair offer in the circumstances,  so Im not going to ask Countrywide to 
do anything further.
If Mr M would like to accept Countrywides offer, he should contact it directly so that payment 
can be arranged.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021.
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8518985