K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that Omni  Capital Retail Finance Limited (which Ill call Omni Capital) is 
asking him to repay a loan which he says was taken out in his name  without his permission.  
Background
Mr B has explained that A, who is known to him, attended a private clinic with a view to 
arranging cosmetic surgery.  Notes from the clinic indicate that A said that Mr B would be 
paying for the surgery. Mr B says that he agreed  to pay the deposit of £500, but not the 
balance of the cost of surgery (£4,995); and neither did he agree to take out a loan to cover 
the balance. 
Omni Capital  said that the clinic had all Mr Bs contact details  name, address, email and 
mobile phone number  and that this indicated he was linked to the payment arrangements  
and had agreed to take out the loan. It wouldnt have sought  that information  if all it was 
doing was taking a deposit. It said too that, if Mr B had been misled by A, it was a civil matter 
 meaning that it was for him to take matters up with her, rather than with it as lender. 
Mr B maintained that he had not agreed  to take out the loan and referred the matter  to this 
service. One of our investigators considered what hed said but didnt recommend that his 
complaint be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that he didnt know  about the loan application 
and agreement. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review  the 
case. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Omni Capital  has relied quite heavily on the fact that the clinic had Mr Bs personal details 
and that he was clearly  involved in paying  for As surgery.  It says that the amount of 
information it had collected would only be needed if Mr B had applied for a loan  not if he 
was simply paying the deposit for As treatment. 
I dont however regard  that as particularly significant. Its quite possible that A provided the 
clinic and, indirectly, Omni Capital with Mr Bs details. And providing personal information 
isnt the same as agreeing to take out a £5,000  loan. In any event, theres no dispute that 
Mr B agreed to pay, and paid, the deposit for the treatment; so its not at all surprising that 
his details were on file. The issue though is whether  he agreed to take out the loan.
The loan application was made  and completed  online. That is, Mr B didnt have any face-to-
face discussions with Omni Capital or the clinic.  Omni Capital  hasnt been  able to provide 
complete information  about the online application process, although it has provided evidence  
that it was made from an IP address linked to Mr B and using  his mobile phone.
Omni Capital  has also provided  a copy of the completed loan agreement  dated 
5 January 2018. It includes  an electronic  signature  (which shows  the time it was signed and 
the IP address used). Its possible  that someone  else was able to apply for the loan using  
Mr Bs details  and then to sign the loan agreement using his IP address. On balance,  
though, I think  it more likely than not that Mr B did in fact agree to the loan. 
Ref: DRN86785662I stress though that my findings here concern only Mr Bs complaint that he didnt take out 
the loan. I havent considered other matters  for example, the extent to which (if at all) 
Omni Capital  should have  ensured  he understood what  he was agreeing to and whether it 
complied with its obligations to ensure he could afford the repayments.  (Mr B has made  a 
separate complaint about the latter.)
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Omni Capital Retail Finance  Limited  to do anything  
further to resolve  Mr Bs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision before 5 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8678566