K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc (M&S) wont  refund several  
transactions that were made on his credit card. He says he didnt authorise them.
background
Mr Gs complaint involves a complicated background with several  business  and professional 
relationships relevant  to whats happened. For ease of understanding  the following table 
summarises whos who:
Mr G The complainant and holder of the M&S  personal  credit card used to make 
the disputed transactions
Company I An electrical engineering business  for which Mr G was a Director
Company F Mr Gs financial  brokerage business
Mr R Mr Gs employee   he worked for Company F
Company M A building  development firm for which Company F brokered a loan with 
Company A
Company A A financial intermediary/commercial  money  lender that lent to Company M
Mr J A Director  of Company  M and Company I
In December 2017 a transaction of £6,573  debited Mr Gs personal  credit card account  to a 
building supplies merchant. A further  transaction  of £360 debited  the account  in January 
2018 to a plumbers merchant. A few days after that, £4,550 debited Mr Gs account in 
favour of a commercial money lender, Company A. Mr G says he didnt authorise these 
transactions.
In mid-February 2018 M&S telephoned Mr G as part of their know your customer 
obligations. They asked  him a number  of questions about his work and income and asked if 
everything was running ok with the credit card. Mr G said that it was, and explained he 
mainly used it for business  expenses.
A couple of weeks later Mr G telephoned  M&S. When the agent read out the recent 
transactions (which  didnt  include  the transaction to the building  supplies  merchant) Mr G 
said he recognised  the plumbers merchant  but had no knowledge of Company  A. Its worth 
noting at this point that the merchant  name  appearing on Mr Gs statement, and read out to 
him during this call, was slightly different to the name Company A used for its money lending 
activity, although  both included the same first word.
M&S agreed  to raise a chargeback against  Company  A, and a temporary credit of £4,550 
was applied to Mr Gs account. On 2 March  2018  M&S told Mr G that if he didnt hear from 
them within 60 days, that would mean his chargeback claim had been  successful.
In March 2018 Mr G wrote  to M&S attaching his destroyed card and telling them he also 
didnt recognise  the £360  transaction  to the plumbers  merchant.  He also changed the name 
on his business  bank account  (not held with M&S) from Mr G to Company F/Company M.
Someone on behalf of Company M wrote to Company A in March 2018 stating that Mr Gs 
card had been used in error , and that the amount of £4,550 was now subject to a 
chargeback. They offered  £27,500 to clear  the loan and said no chargeback requests would 
be made in respect  to other card payments  made  on the company credit card of [Company 
M].
Ref: DRN87419062Company M went into administration in early April 2018.
On 9 April 2018  Company  A emailed Mr Gs employee, Mr R. They  said that theyd  accept 
£27,500 in full and final settlement of Company Ms outstanding  loan. The offer was subject 
to no further chargebacks on credit card payments previously made. Mr G, on behalf of 
Company M, then paid Company A the final settlement amount from his business bank 
account.
On 19 April 2018 Mr G wrote  to M&S  disputing  the £6,573 payment to a building  supplies 
merchant. He said this was the second  time hed written to them about it.
Company A defended the chargeback for £4,550 explaining to M&S that Mr Gs business,  
Company F, had brokered the loan for Company M, and then paid the loan each month. 
Company A produced  an email  purporting to be from Mr G to Company A, dated 
6 December 2017, which read:
[Company M are having problems, I] contact you to see if you would be kind enough 
to leave the payment due today for payment late Monday afternoon  as the problems 
should be sorted by then.  If you are not happy  with this, do let me know  and I will 
make payment to you personally on my credit  card 
As the chargeback had been  defended,  M&S re-debited the temporary credit from Mr Gs 
account.
With regard to the £6,573 disputed payment, M&S  contacted the building supplies merchant. 
They said that the transaction was made by Mr R, working for Company F, whod said he 
was taking over a project of Company Ms. The invoices from the buildings  supplies 
merchant referenced Mr Rs first name.
M&S wrote to Mr G advising him theyd found no evidence of fraud and suggesting he 
resolve matters with Company A and the building supplies merchant directly.
Mr G complained to M&S. Within  several letters he made the following points:
He gave Company  A his card merely as security against a payment due from 
[Company M]  The fact the merchant obtained the details does not provide  consent 
from myself  the card user for them  to take payment 
He was not party to the agreement between Company A and Company M.
Mr R was working for him and had access to the business credit card.
He didnt provide  Company A with his credit  card details.
The email Company A had produced was false  his email  address had been used 
without his knowledge.
The final settlement paid by Company M to Company A was paid on the basis of 
£4,550 being successfully charged back to his credit  card  Company A had ended  
up being overpaid.
He suspected someone at Company M had purported to be Mr R and used his card 
with the building supplies merchant.
Mr R had no access to Mr Gs personal credit card.
The goods supplied  by the buildings supplies merchant were delivered to an address 
he didnt recognise.
Ref: DRN87419063M&S issued  their final response on 22 June 2018.  They didnt accept there  had been any 
fraud and told Mr G hed have to pursue Company A for a refund.
In a letter to M&S dated August 2018  Mr G said hed first disputed  the payment to the 
building supplies merchant on 20 January 2018.
In October  2018 after M&S received details of Mr Gs complaint from us, they noted that 
theyd not investigated the disputed payment to the plumbers  merchant and asked Mr G to 
contact them  with more  details about  the transaction.
What Mr G told us
When Mr G contacted our service, he initially only complained about the disputed transaction 
to Company A. He later included  the £6,573 to a building  supplies merchant and the £360 to 
a plumbers merchant.  He said hed raised  disputes about these with M&S  on 30 December 
2017 and 28 January  2018 respectively. He said all the disputed transactions  resulted from 
his card being compromised. When asked for more detail about  how his card came to be 
used by a third party or parties, Mr G has said the following:
His card was given to Company A as security.
There had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by Company A which  
entitled him to a refund  of the £4,550 payment under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
His card details were obtained  by Company  M and were used in error and without 
his knowledge.
He was travelling out of the country around  the time of these transactions and so 
paid the balance without seeing his statements.
Mr G also provided  us with an email from Company A, dated 13 September 2018,  addressed  
to Mr R/Mr  G which read:
 The fact the £4,550.00 charge back was reversed is a problem for you and your 
credit card company. The settlement figure agreed  was based on the chargeback 
been [sic] undertaken by your credit  card company and as such  we have at no 
material time asked you to pay any amount greater than what as agreed and the 
error is with your credit card company and not us.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld  Mr Gs complaint. He didnt think Mr G had given M&S enough 
information about the £360 payment to a plumbers  merchant, so he didnt think they should 
have done more about that. But he thought they should refund him the transactions to 
Company A and the building supplies merchant because there  wasnt enough evidence that 
hed authorised them.
He said, although  Mr G may have provided  his card details to Company A, there is evidence  
that he withdrew his consent to any transactions. He pointed  to a copy of an email (provided 
by Mr G to M&S),  dated 18 December 2017,  from Company A to Mr R which said:
 I hope  youre well and have passed on your requests for your credit  card details 
not to be used in respect to payment on behalf of [Company M].
Ref: DRN87419064So, our investigator thought Company  A had taken the payment  without  Mr Gs consent.
With regard to the transaction to the building supplies merchant, he said only Mr R had been 
linked with this transaction, not Mr G, and he didnt  think it likely Mr G had given his personal 
credit card details to Mr R. He concluded  that either Mr R, or someone posing as Mr R, 
made this payment without Mr Gs knowledge.
M&S didnt  accept our investigators view. In particular, they pointed out theres no evidence  
Mr G disputed the £6,573 payment before April 2018, despite having had several 
opportunities to raise  it before  then. So, they asked for an Ombudsman  to review everything  
afresh.
Further information
Due to the complex  business and professional relationships involved in this case  I asked 
Mr G to explain more about  his business,  his relationship with Company M, who Mr R is, and 
how he thinks his M&S  credit card details  were compromised.
Mr G explained:
His business, Company F, sourced business  loan facilities for Company M and was 
contacted by Company A when Company M fell into arrears.
Mr R was an employee of Company F and was the account manager  for 
Company M; he arranged the loan from Company A.
Mr G agreed  to get involved in helping Company M fund a large project  on the basis 
that a new company  would be set up which he would take a stake in so to ensure all 
repayments were made as any issues would affect our credibility  with our lending  
partners.
He had looked to take over and run a number of contracts  run by Company M and so 
changed the name on his business  bank account in March 2018  to reflect  Company  
Ms name, as well as that of Company F, for continuity of invoicing. However, he 
didnt end up taking  over any of Company Ms contracts.
He said he was shown evidence that Company M were expecting a large payment 
(£3-4million) and on that basis he said his business credit card (Company Is card) 
could be given to Company A as security  for the loan, but someone either in error  or 
deliberately gave Company A his personal  credit  card details.
He thinks a Director of Company M, Mr J, or Mr R accessed his email, without his 
knowledge, and sent the email to Company A on 6 December 2017 offering payment 
on Mr Gs personal credit  card.
Mr R had access to and was authorised  to use a credit  card for Company F purposes 
 My card could  be used for any business-related expense  for Company F and at no 
time for Company M or Company I as they all had their own company credit card.
His M&S credit card (or a copy of it) was kept with Company Is finance  records, in a 
locked cupboard, and Mr R could have got the details from there or from Company Is 
Secretary.
Company Is Secretary was paying  Mr Gs credit card balances for him while he was 
away  The transactions should have been for personal use and or business-related 
expenses as part of my duties for Company I to be reclaimed .
When asked whether Mr R had permission to use Mr Gs M&S  card he said,  not for 
Company M, but he could use it for Company  F if the business  credit card could not 
be found when  needed.
He thinks Mr R may have been pressured by Mr J to use Mr Gs personal credit card.
Ref: DRN87419065He first found out his card had been used to make the £6,573 payment to a building 
supplies merchant at the end of February/beginning  of March 2018.
Before raising any dispute  he first sought to establish whether the goods  bought  were  
related to work being carried out at Company Fs offices . He said he was not initially 
aware of who the building supplies merchant  were and whether they had supplied 
goods for the works being  done at his property.
Payments were  made to Company Ms creditors via Mr Gs business account 
because Company I and Company  M shared some Directors  and they wanted  to 
make sure the creditors were paid.
Mr R left the business (Company F), did not provide a promised statement on oath  
about what happened and his mobile is no longer  connected.
I also asked Mr G to explain  why hes often  communicated with us from a personal email 
address (i.e. one not associated with Company  F) in the name of Mr R. Mr G explained that 
he diverts his emails to Mr R when hes not in the office and so his replies to our emails will 
sometimes come out from Mr Rs personal  email.
Other available information
To better understand  the relevant relationships  Ive looked to publicly available information 
such as the edited electoral roll, historic domain registration records,  the Companies House 
register, and also information we hold on file. I think the following information is relevant:
There are some  records  relating  to Mr R that can be linked  to Mr G  for example, 
records for Mr R give Mr Gs home address  in 2015 and 2018.
Records suggest Mr G uses several variations of his name.
Website domain registration records show Mr R, not Mr G, as the registered owner of 
Company Fs website.
Mr G was a Director of Company I until May 2018. Company Is previous registered 
address was the subject of a charge registered against Company  M.
Company I shared  at least three company  officers  with Company M.
Mr G has previously made a witness statement for court  proceedings giving his 
address as an address which was the registered address of Company M from August 
2017 to April 2018.
In that witness statement, dated June 2018, he said hed agreed to be a personal  
guarantor for another of Company Ms loans  for a short period, and that hed made 
payments towards that loan when Company M faced difficulties.
The signature of Mr Rs Company F email address gave a mobile telephone number 
which is the same number Mr G has given us to contact him on.
Mr G corresponded  with us from Mr Rs personal  email  address (i.e. not one 
associated with Company F) in February  2019, July 2019 and August 2020.
Mr G has disputed three transactions on another personal credit card to Company A 
 these happened in December 2017, January 2018  and March  2018.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 23 October  2020.  In that decision I acknowledged that 
when considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant time.  
Ill set out the relevant considerations below.
Ref: DRN87419066Of particular importance  to my decision about  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment  Services Regulations 2009 (the PSR 
2009) and 2017 (the PSR 2017)  which  apply  to transactions  like the ones Mr G disputes. 
The PSR 2009  applied to transactions made before 13 January 2018, and the PSR 2017 
apply to transactions made on or after that date. Among other things the PSR 2017 include 
the following  (similar wording was used in the PSR 2009, Regulation 55):
Regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 explains:
67.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the 
payer for the purposes of this Part only if the payer  has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; or
(b) the execution  of a series of payment transactions of which that payment 
transaction forms part.
Whether a payment transaction  has been  authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments.
Where credit  is involved, as in this case, the PSR 2017 (and the PSR 2009) make provision 
for the Consumer Credit  Act (CCA)  1974  to apply  in place of certain sections of the PSR. 
These provisions cant be excluded by the account  terms. A consumers  liability  for 
payments involving a credit facility  is therefore  set out in section 83 of the CCA  1974.
Section 83 of the CCA 1974 says that a consumer isnt liable for any loss arising  from use 
of the credit  facility by another  person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the debtors 
agent.
The PSR 2017  also include information relevant to when a payer  wishes to revoke a 
payment order. Regulation  83 (in the PSR 2009,  Regulation 67) says:
83.  (2) In the case of a payment transaction initiated  by or through the payee, 
the payer may not revoke the payment order after  giving consent to execute  the 
payment transaction to the payee 
Terms and conditions of Mr Gs account
The terms and conditions  of the credit card agreement included the following:
2.3 If you, or an additional cardholder, allow someone else to use a card or the card 
number, you will be liable  for all transactions they make until you tell us that the card 
may be misused using  the contact details set out below 
Having set out the relevant considerations in my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not currently  
persuaded that it would  be fair and reasonable to say M&S should refund Mr G. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN87419067Taking into account the above relevant considerations, I think the key question  here 
is whether Mr G, or someone that can be treated as acting as his agent, made the 
disputed transactions.
Authorisation isnt limited to transactions for which explicit permission  has been 
given; M&S  would also be entitled  to hold Mr G liable for any transactions  which were 
done by someone  to whom he gave authority to act on his behalf. In other words, if a 
payer has permitted the use of his payment instrument by a third party (an agent) so 
that it looks to the bank  like the payment transaction has been authorised by the 
payer, the payment can be considered authorised for the purposes of the PSR 2009  
and 2017.
That isnt to say that Mr G would be responsible for any transactions where the 
payment instruction received  by the bank  is indistinguishable  from one he gave 
actual authority for. For example, a payment transaction carried  out by someone 
whod stolen Mr Gs card details would still rightly be described  as unauthorised, 
even though it might have  the same appearance from the banks perspective as a 
genuine transaction.
The important consideration here is what part Mr G played in permitting the 
transactions he disputes. So, Ive thought  about whether Mr G authorised  these 
transactions himself  or whether by his actions  Mr G held Mr R, or another  agent,  out 
as having his authority to make payment transactions using his credit card.  Ill look at 
each disputed transaction in turn.
The £6,573 payment to a building supplies merchant
M&S established by speaking  with this merchant that it was someone  purporting to 
be Mr R that made this transaction and that it was linked to a planned takeover of 
Company M, or its contracts, by Mr R/Company F. I think its possible that although 
the merchant  thought  they were dealing with Mr R, they might  well have been dealing  
with Mr G directly  here. I think theres evidence that Mr G and Mr R have, on 
occasion, corresponded with others using each others email addresses  and contact 
details. Indeed, Mr G has corresponded with us from Mr Rs personal email  address 
very recently, even  though hes also said Mr R no longer works for Company F and is 
not contactable.
Mr G has also explained that he was planning to take over some  of Company Ms 
work, and that fits with what  the merchant said they were told about  the 
circumstances of the transaction by Mr R. Ive thought  about  whether Mr R might  be 
an alias that Mr G uses.  This would  explain  why Mr R seems  to own the domain 
name for Company F and has given Mr Gs home  address  as his own in the past. If 
thats the case, then I think Mr G is firmly  linked  to this transaction  by what the 
merchant said, and that he gave actual authority for it. But if Im wrong about that, 
and Mr R is not an alias for Mr G but a genuine employee of Company F, Im still 
minded to say it would be fair and reasonable to treat this transaction  as authorised 
by Mr G.
This is because I think Mr G clothed Mr R with the authority to use his card. In other 
words, he gave him the status of his agent.  Although Mr G hasnt  always  been 
consistent about whether Mr R had access to his personal credit card,  from what  hes 
said I think its more likely  than not the arrangement was that Mr R could use Mr Gs 
Ref: DRN87419068M&S credit card for business  purposes  so long as he asked permission  first. I dont 
think theres any evidence  Mr R stole Mr Gs credit  card details.  I think  Mr G willingly 
gave Mr R access to them. As such, I think its reasonable  for M&S  to hold Mr G 
responsible for what Mr R then did.
Ultimately M&S would not have suffered this loss if Mr G hadnt  permitted Mr R to 
use his card. And its a loss I think M&S are entitled to recover from Mr G. It is, after 
all, reasonable  to contemplate that if you allow someone to use your credit card for 
transactions with the mere expectation  that theyll ask your permission before doing 
so, they might go further and make more transactions than you know about. Theres 
an obvious risk that flows  from leaving  your work  colleagues with a copy  of your 
credit card to use when the need  arises, and it wouldnt  be fair to say the credit 
provider, M&S, should be liable  for what the colleagues spent.
I also think its likely Mr G knew  that Mr R was using his card to pay for building  
supplies because hes said that before  disputing  any transaction hed check  to see 
whether the supplies  bought were connected  to works being carried out at Company 
Fs offices. Although  hes said he disputed this transaction before 19 April 2018, hes 
given several different  dates for when he did so. And if he did raise the dispute in 
January or February, I find it odd that he didnt make any mention of it, or ask for an 
update, in his telephone conversations with M&S staff in February 2018. I think this 
suggests Mr G knew  about  this transaction and was comfortable with it at the time 
because the supplies  bought were  connected to his plan to take forward some  of 
Company Ms contracts.
So, on balance, I currently think Mr G, or his agent, authorised  this transaction.
The £360  payment to a plumbers merchant
This payment is one that we know  little about  as neither M&S nor Mr G contacted the 
merchant to establish any details about what it was for, or the identity of who made 
the purchase. It is disappointing that M&S  didnt spot that Mr G was disputing this 
transaction earlier, as they missed an opportunity to find out more  about it and 
possibly raise a chargeback. However, its a payment  that Mr G originally, in a call 
with M&S on 28 February 2018, said he recognised. It wasnt  until 17 March that Mr 
G wrote  to M&S and said this wasnt authorised  by him.
Mr G has explained that some of the delay to his raising disputes  was due to the fact 
he would  check transactions to see whether  the merchant had supplied goods  for the 
works being done at his property. This suggests to me that Mr G was expecting 
transactions on his M&S credit card related  to building and plumbing works, and that 
he wasnt always the person making those transactions. He allowed his colleague, or 
colleagues, to use his card for this purpose.
So, as Ive explained above,  I think Mr G, by his actions in leaving his credit card at 
their disposal, clothed his colleagues or employees  with an appearance of authority. 
If his colleagues  made  more transactions than Mr G was expecting,  or made 
transactions without  first seeking his approval, I can see why Mr G feels he shouldnt 
be liable  for them. But theres no basis here on which to hold M&S  liable. It was Mr G 
that exposed M&S  to the risk of loss through the way he managed his card and 
security details. Its fair that M&S  hold him liable for the spending of those persons he 
made his agents.
Ref: DRN87419069The £4,550 payment to Company A
Mr G has sought to show that he was merely the broker or an intermediary for the 
loan agreement between  Company A and Company M. But I think  the evidence 
points to Mr G having  a more complicated relationship with Company M than that of 
broker and client. Hes used a previously  registered  address of Company M as his 
own; he changed the name  of his business  bank  account to include the name  of 
Company M; he had plans to take over some of Company  Ms contracts; he acted as 
personal guarantor  for another  of Company Ms loans; and a business hes a Director 
of, Company I, shared at least  three company officers  with Company M. So, I think  
Mr G was more  interested in making sure Company  Ms debts were paid than hes 
suggested.
Mr G has said I should  disregard as evidence  the email purporting to be from him to 
Company A, dated 6 December 2017, in which Company Ms cash flow problems 
were acknowledged  and an offer was made to make payment to you personally  on 
my credit card . He thinks this was sent either  by Mr R or Mr J. But Im not 
persuaded thats the case. As Ive already  said, I think Mr G had left his credit card 
details at the disposal of his colleagues.  In those circumstances, theyd have  had no 
need to pretend to be Mr G when communicating with Company A. Mr R was already 
in regular communication with Company A about  Company M  Mr Gs described  him 
as the account  manager.
On balance, taking  into account his links to and involvement in Company Ms affairs,  
I think its likely Mr G made this offer to Company  A himself. I appreciate  he may 
have later regretted doing so and tried to withdraw  his consent. But I dont  find the 
email dated 18 December 2017,  from Company A to Mr R, which  refers to a request 
for Mr Rs credit  card details not to be used to pay Company Ms debt, sufficient  
evidence that Mr G asked  for his M&S  credit  card not to be debited.  Its even possible 
the M&S  credit card details were supplied  to Company A after this email and closer in 
time to 25 January  2018 when this transaction occurred.
I say this because  in December 2017  and earlier in January 2018 Company A 
initiated payments  from another of Mr Gs personal credit cards  (those  transactions  
are the subject of a separate complaint and Ill address those in a separate decision). 
If theyd had Mr Gs M&S credit card details before mid-January 2018 it seems  likely 
Company A would have used them. I also think the fact that more  than one of Mr Gs 
personal credit cards  was involved  in transactions with Company A suggests he 
knew about and authorised payments to them.
I can see that Mr G is very upset that Company A defended the chargeback because 
his understanding was that the settlement  figure reached for Company Ms loan took 
into account the £4,550  being refunded to him. Having looked  at the information 
available to me about that negotiation, I dont think its entirely clear  whether the final 
settlement figure assumed a successful chargeback or not; although  its clear  Mr G 
intended it to.
But even if that were clearer, I dont think it would be possible for Mr G to raise a 
claim under s.75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract on the part of Company A. And thats because, as hes said himself, he 
Ref: DRN874190610didnt have the requisite relationship with Company A; Mr G had no contract with 
Company A, he was paying on behalf of Company M.
So, taking everything  into account, I am currently persuaded that M&S is fairly 
entitled to hold Mr G liable  for the disputed transactions in this case .
responses to my provisional  findings
In response to my provisional decision M&S agreed  with the outcome and made  no further  
comments.
Mr G didnt accept what Id said. He said that leaving  his card details in the office does not 
make him liable for the transactions; this has been a straight forward abuse  of trust by 
others. He also provided some further  evidence.
Telephone calls
Mr G provided  a copy of an itemised  telephone bill for his home landline, covering the period 
11 January to 9 February 2018,  which included  two calls to an M&S telephone number; one 
on 13 January and one on 18 January 2018. He said this is evidence he contacted them and 
that following  that contact no further  payments should have been allowed to have been  
made on my card.
For reference, the £6,573 payment to a building supplies merchant debited on 12 December 
2017 (included on the statement dated 24 December). The £360 payment to a plumbers 
merchant debited on 22 January 2018  (included on the statement dated 23 January). The 
£4,550 payment to Company A debited  on 25 January 2018 (included on the statement 
dated 23 February).
I asked M&S about these  calls. They were able to provide a recording of the call which took 
place on 18 January 2018,  but they couldnt provide one for the call on 13 January. They 
explained there are no memos on the account from that date, and their call log showed it as 
having no associated adviser . M&S also provided  a recording of a call which  took place on 
19 December 2017.
Ive listened to both of these recordings.  The call on 19 December 2017 was made  by M&S 
to Mr G and the purpose was to confirm, in response to a letter hed sent them, that his 
credit limit was now £10,000 (recently increased  from £2,000).
As for the call Mr G made on 18 January 2018, the purpose was to query  why M&S had 
taken a payment  for the balance by direct debit  when hed already paid the balance of his 
December statement (£6983.54) by bank transfer  on 13 January. The agent  explained  the 
timings involved in stopping the balance being  paid by direct debit and refunded Mr G the 
amount of the bank transfer. Mr G didnt mention any dispute about the transaction  which  
was largely responsible for the balance  the £6,573  payment to a building supplies 
merchant.
Statement from Mr R
Mr G also submitted a statement from Mr R, acquired through a private detective. In the 
statement Mr R said:
He worked for Company F and from the offices  of Company I.
Ref: DRN874190611He worked with suppliers who requested payment and was asked to use the 
company credit  card as security, in Mr Gs name, whilst he got [the company  
secretary/Mr J]  to directly settle these  liabilities.
At no time did I intend to use the personal  credit  card of Mr G, and only used the 
details as provided to me by [the company secretary]  I am of the view that Mr Gs 
card was deliberately  provided to me 
He didnt make all of the disputed transactions  and Mr G was not aware of them 
either.
 the card details  must have been provided  by someone else in the office,  who had 
access to the credit  cards  of Mr G without his knowledge and consent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Gs 
complaint.
For all the reasons set out in my provisional  decision (reproduced  above) I still think  its more 
likely than not that Mr G either  made the disputed  transactions himself or, by his actions, 
authorised someone  else to make them.
Ive thought carefully about whether the new evidence Mr G has provided changes anything. 
But I dont think it does.  I still dont  think theres any evidence Mr G disputed  the £6,573  
payment to a building supplies  merchant  before April 2018.
Its unfortunate that M&S  cant  provide me with any more detail about the call Mr G made  to 
one of their numbers on 13 January 2018. But having listened to the call from 18 January I 
think the earlier call more  likely than not related to Mr G arranging  his payment of the 
December balance by bank transfer.  And I dont think  its likely  hed have done  that  paid 
the balance a few days before it was even  due, on 13 January  if hed been concerned 
about any of the transactions  which had created  that balance.
I also think that if the call on 13 January 2018 involved Mr G disputing that payment, M&S 
would have a record of it and their usual disputed transaction processes would have been 
started, just as they were  when Mr G disputed the £4,550 payment to Company  A when he 
spoke with M&S staff in February 2018. On that occasion M&S  agreed to raise  a 
chargeback, applied a temporary credit of the disputed amount to Mr Gs account, cancelled  
his card and issued a new one with a new PIN. So, if Mr G had disputed the £6,573 payment 
on 13 January, I think similar actions would  have been taken.
The fact that M&S  didnt  start their disputed transaction processes on 13 January 2018,  the 
fact that Mr G paid the balance of his December statement  on that day, and the fact he didnt 
mention this dispute during the call on 18 January  (a call that was specifically about the 
payment of this balance) all lead me to conclude its unlikely Mr G disputed the £6,573  
payment around  this time.
I also remain mindful that Mr G gave no indication of any problems with this account  during 
M&Ss know your customer  call in February  2018.  And hes given an inconsistent  account 
about when he first disputed this transaction. So, on balance, Im not persuaded he did 
dispute the £6,573  payment  until April 2018,  even though he had a number of opportunities 
to do so. And this strongly suggests  that, even if he didnt make  the transaction  himself, he 
Ref: DRN874190612was comfortable  with it at the time.  This was, I think,  a transaction  Mr G knew about,  and 
which related to his relationship with Company M and his plans to take over some of their 
projects.
Turning to the statement Mr G has provided  from Mr R, I dont find this sufficient evidence to 
change what I said in my provisional decision. Although I accept the statement indicates  
Mr R isnt an alias for Mr G, I still think,  if someone other  than Mr G made these transactions,  
it was a colleague or colleagues who Mr G had clothed with his apparent  authority to 
transact by allowing  them  to access and use his personal credit card.
Mr G hasnt been consistent in what hes said about the access  colleagues had. But what 
hes said suggests they had access and his permission  to use the card in a limited  way and 
went beyond what he expected. Hes described what  happened  as an abuse  of trust.
I accept it is possible that Mr G asked Mr R to give some security to Company A, and Mr R 
unintentionally gave  Company A Mr Gs M&S  card details rather  than a company credit 
card. But that doesnt mean  the transaction on the M&S card was unauthorised. The risk of 
an error like this is one that Mr G exposed himself  to by giving Mr R permission to use the 
M&S card for Company  F if the business  credit card could not be found  when needed.  Its a 
risk he exposed himself to by allowing Company Is Secretary to manage his personal credit 
card.
That said,  I still think its likely Mr G intended his personal credit card to be used at the time. 
The email  from Mr Gs Company F email  address  to Company A, dated  6 December 2017, 
strongly suggests this. And I think the complex relationship Mr G had with Company  M 
meant that he was personally interested in their loan being repaid. I dont doubt that he 
thought hed get his £4,550 back from Company M. But the fact that he didnt  get his money  
back from Company M, doesnt  mean  he didnt authorise the payment and doesnt mean 
hes entitled to a refund from M&S.
For completeness, the new evidence Mr G has provided doesnt change what  I said in my 
provisional decision about the £360  payment to a plumbers merchant either. The telephone  
calls that hes evidenced he made  were both before the date of this transaction (22 January 
2018), so couldnt have related to a dispute  about it. Its also a payment that Mr G originally, 
in a call with M&S on 28 February 2018,  said he recognised. So, I think he either  made the 
transaction himself  or this is one of the transactions hed allowed a colleague to make  using  
his card.
In conclusion, on the balance of the evidence, I think its more  likely than not that Mr G made 
or otherwise authorised the transactions that he disputes. On that basis, I find M&Ss refusal 
to refund Mr G fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8741906