K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr P aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding it to his mortgage. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr P applied for his 
mortgage and PPI but Halifax has sent us a copy of the available  paperwork. Mr P signed an 
application form separate from his mortgage to apply for the PPI so I think  he would have 
been aware that the PPI wasnt  a condition of the mortgage. I also think  that Halifax made  it 
clear Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr P so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. Mr P 
has told us that he would  have been  entitled to generous sick pay from his employer when 
he took the policy and received redundancy pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to the benefits  he would have received  and helped provide financial support at a difficult 
time.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ps circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr P has also told us that he asked Halifax to cancel the PPI policy  in 1997 but later found 
this request hadnt been actioned and that he had continued to pay for the PPI until 1999. I 
have seen a written request signed by Mr P requesting his policy  be cancelled in 1999. I 
Ref: DRN89224782havent seen any evidence to show any other cancellation request was made. The request 
made in 1999  doesnt mention any other  previous request not being actioned, so I think its 
most likely that a request to cancel the policy wasnt made until 1999.
Mr P has told us he had reason to claim under the PPI in 1998 when he was made  
redundant. I understand Mr P is now attempting to make a retrospective claim for this.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8922478