K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a hire 
purchase agreement  in 2009.  Mr L says First Response  Finance Ltd mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr L says that he was sold PPI without  his knowledge when he applied  for borrowing to buy 
a car. Mr L was purchasing the car at a dealership   and in order  to get finance he needed to 
speak with First Response. Theres no call recording available, but this isnt surprising given 
the sale took place so long ago. But First Response has provided a call script that was in 
use at the time. This shows that the advisor  was prompted to point out that the PPI was 
optional  and gain consent for it to be added to the agreement. While I cant  be certain how 
closely this script was followed,  I havent seen anything to suggest that First Response  did 
anything differently when it sold Mr L the PPI. 
First Response has also provided  a copy of Mr Ls hire purchase agreement   this also 
presents the PPI as optional  and Mr L has signed to select it. This is separate  for his 
signature for the agreement itself. So taking everything in to account,  I think  First Response 
made it clear  that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although 
I can understand why he cant remember this as it was a long time ago
First Response recommended the PPI to Mr L so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information First Response gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - but these points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr L paid on his PPI  and whether  First Response  
treated him unfairly. 
First Response has told us that the commission for Mr Ls PPI was less than half of what  he 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how First Response has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ls commission  was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about  the commission  
so I dont think First Response  treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr L 
back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN86376182my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8637618