K820x#14complaint
Mr S, an ownerdirector of L, complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI)  declined his 
companys claim under  the Public  and Products Liability section of its Business Insurance  
Service policy.  
For ease, references  to Mr S include acts or omissions of company L  and vice versa. 
background
In October  2001, Mr S took out a Business Insurance Service policy with UKI for his 
business, M, which was renewed annually. The business description recorded  at the time 
was Distribution of Dental Equipment & Supplies  and Installation  of Surgery Equipment. 
Looking at the subsequent renewal schedules that weve copies of, this description never 
changed. 
In 2010, Mr S called  UKI about his renewal schedule. The recorded notes say he explained 
that under  the products liability section, theres a question  [a]re any of the products  you 
manufacture or supply  used in the following  trades?  Medical / Pharmaceuticals.  Mr S 
confirmed the answer  should be yes instead  of no, as he supplied  sundries to vets and 
medical surgeries. UKI said it wouldnt cover  this  and looking at the subsequent  schedules, 
the question was updated and an endorsement  excluding cover was added.  
In September  2015, Mr S called  UKI  the notes left show he wanted  to remove  one of the 
business premises and change an address. Mr S wrote to UKI in the same  month.  The 
letterhead gave the new business name L alongside  the phrase Distributors  of Medical & 
Hygiene Products. It read: 
Further to our conversation I have  confirmed in writing the amendments and 
information updates for the business insurance  policy as above.
Please amend the company details to [L] from [M] and the new single  property 
location at the address shown below  where all business is being  carried  out. As 
stated the business operation has moved  toward  to more medical and hygiene 
products and therefore the public / product liability to reflect  this. Our customer  base 
has therefore moved to include Clinics, Salons, Tattoo Studios to which we offer a 
saline solution,  numerous single use disposables  and consumable  products. 
Please therefore  make  the necessary amendments and confirm the new premium  
amounts which  will be continued  to be paid by direct  debit as normal. 
Please contact me if you require any further information.
UKI renewed  Ls policy the following month  under the same terms. 
In September  2016, Trading Standards visited Ls premises  in connection with the 
production and supply of saline solution to tattoo  and piercing studios which  had allegedly  
led to several infections. They told L to stop making the product and seized its computers to 
carry out an investigation.
Shortly afterwards, Mr S called UKI  he asked whether the insurance covered him for 
manufacturing. The adviser said no, and Mr S asked what hed need to do if he did that 
Ref: DRN86376492activity. The adviser  confirmed with Mr S that he was manufacturing and explained that the 
case would  need  to be passed to a broker, who could give him a quote. Mr S called UKI 
again a few days later and requested  the policy wording, as he was obtaining legal advice. 
On 21 September  2016, Ls solicitor wrote  to UKI, requesting the policy wording and claims 
forms. It replied  saying  it couldnt trace Ls policy. On 14 October 2016, Ls solicitors wrote to 
UKI again, and notified it of the potential claims under the policy  for costs L would need to 
pay as damages for personal injury. In January  2017, UKI appointed a loss adjuster, and in 
April 2017, its solicitors  sent a letter to L explaining that it was still investigating, and it 
reserved its rights to provide cover under the policy. 
On 31 August 2017, UKI rejected Ls claim. In summary: 
L didnt notify UKI straightaway about  the potential claims. It pointed to the policys 
general condition  that L should do so immediately. UKI said that by not doing  so, it 
compromised UKIs access to information because Trading Standards seized Ls 
computers. 
Ls business  description was incorrect  it didnt mention that it manufactured the 
products. UKI relied on a general condition that the policy  would stop if theres any 
material alteration to the business.  
UKI pointed out that Ls cover didnt  include products knowingly used in the 
medical/pharmaceutical trade  which is how it categorised this product. 
Unhappy with this, and the subsequent complaint response where UKI maintained its 
position, L brought the matter to us.
In January 2020, I issued a second provisional  decision, that didnt uphold  the complaint. In 
summary, I explained: 
UKI had highlighted a further general  condition of the policy, which obliged L to take 
all reasonable  precautions  to  comply with all statutory obligations and regulations  
imposed by any authority. To determine  whether  L did this, Id looked at the test of 
recklessness  whether L recognised a risk but took it anyway by taking either 
measures which he knew were inadequate to avert it; or no measures at all. 
L seemed to recognise that making  your own saline solution  carried  risks  he initially  
boiled the water, and then bought demineralised  water. And I thought  L wouldve 
realised hed statutory  obligations  when he manufactured products, given the 
regulations he complied with in distributing products.
L was found guilty of eight offences under the Cosmetic Products Enforcement 
Regulations 2013  so this wasnt just a couple  of technicalities he overlooked. And 
he received a fine and a nine-month  prison sentence,  which suggested a more  
serious degree of culpability;  or at least fewer  mitigating factors.  
Given these circumstances, I didnt  think L met the general condition  of the policy  
and, therefore,  UKI fairly declined the claim.  
UKI replied and noted that a new ruling  had been  made on a different ground. L replied and 
disagreed with my findings. In summary:
L was asked  to manufacture this by tattoo  and piercing studios because customers 
werent dealing  with the aftercare of their piercings  properly  by making a salt-water  
solution at home and cleaning it regularly. He was asked  for a simple, non-sterile 
product. It was supplied at minimal  cost,  so studios could give it away  free-of-charge. 
Ref: DRN86376493Public Health England  and other  bodies advise that you can use a salt-water  remedy  
in lieu of a sterile solution. So L did exactly what was recommended. Hed no reason 
to stop and there were no complaints. 
Ls studios were regularly visited by local and environmental health officers   no 
concerns were raised.  
L held a Medicines and Healthcare  products Regulatory Agency (MRHA) license, 
which cost a significant sum. If he thought  there were similar regulations  for 
manufacturing saline,  hed have complied diligently. MHRA  also visited frequently   
and no concerns were  raised.   
The need to comply with the Cosmetic Products Enforcement Regulations 2013 
wasnt drawn to his attention by anyone: including MRHA, health inspectors and the 
insurers. Theres nothing to suggest he was aware, and he decided to pick and 
choose which regulations to follow. 
Mr S changed from boiling water to demineralised water because  a representative 
from the company  that sold it to him suggested  it. Theres nothing inherently  risky in 
demineralised water   its used in dental practices etc. There are no regulations as to 
its use; the same with salt.
The insurer knew about the saline product; it didnt ask whether he was complying 
with the relevant regulations or impose  special conditions. 
The bacteria  likely  came from the barrel which held the demineralised water. The 
bacteria found  is very rare; its propensity to cause  damage  even  more  so. 
Mr S made very little profit. It was often given  for free  by him to the studios and by 
the studios to its customers.  If he wanted  to profit, why buy demineralised  water 
rather than turning on the tap. 
Ls sentencing  was based on the injury caused.  He paid £5,000  the de minimis sum 
in applications  under the Proceeds  of Crime Act. The prosecution didnt allege the 
benefit was any more, and L chose  not to defend that it was less, despite that the 
reality was likely different. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ive not changed my mind about  the 
outcome of this complaint. Ill explain why. 
L submits it manufactured saline solution  in a way that exactly  followed various bodies 
recommendations for the aftercare of a piercing. It might have been enough to look after a 
consumers own personal piercing but that doesnt  mean its enough for retail purposes,  
irrespective of profit. And I think even personal use would  be questionable  the advice 
seems to suggest preparing a small amount,  likely for immediate use. Thats  quite different 
to making one large batch and storing it for some  time before use. L hasnt provided 
independent expert  evidence to show the risks were comparable  or that it sought  and 
relied on such advice  at the time to avert the risks. 
And in any event, Im not persuaded Mr S wouldve thought  there would be no difference 
between advice for your own personal  aftercare and regulations for a professional 
manufacturing a product  thats going to be used by lots of people.  Particularly considering 
the numerous regulations that existed  for distributing  which,  as L submits,  it both knew  about 
and followed  diligently.  
In saying this, Ive considered Ls point that its regulatory compliance in distributing  suggests 
it wouldve  complied for manufacturing too  showing Mr S just didnt realise there were rules 
Ref: DRN86376494L wasnt meeting. But I dont think applying the halo effect sufficiently answers  how 
someone who worked for some time in distributing would simply assume  that manufacturing 
carries no such  regulation. And Im mindful that, to be reckless, Mr S didnt need to know the 
in-and-outs of all the various regulations L wasnt meeting. Instead, he just needed to 
recognise there was a risk he wasnt meeting his obligations for manufacturing  and either, 
take steps he knew wouldnt be enough, or do nothing at all. Given  Mr Ss prior experience, I 
think its more likely  than not that he realised there was at least  a risk he wasnt doing things 
properly  and I think its equally  likely  that he knew the steps he was taking were not 
adequate to protect against it. 
In considering this, Ive thought about  Ls explanation for why it changed  from boiling  water 
to demineralised water, and how using demineralised  water  wasnt inherently risky  what  
happened here was just very unlucky. The point I made in my provisional findings  was that 
both methods  boiling  and using  demineralised  water  suggest  an understanding that 
making a saline solution for aftercare carries some risk. If L was completely oblivious to risk, 
it seems likely it wouldve simply used tap water. And even if the demineralised  water wasnt  
inherently risky, I dont think L wouldve just assumed it met its statutory and regulatory  
obligations. Afterall, you may say theres  nothing  obviously risky in distributing products  but 
L still recognised that it had obligations.   
L also points out how no-one  raised an issue with what was happening.  Im mindful that 
those visiting were  likely doing so in the course  of Ls operation as a distributor. But in any 
event, I dont require  evidence that L was specifically told that he wasnt meeting the 
regulations. I think the facts and circumstances, as explained, are enough for me to 
conclude that Mr S wouldve recognised the risk.
This applies similarly to Ls point  about how people didnt make complaints. That doesnt 
mean L was doing things as they ought to be done, and, more importantly, that Mr S didnt 
foresee any risk that the operation might not be running as it ought to have been. A negative 
 i.e. no complaints   proves nothing. 
In my provisional decision,  I suggested  the business  opportunity made L willing to court the 
risks. L commented in response that profit wasnt the driver  the saline solution was often 
given away for free. Its not necessary for me to determine why L, despite recognising the 
operation may not be strictly compliant, carried on regardless. But it remains there were 
plausible motivations for recklessness or corner-cutting, profit aside. Businesses often give 
away things at low or no cost as loss leaders to generate goodwill and future custom. Also, 
it seems this was something  L did on the side. And if it wasnt going to make much money, I 
can see the temptation to overlook regulation  that mightve been costly and time-consuming. 
But all of this doesnt mean L was ignorant  to its existence. 
Ive also considered Ls explanation for the sentencing and fine given. Again, Ive no copy of 
the actual sentencing remarks.  So its difficult for me to conclude  the sentence  was purely  a 
reflection of the damage caused.  And as I explained  in my provisional decision, given that 
there was no requirement to show recklessness  to be convicted of the offences, Im not 
persuaded that this either supports or undermines whether L was reckless.  
So, in all, having considered the points carefully,  Ive not changed  my mind  that L failed to 
meet the general condition to take all reasonable precautions to  comply with all statutory 
obligations and regulations imposed by any authority. It follows  that I think  UKI fairly turned 
down Ls claim. The breach does appear to be materially  connected  to the circumstances of 
the claim,  so prejudiced UKIs position  as indemnity  insurer, including  with regard to 
claimants who may have  statutory third-party rights against  such insurers.  
Ref: DRN86376495my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision of 21 January 2020, I 
dont uphold Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8637649