K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Birmingham Midshires, now part of Bank of Scotland plc, mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside their mortgage.
 
background
In March 1993, Mr and Mrs M applied for a mortgage, which began in August.  At the same  
time, they applied for a PPI policy,  called  mortgage repayment cover. The PPI covered Mr 
M, and would  help meet Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  repayments if Mr M couldnt work through  
accident, sickness or unemployment for more than 60 days,  for up to 12 months. 
Mr and Mrs M say the policy was mis-sold.
At first, Bank  of Scotland plc said it didnt think  it had sold Mr and Mrs M PPI alongside their 
mortgage. But after Mr and Mrs M provided  us with additional information, it agreed  that it 
had sold them PPI. It didnt think the policy was mis-sold.  It did, however, offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the policy  but not everything  Mr and Mrs M paid for it.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think  the policy was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with the adjudicator. The complaint has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about the mis-sale of PPI on our website.  Ive 
taken that into account  when considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Where theres a disagreement about  what happened, I need  to decide whats  most likely 
based on the information Ive seen.
Ive first considered whether Mr and Mrs M knew they were buying  a PPI policy and agreed 
to buy it.
Because of the time thats passed,  Bank  of Scotland  no longer has a copy of the original 
application form for the PPI  and at first it wasnt able to say whether Mr and Mrs M had in 
fact bought a policy  at all. But it does have a copy of the mortgage application, and 
Mr and Mrs M have  also provided some papers theyve kept that refer to the mortgage and 
PPI.
I dont think its surprising  that Bank of Scotland cant now provide the PPI application or the 
policy number. The mortgage the policy was attached to began in 1993, 27 years  ago. Mr 
and Mrs M say they cancelled the policy in 2002, 18 years ago. I dont expect Bank of 
Scotland to keep  this information  indefinitely. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel strongly that the 
lack of this information means the policy must have been mis-sold. But it wouldnt be fair to 
uphold the complaint just because, after all these years,  Bank of Scotland  cant  say exactly 
what happened. Im satisfied that I instead  need to decide whats  most likely to have 
happened, given the other  information that is available.
Ref: DRN85992992Ive first considered the mortgage application  form. I see this included  a separate  box for 
Mr and Mrs M to complete if they wanted  to buy the PPI.
This states:
Mortgage Repayment  Cover will provide benefits towards  your mortgage 
repayments if you are off work through accident,  sickness or involuntary 
unemployment for more  than 60 days.  You can only take it out when you apply for a 
mortgage. For your peace of mind, we suggest you choose this low cost protection.  If 
you want to take out the Mortgage Repayment Cover, you will need to fill in Section 
J. 
Beneath this were  two boxes Mr and Mrs M could complete  to say if they wanted PPI. The 
box labelled Yes is ticked. A separate box, labelled No is not ticked.
Mr and Mrs M say they felt pressured  into buying  the policy. They  say the interview was very 
hostile and that it was made clear that if they didnt agree  to the PPI then they wouldnt be 
able to get the mortgage. But having thought about  this alongside everything else 
Mr and Mrs M have  said, Im not satisfied they took out the policy  because  of pressure. 
Given how the choice  was set out on the paperwork I think its more likely they knew they 
had a choice to buy the policy  and chose to buy it. Im also mindful  that Mr and Mrs M have 
told us that they had to contact the business  in November, to question  why they werent  
being charged for the PPI. I dont think theyd have done this if they hadnt  wanted the policy. 
I also recognise that these events  happened  a very long time ago now  and memory can be 
unreliable. Given  the time thats passed, Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs M felt pressured 
into buying the policy based  just on what theyve said.
Mr M says he doesnt think,  given  the limited information available, that a PPI policy was 
ever put in place.  But I note that Mr M has also sent us a letter he received  while  the policy  
was active, explaining that the underwriter of the product  had changed and that the premium  
was increasing to reflect changes to insurance  premium tax. I also note that Mr M 
nevertheless agrees  hes been charged  for the policy. Mr and Mrs M say they cancelled  the 
policy. And so I think its more likely than not that the policy  was in place. 
Bank of Scotland says its sales  process at the time would have involved an advisor  
recommending the policy  to Mr and Mrs M. So it had to make sure the policy was right for 
them.
Looking at their circumstances at the time,  I think it was. I think Mr M was eligible  for the 
cover. He wasnt affected by the main  things the policy  didnt cover   such  as the main  
exclusions and limitations of the cover. He appears to have wanted this kind of cover  and 
given the policy covered  a mortgage, and so his home was at risk if he couldnt  meet  the 
regular monthly mortgage  repayment, I can see it would have been useful to him if anything 
went wrong. I note in particular that Mr M says he received  only half pay after six months  of 
sickness  the policy  would pay benefits for longer. The policy  also appears to have been 
affordable to them.
The policy only covered  Mr M. Mr and Mrs M have questioned this, as they were both 
responsible for making the payments  towards the mortgage. But looking at the information 
Ref: DRN85992993from when Mr and Mrs M arranged  the mortgage, I note that Mr M earned more  than Mrs M 
 so I think this reflected  their circumstances at the time.
For similar reasons,  while  I cant be sure Bank  of Scotland explained what the policy covered 
as clearly as it should have done,  Im not persuaded this would have put Mr and Mrs M off 
buying the policy. The mortgage  illustration  suggests that Mr and Mrs M were told what the 
policy cost. The benefit if Mr M claimed on the policy was sufficient to cover  the monthly 
mortgage repayment. And Mr and Mrs M dont appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover.
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs M. But Bank of Scotland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M 
because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Bank  of 
Scotland didnt  tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank of Scotland  should  also pay back to Mr 
and Mrs M any extra  interest they paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra  they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bank  of 
Scotland should also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on 
payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt need  to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does need  to pay Mr and Mrs M the commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should now pay this to Mr and Mrs M if it 
hasnt already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2021.
Rebecca Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8599299