K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a new credit card in 2002. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already told Mr M that they didnt think  his mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  However, Halifax has since offered to give back  to Mr M some of the cost 
of the PPI related to the commission it received. 
Mr M still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place and has asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms mis-sale  complaint.
Weve seen a few similar cases  to this and as a consequence, we now know  quite  a bit 
about how the sales processes normally worked  and the type of paperwork that was used 
during the course of these  particular  sales. We know, for example, that consumers usually  
spoke with a Halifax adviser to discuss  their requirements and as a result of that discussion 
a credit agreement was then drawn up for the consumer to check and sign.
We were sent an actual copy of Mr Ms agreement  and I can see a box about PPI was 
selected on the form. We know the sale was carried out in a branch,  so I think  the PPI 
being chosen in this way wouldve  been done as a result of the conversation Ive mentioned 
above. Mr M also signed the agreement,  so I think this shows  he asked for the cover.  
So whilst I accept this is all quite a long time ago now, I think  its more  likely Halifax  properly 
got Mr Ms consent for the PPI and he would have been able to see he had a choice. I also 
note from his monthly credit card statements that he was being  charged for credit card 
repayment insurance.
Halifax concedes this was probably an advised sale. This means it had a duty to make  sure 
the PPI was suitable for Mr M. I think it was.
This is because I think Mr M was eligible for the PPI and I dont think that hed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly cost of 
the policy was 78p per £100 of the outstanding  balance which  was comparable with similar 
policies I know were  sold around that time.  Ive got no evidence to suggest this was 
unaffordable for Mr M. 
Mr M says he got sick pay with his job and I agree  this would have been relatively good. But 
Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt  of any use. In the event of a 
successful claim  for example, the PPI could have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit  card 
Ref: DRN86125532balance for up to a year.  And having  very carefully  considered everything Mr M has told us, 
overall I think the policy was suitable for him.
Halifax also had a duty to make  sure the information it provided was clear enough for Mr M 
to make an informed decision.  I obviously cant say he was told everything he should  have 
been told. But as Ive said, I think there would have been a discussion about  the policy and 
how it worked. 
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading  as 
Halifax, doesnt need to refund everything  Mr M paid for it. But its offered to give him back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Bank  of Scotland  Plc 
will make arrangements  to pay Mr M now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt already 
done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about the mis-sale. I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything more  than the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8612553