K820x#14Complaint
Mr H says Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt  do enough  to help when he fell victim  to a banking  
payment scam. He says Clydesdale should  also have done more  to prevent the payment 
going through.
Background
On 1 November  2018, Mr H made a payment of £819 from his Clydesdale  current account 
via telephone banking. He did so on the instruction of who he believed was a friend he was 
paying regarding  a holiday.  
Mr H subsequently  discovered hed made the payment  to a scammer whod impersonated 
the friend and sent him an email  containing the scammers own account details. Mr H 
contacted Clydesdale on 3 November 2018 to tell it what had happened,  and to see if there  
was anything it could  do to help. Clydesdale contacted  the scammers bank on 5 November 
2018 to see if any of Mr Hs money  could  be recovered but, unfortunately, no funds 
remained.
Mr H was unhappy with how Clydesdale handled things, so he complained.  Clydesdale said 
it couldnt be held responsible for the money hed lost since hed willingly made the payment. 
It said it didnt check that the name Mr H gave matched the name of the beneficiary account  
holder as it wasnt required to.
Still unhappy with Clydesdales response,  Mr H complained  to us. Our adjudicator looked at 
what had happened  and didnt recommend the complaint  be upheld. They felt Clydesdale  
hadnt acted unfairly  by allowing the payment to be made and didnt  think  it should have 
done more to help him recover his money.  
Mr H disagreed saying,  among other  things, Clydesdales security  processes were 
inadequate and that this was supported  by the subsequent introduction  of the requirement 
for banks  to check account names along with other details when processing faster 
payments. The complaint  was passed  to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Mr H has asked a number  of general questions about banking law and practice but I dont 
consider it necessary for me to answer  them in deciding this complaint. Having said that, I 
think it may be helpful if I briefly set out the wider position.
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN89446512But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Clydesdale are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mr H when he made  a payment of £819 to a new payee  in November 2018, or whether 
it should have  done more  than it did.
But I dont think the payment  was particularly suspicious or unusual  enough  to say 
Clydesdale ought  to have had concerns that Mr H was being scammed.  The amount Mr H 
paid made  wasnt, in itself, suspicious when compared with the general activity  on his 
account and it was verified by him via Clydesdales telephone banking service.  Overall, I 
dont think the payment  was sufficiently suspicious for me to conclude  Clydesdale ought to 
have identified that it may be potentially fraudulent.
Regarding Mr Hs point  that the beneficiary account holder and the payee name he gave 
didnt match,  Clydesdale wasnt  required to check those details at the time. As the account  
terms and conditions said about making payments:
Ref: DRN89446513You must ensure that the account  number and sort code  of the account you instruct 
us to pay funds  to are correct. Although  we may ask for the account name which  we 
sometimes confirm as part of our security checks,  this will not form part of the 
payment instruction as we do not usually check that the names matches  the account 
name linked to the account number and sort code. 
Mr H suggests Clydesdale broke the law by not checking them, but I dont  consider  that it did 
as there  was no law requiring it to do so at the time. 
The Confirmation of Payee (CoP) scheme was originally announced in October 2018  so 
just before Mr H made the relevant payment  but wasnt due to come into force for the UKs 
largest banking  groups  (which dont include Clydesdale) until July 2019. The deadline for 
implementing the scheme was then delayed until March and, finally,  June 2020. Given that 
the deadline for certain banks  but not Clydesdale  joining wasnt  until more than 18 
months after Mr H made his payment, and that the scheme doesnt apply retrospectively, I 
dont believe  it would  be fair for me to find that Clydesdale should have done more  in this 
regard.
Even if Clydesdale had flagged the payment with Mr H, Im not persuaded he wouldnt still 
have authorised it. I say that because of the sophisticated nature of the scam and the fact 
that he clearly genuinely  believed he was acting on the instruction of his friend  as to where 
to make the payment.
So, in the circumstances, I dont think Clydesdale did anything wrong by following the 
instructions Mr H gave and sending the money.
When Mr H told Clydesdale that it had been scammed,  Clydesdale contacted the scammers 
bank two days later to see if any of Mr Hs money was still in the receiving account and could 
be recovered. Unfortunately,  the beneficiary  bank  confirmed all of Mr Hs money had gone. 
Its not unusual  in scams like this for the scammers  to withdraw  funds quickly. 
Although I think Clydesdale could have contacted the beneficiary bank sooner than it did, I 
dont believe  Mr H lost out as a result. I say that because I can see from the account history  
provided by the beneficiary bank that Mr Hs money  was withdrawn by the scammer on the 
same day he made the payment. 
Any further investigation into what happened  to the money after it left the scammers account 
wasnt the responsibility of Clydesdale, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to that 
information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve  the money was all 
Clydesdale could do to help Mr H at that stage.  
Its unfortunate that Mr H has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience  will have 
been hugely upsetting  for him. But, in the circumstances, I dont think  I can fairly say that 
Clydesdale caused  him to lose his money. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Clydesdale  
to compensate Mr H for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN89446514Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8944651