K820x#14complaint
Mr Vs complaint is about a managed trading account he held, under a corporate  name,  with 
ITI Capital Limited  (formerly  known as FXCM  and referred to as FXCM in this decision). Both 
parties are legally represented.  In the main,  Mr Vs representative alleges, on his behalf, the 
following:
Between 2013 and 2014 FXCM  inappropriately promoted to Mr V its Protected Index 
Options Strategy (also known as PIOPT) service.
In 2014 FXCMs recommendation, to Mr V, of a PIOPT  based  account was 
unsuitable because  it was not a low risk strategy/service and it lacked the liquidity 
necessary to allow an exit. FXCM  also, or initially, did not assess/properly assess 
suitability of the strategy/service/account for Mr V.
FXCM  did not provide  the service  in the account  that it was supposed  to provide.
FXCM  committed contractual and regulatory breaches in the matters  alleged above.
FXCM  reneged on a guarantee  to restore Mr Vs capital regardless of trading losses. 
Mr V invested a total initial  capital of around the equivalent of £50,000 (around 
£40,000 in 2014  and then £10,000 in 2015) and recovered only £4,200 in March 
2016 when the account was closed. During the course of trading in the account, profit 
was made and lost. FXCM should  pay compensation to Mr V in the form of either  the 
profits lost during trading or, based  on the guarantee, the balance  (around £45,000) 
required to restore his initial  capital.
background
FXCM disputes the complaint. In the main, its position is as follows:
Mr V was introduced  to FXCM by an introducing broker who had no role in FXCM  
and for whom FXCM had no responsibility. Mr Vs company  was its client and 
account holder   not Mr V himself  so it queried  whether  (or not) the complaint had 
been made by an eligible complainant.
Specific documentary evidence shows that the circumstances in 2014, relevant to 
suitability of the strategy/account, were sufficiently assessed, that Mr V was given  
sufficient information about the PIOPT  service  alongside information  about its terms 
and conditions for the account and that he was given sufficient risk warnings.
FXCM  did not unlawfully compromise Mr Vs best interests in the venture and it did 
not encourage him to retain the strategy/account against his will, he was able to 
withdraw from and close the account at any point, but he chose not to.
Mr V was not given  a guarantee to restore his capital. The evidence he relies upon is 
an email dated after his account  was closed and sent by his broker  after the broker 
had left FXCM. The email was not binding on FXCM.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he said:
Evidence supports  the conclusion that the corporate entity account holder was/is  a 
micro enterprise, is an eligible complainant and, as the corporate  entitys sole owner  
and representative,  Mr V is eligible to pursue to the complaint.
Evidence does not support the assertion that FXCM guaranteed  to restore Mr Vs 
initial capital. There were  also no guarantees in the PIOPT  strategy/service. There is 
a lack of formal documentation about the assessment of suitability of the strategy for 
Mr V and  there are matters which are unaccounted for  but, overall/on 
Ref: DRN88709102balance, these do not mean the strategy  was unsuitable for Mr V. Sufficient 
information about the strategy and its risks was given and Mr Vs overall  profile did 
not mismatch the venture.
There appears to have been  no unreasonable obstruction to Mr Vs ability  to 
withdraw from the account.
Mr Vs representative disagreed with this outcome. It argued that the adjudicator  did not 
address the specific  contractual and regulatory aspects within  the complaint; that his 
conclusions were either erroneous or in conflict with evidence; and that his conclusion on the 
guarantee argument was astonishing as there is evidence  to support the argument  
contrary to what the adjudicator said. The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Jurisdiction
I have considered FXCMs query about  Mr V being  (or not being) an eligible complainant.  I 
have considered available evidence related to the matter and my conclusions are that the 
corporate entity that was used to open  Mr Vs account was/is a micro enterprise,  it was/is 
wholly owned by him, it was/is not a typical going  concern because it existed only for the 
purpose of ownership/holding of Mr Vs investments and he is eligible to pursue the 
complaint on behalf of what  is his own micro enterprise entity.
Core Arguments
Mr Vs complaint is distinct,  but it is worth  noting that his complaint was presented  to this 
service alongside  a number of other complaints about the same PIOPT strategy, about 
broadly the same promotion of the strategy around  roughly the same  time and about 
promotion of the strategy to what seems to have been a specific cluster of investors  based  
on introductions from one to another. The complaints  have had the same representative. 
I have already determined one of the other complaints. Each complainant  had individual 
circumstances but their representative appears to have presented a set of core arguments 
that have been reflected in each  complaint.  I consider  that the conclusions I reached, in the 
other complaint, about some of its core arguments  applies  to Mr Vs complaint. I 
repeat/summarise those  conclusions as follows:
The issues (including the alleged breaches) about promotion of the PIOPT  
strategy/service appear to be duplicated by the issues about suitability or unsuitability  
of the PIOPT service for Mr V. It does not appear to be in dispute that use of the 
PIOPT strategy  was recommended as the basis for Mr Vs managed account. It 
follows that whether  (or not) it was appropriately promoted, the fact remains that it 
was also subsequently recommended by FXCM. The compensation that Mr V seeks  
arises from the assertion that the PIOPT  was an unsuitable investment/strategy 
recommendation, so (un)suitability  appears  to be the main  issue.  To put it another  
way, even if Mr V can show that FXCMs  promotion of the strategy was flawed or 
unlawful, the loss he claims for arose  from recommendation and use of the strategy 
so the pursuit  for compensation depends wholly  or mainly  on showing that the 
recommendation and use of the strategy was unsuitable.
Ref: DRN88709103It is beyond this services remit to consider punitive awards based on a firm allegedly  
breaching its regulatory obligations.  Our remit, in the context of investment cases, is 
to consider the merits (or otherwise) of compensating a complainant  for a financial 
loss that has been  incurred from an investment(s). I have noted the references made 
by Mr Vs representative to the regulatory  principles and rules. Those that relate to 
FXCMs duty to make suitable recommendations will of course  be relevant to my 
consideration of the complaint. However, it is arguable  that those that go beyond  the 
issue of (un)suitability also go beyond the considerations that are required in order  to 
determine Mr Vs claim for compensation.
The other issue arising from Mr Vs complaint and distinct  from the matter of 
(un)suitability, is his assertion that he did not receive  the type of service that he ought 
to have received  from the account.  Our approach for complaints about  alleged failed 
services is to consider  whether (or not) there is merit in the complaint and, if so, to 
consider an order  for a refund  of the charges or fees incurred by the complainant  for 
the relevant service.  The idea is that the complainant should be entitled  to a refund  of 
all such relevant fees given that the service,  as promised/contracted, was not 
delivered. In Mr Vs case no management or performance related fees appear  to 
have been applied to his account.  This is re-affirmed by the literature for the PIOPT 
strategy/service which confirms  that no such fees will apply and by the fact that Mr V 
has not claimed for a refund of any fees. It follows that any issue  about  service lacks 
a basis for potential additional  compensation to Mr V. 
Mr Vs representative presented additional claims related to damages  under section 
138D(2) of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA), alleged negligent 
misstatement, alleged  professional  negligence, alleged  breach  of fiduciary duty and 
alleged fraudulent and/or negligent misrepresentation. The first additional claim, 
related to section  138D(2) of FSMA, is about a firm allegedly breaching a regulatory  
rule and causing a loss to a client. This duplicates Mr Vs claim for compensation for 
loss arising from FXCMs allegedly unsuitable PIOPT strategy. I consider that the 
other additional claims might or might not lend themselves to the consideration of the 
issue of alleged unsuitability, but no separate financial  loss (or claim for 
compensation) has been presented in relation to them. The crux of the complaint 
remains Mr Vs pursuit for compensation for loss arising  from the allegedly unsuitable  
PIOPT strategy.
Suitability
Mr Vs representative has quoted, accurately,  the regulators  Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) for this issue. It cites COBS 9 which, in straightforward terms, means 
that FXCM was required to know enough  about Mr Vs investor  profile in order  to ensure that 
the PIOPT strategy was suitable for him.
The level of available record  about  FXCMs assessment of suitability in Mr Vs case could be 
better. FXCM has given  reasons  why the documentation that is available  is not as 
comprehensive as we would consider it could have been. I am not persuaded that it is 
necessary to determine the merits of its explanation, the fact remains that this service 
appears to have been given the documentation  that is available  and I have not seen 
evidence to suggest that more is available than we have been given. The question  that 
arises is whether (or not) there is enough  to consider the suitability (or otherwise)  of the 
Ref: DRN88709104PIOPT strategy  for Mr V. Overall and on balance, I am persuaded that there is enough  
evidence in this respect.  I have considered  the following:
Mr V held an interest in the strategy  even before it was promoted to him. Email 
evidence shows that he did not know what it entailed but his interest arose  when the 
director of his micro enterprise entity  introduced him to an introducing broker  (IB) and 
to FXCM   the IB was independent  of FXCM.  Mr V followed up the introduction  with a 
request, to FXCM, for more information and eventually the PIOPT based  account 
was recommended to him and was managed by FXCM on a discretionary  and then 
advisory basis. I have mentioned this background because it is noteworthy  that the 
strategy was something Mr V wanted  to be involved  in from the outset and, it 
appears, before any contact with FXCM. Undoubtedly, FXCM still had the 
responsibility to ensure  that the strategy was suitable for him and his circumstances, 
but with the initial interest that he had in it FXCMs assessment  would mainly  (and 
reasonably) have  related to his understanding of the PIOPT strategy, his attitude 
towards risk (ATR),  affordability and his capacity for loss. It is arguable that his 
interest in the strategy made his objective implicit  that is, to make  money  from the 
strategy  and I do not consider  that other or wider aspects of suitability (such  the 
consideration of asset class(es) or diversification,  for example) would have been as 
relevant as they could have been in a case with different circumstances.
No guarantees  were  given with the PIOPT  strategy or account. FXCM says 
information about the strategy, about  the account and about  risks (risk warnings) can 
be found in the introducing broker disclosure form (which Mr V signed), in the PIOPT 
presentation (which  he received),  in the PIOPT data sheet (which he also received) 
and in FXCMs terms of business  for the account. I agree and, overall, I consider that 
the body of information that was made available to Mr V about the strategy, the 
account and the associated risks was sufficient. In terms of risks, I can understand 
his representatives  view that the strategys  presentation  focused  on its selling points, 
but the presentation did not give guarantees and Mr V had enough information about 
the risks in the venture (including within a risk warning/disclaimer section in the 
presentation document) to give him a balanced  view on those selling points. 
In 2014, Mr V could  reasonably and broadly be described as a high net worth 
investor (around $850,000 net worth)  with substantial liquid assets (around 
$450,000). In terms of affordability,  I do not consider  that Mr V could not afford  the 
allocation of around £50,000 (around $70,000 at the time) from his liquid assets to 
the PIOPT based account. I consider that this point also applies to his capacity for 
loss at the time. For the sake of clarity,  I do not suggest that the loss of the 
equivalent of £50,000 would have  been inconsequential for Mr V. The point is that he 
had capacity, within his overall  wealth and especially in his liquid wealth, to absorb 
such a loss. The introducing broker disclosure form mentioned  above,  which  Mr V 
signed, gave notice that he should  only deposit  funds he could afford  to lose.
The lack of suitability  assessment documentation has not helped my consideration of 
what Mr Vs ATR was in 2014   but, given wider  available evidence,  I am persuaded 
that I have enough  information  to draw a conclusion in this respect. The assessment 
would (or should) have taken place  based on the corporate entity that Mr V used for 
the account (plus  his private capacity alongside that). I have seen  evidence  of FXCM 
requesting additional  information  from Mr V  which  he appears to have provided   
specifically because  the account  was being set up for a corporate  entity.  A 
questionnaire Mr V completed and returned  to FXCM made it clear  that the entity 
Ref: DRN88709105was wholly  owned  by him, that its principal activity  was Consultancy services  and 
private investments  and that the money  to be used for investment was his/his  
companys money.  In addition, Mr V wrote  to FXCM on 22 October 2014, as part of 
the account opening process, and said the corporate entity  provides  consultancy 
services on a range of sectors  Separately,  it is intended to be used as a vehicle to 
invest in specific and specialised  investment  opportunities for the benefit of its 
shareholder One of these  opportunities is the options strategy   which is the primary 
purpose of opening this account. The ideal would  have been record  of a 
straightforward and reasonably detailed ATR assessment but, in its absence, I am 
persuaded that the notion of a hybrid corporate/private investor with a pre-
determined objective  to invest in specialised investment opportunities like the 
PIOPT strategy   as opposed  to standard or mainstream investments  suggests a 
high ATR more than it suggests a balanced  or low ATR. Mr V subsequently affirmed 
a high ATR within emails  in 2016 which show that even after he had experienced lost 
profits and lost almost  all of his capital, and even  after he had closed his FXCM 
account on seemingly  bad terms, his interest  in the strategy remained and he was in 
discussions about pursuing that interest in a new fund that was to be set up. Overall,  
I consider that Mr V/his corporate entity had the ATR to match the PIOPT strategy.
 
Mr Vs representative argues that the word protected within  the strategys name  
was misleading. I consider that the risk warnings and absence of a guarantee made it 
reasonably clear that the strategy was not risk free; I have  not seen evidence of the 
word protected being defined, at the time, in relation to Mr Vs capital; the word 
protected appears to have  related to the strategys  approach in which loss exposure  
was predetermined  in order  to know the maximum potential loss in a trade at the 
outset; as I mentioned  above, Mr V was given notice that he should  deposit only 
money he could afford to lose so this, amongst the other risk notices, would have  
informed him that his capital was not protected.
In terms of Mr Vs ability to withdraw or exit from the account,  I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusion that Mr V does not appear  to have been unreasonably 
hindered in this respect. In addition, the strategy does not appear to have had a 
withdrawal or exit penalty. 
Overall and on balance,  I am persuaded that that the strategy/account was not unsuitable  for 
Mr V and I also do not consider that FXCM  acted against his best interests in this respect.
Guarantee
I consider the argument about  a guarantee from FXCM to restore  Mr Vs capital to be 
somewhat misguided,  for the following  reasons:
The account was opened around October 2014 and closed in March  2016. There  
appears to be no evidence from the time the account was opened, or preceding the 
opening of the account, that supports the argument about a guarantee. In contrast, 
and as mentioned  above, there  is a body of evidence showing that Mr V was made 
aware of the risks in the venture and made  aware that his capital could be lost. 
Evidence (in the form of emails) which Mr V might rely upon in support of his 
argument appears to arise only in 2016.  However, none of the emails  feature FXCM. 
There is an exchange of emails in January 2016 only between IB and Mr V, and 
FXCM does  not even  appear to have been copied into the emails. The exchange 
Ref: DRN88709106shows the IB telling  Mr V that the capital he lost in his FXCM account could/would be 
recovered in a new fund (based on the same or similar PIOPT strategy) that the IB 
and Mr Vs FXCM broker was planning to set up  after the FXCM brokers  planned 
departure from FXCM and after Mr V closed his FXCM  account. The point is that, at 
best, this exchange suggests perhaps  a personal promise (not necessarily a 
guarantee) from the IB to Mr V that was defined outside of FXCM and unrelated  to 
FXCM. It was not a promise from FXCM  and the IB did not represent FXCM; it was 
dependent on a new fund that was to be set up after the broker left FXCM, so it relied 
upon the brokers departure from FXCM;  it was dependent on Mr V closing his FXCM 
account and moving  to the new fund; in simple terms, the email exchange and its 
contents appear to have  been remote to FXCM.
Reference has also been made, in support of the alleged guarantee, to email 
correspondence in May 2016  which continued into June 2016. I consider  that the 
same conclusion  applies in this respect too. By this time the broker  had left FXCM 
so, even though he features in the correspondence, he did not represent FXCM. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Vs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject  my decision 
before 17 February  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8870910