K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say The Co-operative Bank  Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
The policy covered Mrs W only. It would have  paid Mr and Mrs Ws monthly mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness  or unemployment.  
The unemployment cover  included in the policy was free for the first year.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  he didnt 
think Britannia gave  Mr and Mrs W clear enough  information about the cost and benefits of 
the policy. And he thought that if it had done so, they wouldnt have bought it. This was 
because he didnt think theyd have thought it good value for money, given the benefits  
Mrs W would  have been entitled to from her employer. 
After The Co-operative Bank disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  the adjudicator  
explained that Mr and Mrs W also had savings worth at least 12 months of Mrs Ws salary. 
So, even if Mrs Ws employee benefits werent as high as she remembered, he still thought  
the complaint  should be upheld. The Co-operative Bank still disagreed  with the adjudicators 
view, so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr and Mrs W and to The Co-operative Bank on 23 January 2019. I summarise my findings:
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application form included a section on PPI, with equally 
prominent options to take or decline the cover. The box was ticked to indicate  that 
Mr and Mrs W wished  to take the cover. And Mrs W completed a separate  application for 
the PPI. I thought  Britannia had made Mr and Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional  
and that they chose  to take it.
I thought it was unlikely that Britannia recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. So it 
didnt have to check that the policy was suitable  for them.  But it still had a responsibility 
to give Mr and Mrs W enough information  about the PPI to enable  them  to decide for 
themselves whether  the cover  was right for them,  knowing what  other means theyd have 
had of making their monthly mortgage  repayments  if Mrs W was unable  to work.
I didnt  know whether  Britannia told Mr and Mrs W how much the PPI would cost before 
they agreed to take it out. But Id seen a letter which Britannia sent to them with the 
policy schedule  and document once  the policy was set up. It set out the initial  monthly 
premium of £2.71 clearly. So I thought Mr and Mrs W would have understood how much  
theyd need to pay for the policy. And if theyd decided they didnt want  to go ahead  with 
the cover, they could  have chosen to cancel it.
I accepted that it was possible Britannia didnt point out the main  things the policy didnt 
cover. But based on what theyve told us about  their circumstances at the time, I thought 
it was unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have been affected by any of these.
Ref: DRN81689812I acknowledged that Mr and Mrs W have told us that Mrs W would have been entitled to 
particularly generous  benefits from her employer. Mrs W worked for the police, in a 
civilian role at the time of sale. Mr and Mrs W originally told us shed  have been  entitled 
to at least six months but less than twelve months pay from her employer if shed been 
off sick or if shed  lost her job. They subsequently  told us that shed in fact have  been  
entitled to 12 months  full sick pay. Mrs W says that everyone who worked for the police 
at the time was entitled to this, regardless of their role. 
I didnt  doubt  that Mrs W has given  us her honest recollection. But based  on our 
experience of employee benefits  for civilian support  staff in the police, I thought  it was 
unlikely that Mrs W would have  been entitled to 12 months full pay. And she hadnt been  
able to provide any evidence to support what she says. I didnt think that was surprising,  
considering how long it is since she took out the policy. But having  thought  carefully 
about whats been said,  I couldnt fairly conclude that it was likely that Mrs Ws employee 
benefits were  so generous  as to mean that she didnt need the policy. On balance, 
I thought it was likely that the policy would potentially have paid out for longer than 
Mrs W would  have  received  full sick pay for. Whats  more, it would have paid out in 
addition to any payments she received from her employer, allowing her to use those to 
meet day-to-day expenses.
Id also considered what Mr and Mrs W have  told us about their savings. Theyve 
explained that their new house  cost £50,000 less than theyd sold their old house  for. So 
they say they could  have  used this to cover the mortgage if necessary. But Id borne in 
mind that Mr and Mrs W decided  to take out a mortgage on their new property, even 
though (based on what theyve  told us) their savings  would  have been  more than enough 
to pay the mortgage  off. So I wasnt convinced  that Mr and Mrs W would have wanted to 
use their savings to pay off the mortgage. It seemed more likely  to me that they were 
earmarked for something else. And I thought  Mr and Mrs W chose to take the PPI 
because it provided affordable  cover that would  have covered their mortgage  if Mrs W 
was unable to work,  without having  to use their savings.
Id taken into account Mr and Mrs Ws comments, including what theyve said about 
having felt pressured  into taking the PPI policy. But pressure  is a serious  allegation. 
I wasnt convinced that Mr and Mrs Ws recollection  of the sale is particularly clear   
which I didnt think was surprising, so many years later. And without stronger evidence,  
I couldnt fairly conclude that Mr and Mrs W were  pressured into taking out the PPI. So 
this didnt change  my conclusion.
So I was sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, but based on what Id seen so far, I didnt think  
the complaint  should be upheld.
further submissions
Neither Mr and Mrs W nor Britannia have made any comments  on my provisional decision,  
and the time for doing so has now expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case. Having done  so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings 
I set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN81689813my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8168981