K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that V5 Loans  Limited lent irresponsibly to her. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021 that I summarise below.
Mrs H was given a loan of £1,100 by V5 Loans  in June  2012.  The  loan had to be repaid in 
78 weekly instalments  of around  £42. The total amount payable, including interest,  was just 
over £3,331. I understand loan has been  settled.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that V5 
Loans needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
V5 Loans  needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs H 
irresponsibly. I considered  some key questions in order  to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did V5 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs 
H would  be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If not, what  would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately,  did V5 Loans  make a fair lending decision? 
Did V5 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
V5 Loans  carried  out some checks before it lent to Mrs H. This included asking for details of 
her income and expenditure and acquiring some credit information. It seems that Mrs H was 
self-employed. V5 Loans asked to see evidence of her income and it requested  a bank 
statement. 
Id seen a summary  of the information gathered  by V5 Loans at the time, including  the bank 
statement that Mrs H provided  at the time.
Mrs H took her loan several  years  ago. The information about  what  exactly happened at the 
time is understandably  quite limited. But from what Id seen, I thought the checks that V5 
Loans carried out before lending to Mrs H were reasonable and proportionate, in the 
circumstances. I considered whether V5 Loans  made a fair lending decision, based  on what  
it knew from the information that it had gathered about Mrs Hs financial position.
It seems  that V5 Loans recognised that Mrs Hs income was irregular, and it checked 
invoices, pay slips and testimonials from two clients evidencing past and future work. Mrs H 
declared a net monthly income of around  £1,500 at the time.
The bank statement shows credits paid into her account of around £1,895, from a variety of 
sources. The opening balance on this statement showed Mrs H was overdrawn by £5.04. 
The account  then remained  in credit for the rest of the statement. Overall, I didnt think the 
bank statement showed any signs  of significant financial distress that ought reasonably to 
have been of concern to V5 Loans - such as a large  overdraft, regular gambling,  frequent  
borrowing from other short-term or payday  lenders or regularly returned requests for 
Ref: DRN88377852payment - all of which might have indicated that Mrs H was having  severe  financial 
problems. 
I could see that Mrs H had borrowed from at least one other short-term  lender  with a monthly 
re-payment of £350. Mrs H says she was paying out to another lender as well but there  are 
no obvious payments  to this or any other lender on the bank statement provided to V5 
Loans. 
Mrs H estimated her expenditure on her application  form for other credit commitments as 
£300 monthly. As there  are no other  obvious  payments to creditors on the bank statement 
other than £350  for a loan, I thought it would have  been reasonable for V5 Loans to consider 
that the amount Mrs H had declared  was reasonably  accurate. I didnt think there  was 
sufficient evidence on Mrs Hs bank statement that her borrowing  from other lenders was 
such that it ought reasonably to have led V5 Loans  to decline her loan application.  
The adjudicator thought  V5 Loans  ought to have realised that Mrs H was having difficulty  
repaying her mortgage. I could see from the bank statement that Mrs H made a full payment 
to her mortgage in April but made  only a nominal  payment of £5 to her mortgage  on May.
I thought carefully  about this. The name of the mortgage company appears on the bank 
statement in full when  Mrs H made the full payment in April. But the name only appears  in an 
abbreviated form when  she made the nominal  payment in May. I think V5 Loans  would have  
been aware that the full mortgage payment had been made in April,  but I dont think it would 
reasonably have realised  that the abbreviated name the following month also referred  to Mrs 
Hs mortgage company.  I wouldnt  have expected the lender to query the sum of £5.00 
leaving Mrs Hs account. Overall, I didnt think V5 Loans would have been  aware  from this 
bank statement that Mrs H might  be having  difficulties paying  her mortgage. 
I thought about  whether I could fairly say that V5 Loans ought to have  been  aware  from any 
other information it gathered at the time that Mrs H might  be having difficulties managing her 
money.
Its possible that V5 Loans might have been aware of Mrs Hs other  borrowing  from its other 
checks. From what Id seen, V5 Loans obtained a credit score for Mrs H at the time, but Id 
not seen the detailed results of any credit checks. This isnt surprising, given  the amount of 
time that has passed. Mrs H provided  a copy of her credit file dated from 2015. However, 
generally, the information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit 
file, might be very different to that seen by a lender.  A lender  might only see a portion of the 
credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to 
date. So, this may explain any differences between the information provided  by V5 Loans 
checks and the information Mrs H says it should  have  seen  in 2012.
I can see from the credit report that Mrs H provided that there are a number of defaults 
dating from 2010 and 2011.  If it had seen these defaults, I think  it would have been 
reasonable for V5 Loans to consider them to be historic as they took place some time before  
Mrs H applied for her loan. Mrs H had also made some  late payments but given the type of 
lending involved,  I thought  its reasonable to expect to see some  adverse information in a 
consumers credit history. There  is some  adverse information dated May and June 2012 on 
the report that Mrs H has provided.  But as I explained above, I could not fairly say whether  
or not V5 Loans was aware of this information when  it assessed Mrs Hs application  as it can 
take some  weeks for updated information about creditors  to appear on a credit file. And the 
Ref: DRN88377853information that appears on a consumers credit report can be different from the information 
gathered by credit reference agencies.
I understood why, in her circumstances, Mrs H might have had real difficulty meeting  the 
payments for her loan. But I thought the checks that V5 Loans carried  out were reasonable 
and proportionate. And I couldnt fairly say that I thought its checks ought  to have led V5 
Loans to conclude that the loan was unaffordable  for Mrs H. Or that she was having  such  
serious problems managing her money  that it would be irresponsible to lend to her.
Has V5 Loans  treated  Mrs H unfairly  in any other way?
V5 Loans  says that when  Mrs H experienced difficulties repaying  her loan, rather  than 
repossessing her vehicle,  it reduced the weekly payments  and extended the loan term 
without Mrs H incurring additional interest and charges. V5 Loans  says that Mrs H continued 
with her weekly payments  and took an additional 11 months  interest free before making  the 
final payment.  I am sorry that Mrs H found  herself in financial difficulties, but overall, I 
couldnt say that V5 Loans acted unreasonably or unfairly towards her. 
I said I was not intending  to uphold  the complaint and I invited both parties  to send me any 
further comments or evidence before I made my final decision. V5 Loans says it has nothing 
further to add.
Mrs H disagreed with my provisional  findings and provided a number of detailed comments 
and other  information,  all of which I have read and considered when reaching my final 
decision. 
In summary,  Mrs H says:
 
V5 Loans should have requested a bank statement that started  earlier in April and 
went beyond 1 June.  Had it done so it would  have seen an outgoing payment to 
another lender and V5 Loans would have got a better picture of her financial position.  
The evidence she provided  about her work was not recent,  and she thinks did not 
give sufficient evidence to V5 Loans about  her earnings. The payslips she provided 
at the time together with other  evidence  about  her earnings didnt match  her bank 
statement and showed less income  than she had declared.
She declared her credit commitments as £300  but her bank statement  showed a 
credit payment of £350 and this wasnt questioned by V5 Loans at the time. 
V5 Loans ought to have recognised that the abbreviated  name on her bank 
statement referred to her mortgage  company  and it didnt  request a mortgage 
statement.
Mrs H has also provided a credit  report that a different lender carried  out for a loan 
she took in February 2012. She says this is evidence of what  her credit report would 
have looked like to V5 Loans  in June 2012 and that it shows  badly, managed 
account, serious arrears  and defaults.  Mrs H says that she took the loan with the 
other lender  in February 2012 because her mortgage company were  going to 
repossess her property.  Mrs H says that V5 Loans ought to have seen her financial 
problems when  it carried out its checks and this should have prompted further 
questions. She thinks V5 Loans  ought to be able to provide the credit report it carried  
out at the time,  as the other  lender has been  able to do so. 
Mrs H also says that the loan application  was witnessed by the loan agent  and not an 
independent witness.
Ref: DRN88377854my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mrs H for responding to my provisional decision. If I dont refer to every 
additional point  she has raised it is because I am focussing on those matters which I think  
are material  to reaching an outcome for this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about all of Mrs Hs further comments, but they havent  changed 
my view of this matter overall.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I think the checks that V5 Loans carried  out were  
reasonable and proportionate, and that it made  a fair lending decision,  in the circumstances. 
Mrs H may think the lenders checks should  have gone further such requiring a bank  
statement that covered  a longer period of time. But I think  it is unlikely that a bank statement 
showing transactions up to the date of Mrs Hs loan would have been available at the time 
and I think it was reasonable  and proportionate for V5 Loans to review the statement dated  
from around 12-13 April to 1 June.
V5 Loans  also relied on the invoices,  payslips and testimonials from clients that Mrs H 
provided as reasonable evidence of her earnings. Mrs H suggests that V5 Loans should  
have queried some  of this evidence as it didnt contain her name and address. But I dont 
think V5 Loans  ought reasonably to have assumed that Mrs H might be providing false  or 
inaccurate invoices  or client testimonials. I think it was reasonable for V5 Loans  to accept 
these documents  at face value. Mrs H says V5 Loans ought not to have relied on evidence 
of her earnings which could not be cross  referenced  with the bank statement she provided. 
And they did not show as much income  as she had declared on her application form. There 
may have  been  some  discrepancies  in the information Mrs H provided  about her earnings 
and expenditure,  but on balance, I think it was reasonable for V5 Loans to conclude overall 
that Mrs H would be able to repay her loan sustainably  and it was reasonable for it to rely 
on the evidence  that Mrs H had provided about  her income, including  a bank statement, the 
application form, invoices,  payslips and client testimonials.
As I previously explained, I think V5 Loans would have been aware that Mrs H had made the 
full mortgage payment  in April, but I dont think it would reasonably have realised that the 
abbreviated name the following month also referred  to Mrs Hs mortgage  company and that 
she had only paid £5.00 that month.  I accept that Mrs H disagrees but overall,  I dont think 
its likely  that this would have been  picked  up in reasonable and proportionate checks. Mrs H 
says she was not asked to provide  a rent or mortgage statement, but I dont think it would 
necessarily have been proportionate to request this, in the circumstances of this particular 
loan. 
Mrs H has now provided a credit  report in relation to a loan she took several months prior to 
her loan with V5 Loans. But different lenders carry out different levels  of credit checks  and I 
cant fairly say that V5 Loans would have seen all the information gathered by a different 
lender, at a different time, in its own checks.  As I explained in my provisional decision, I think 
it would  have been reasonable for V5 Loans to consider  some  defaults it might have seen to 
be historic and it would have been reasonable to see some adverse information in a 
consumers credit history. Overall, I cant fairly  say that V5 Loans  made  an unfair lending 
decision based on credit  information gathered by a different lender, at a different time. I 
Ref: DRN88377855understand why Mrs H is disappointed that V5 Loans has not been able to provide more 
information when  the other lender has been  able to do so. But V5 Loans lent to Mrs H in 
2012 and I dont think its unreasonable that the information it gathered  at the time might now 
be incomplete. I also dont  think the fact that Mrs Hs application was witnessed  by the loan 
agent means that V5 Loans lent to her irresponsibly.
I have thought about everything that Mrs H has told us. I accept that after all this time,  the 
information available about what exactly happened  is inevitably limited.  I recognise that Mrs 
H feels very strongly about  her complaint and I would like to reassure her that I have read 
and considered everything  that both she and V5 Loans has provided about  this matter. But 
Ive not seen sufficient evidence  for me to fairly say that V5 Loans ought reasonably to have 
been alerted that Mrs H might be experiencing significant financial difficulties or that it ought 
reasonably to have  declined  to lend to her. As I havent received anything which changes my 
mind about  this matter,  I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  and I 
do not uphold  the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint or make  any award against V5 
Loans Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8837785