K821x#15complaint
Miss T is unhappy with the way that Ocaso  SA, Compania de Seguros  y Reaseguros  dealt 
with her claim for water  damage to her home.  Most communications  were  with the loss 
adjusters, though for convenience Ill refer to Ocaso  throughout.
background
In March 2018 Miss T suffered considerable damage to her home  when a frozen  pipe burst. 
The leak was repaired and she made a claim to Ocaso. Because of the extensive damage, 
Miss T had to move  out, staying at first with friends and then moving into alternative 
accommodation arranged  through  Ocaso.  Strip out was carried out in April 2018 and then 
drying works  commenced and were completed  by July 2018.  Miss T wanted  her own 
contractors to carry out the repair work  and she was asked to supply a quote. Unfortunately 
due to bereavements in her family  she wasnt able to do this until October  2018.  However  
the quote didnt include all the repairs set out in the schedule of works.  It also included a 
quote for laminate in the hallway, which Ocaso said wasnt included as there  was previously 
carpet there.  Miss T was asked to submit a new quote.
Miss T wasnt  able to respond  until February 2019. In July 2019 the quote for the laminate 
was accepted as the carpet  had been glued down. Mrs T wasnt  able to supply a revised  
quote until October 2019. Her contractors started  work in January 2020, which I believe have 
been completed now.
Miss Ts complaint was made  to us in March 2019.  She was concerned  about delays in 
receiving rental payments  and council tax and other  payments.  She was still owed,  she 
believed, back payments for council tax and rent she had paid to her friend at the start of the 
claim. She was also concerned that her property had been left in a damaged  state for too 
long and with the lack of communication from Ocaso and its loss adjusters. She said she 
had been suffering mentally because of it. At that stage she was also concerned  she would 
have to move out of her alternative accommodation whilst her own property was still 
uninhabitable. She had also maxed  out her credit card in paying council tax payments 
because of the delays in receiving payments.
On review Ocaso accepted there  had been some poor service and offered a payment of 
£100 to Miss T. 
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Ocaso  had been  responsible  for some  
delays and a lack of communication with Miss T. She also found that it had delayed  in 
paying her payments when they were  due. She did find however that a lot of the delays in 
starting the repairs werent  Ocasos fault. She proposed that it pay compensation of £600. 
With reference to the outstanding payments she proposed that Ocaso pay any outstanding 
council tax bills and pay simple interest of 8% per year on them.  She further said that as 
Miss T said she paid some council tax bills on her credit card and was charged interest 
because Ocaso  delayed in paying those back, it should pay the interest incurred.
Ocaso accepted the proposed compensation, but objected to paying interest on outstanding 
council tax bills, as it hadnt received any invoices. It further  objected  to paying credit  card 
interest.
Miss T accepted the investigators view.
Ref: DRN85147822The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This matter has proved  difficult  to investigate, not least because Miss T referred the matter  
to this service when the claim  was still ongoing. I can understand why she did that but as our 
function is to resolve complaints rather than handle  a claim, I have to decide where the cut-
off point is. I think that was in January  2020.  Ocaso  has seen our investigators view and 
was able to comment  on it. But issues over alternative accommodation being extended while 
our investigator was considering the matter  and payments to her builder cant  be dealt with 
here. If Miss T has a complaint about  these or any other new issues, she will have to raise  
them with Ocaso  first.
delays
The file notes are a bit sketchy but it appears  that there was an initial  delay in getting the 
work under way which was Ocasos fault. It does  appear that after that Ms O was 
uncontactable for several months due to family bereavements. She submitted her first quote 
in October 2018.  But it took a year before she was able to submit her revised quote. Im not 
sure of the reason for that. I know she was uncontactable  at times, but she did refer the 
matter to us in Match 2019  when  she was clearly concerned that no work was getting under 
way. The file doesnt set out what efforts were made  by the loss adjusters or Ocaso to get in 
touch with her and explain the work couldnt  start until she got her up-to-date quote. Ive 
noted that it didnt get back to her regarding  the carpet/laminate from February  to July 2019. 
I understand it was waiting for the up-to-date  quote which wasnt received until October  
2019.
I think Ocaso was responsible for some  delays but the majority of the delays were  a result of 
waiting for Miss T to submit her quotes.
fail to communicate/ delays in making payments
As Ive said if Ms T felt she had to contact  this service in March 2019 it must  have  been  at 
least in part due to the long delay  in getting the repairs under way. And if that was because  
Ocaso was waiting for a quote I dont  think it made  that clear to her. She refers to having  to 
continually chase up Ocaso.
Miss T also had to chase  up Ocaso  over payments which  were  often late and which added 
to her anxiety and concern. I think thats because  when payments were requested, as the 
total of the claim  was beyond the loss adjusters  delegated authority, they had to refer each 
request back to Ocaso. There were clear delays in paying council tax payments.
As to the outstanding payments, Ms T has shown us a spreadsheet of the council tax bills 
she believes  she is owed, for the alternative accommodation. Ocaso says that that it hasnt 
been sent the invoices  for these.  Conversely Ms O says she has provided them a number of 
times. Clearly Ocaso did delay in making some  payments. And I cant  see, if it was missing  
the invoices, that it did much chasing  up. Ocaso should pay the outstanding  council tax 
payments and pay interest from the dates they were due until repayment.  I understand these 
were from October 2018 until March  2020.  I know two payments go beyond January 2020,  
Ref: DRN85147823but as its admitted that council tax is owed I dont see the problem with that. If Ocaso 
asserts it has already  paid any of these payments it should produce proof of this.
As to credit card interest, Miss T has included this on her spreadsheet. I think  it reasonable 
that Ocaso should pay this but Im afraid  that for this Miss T will have  to produce the 
statements to Ocaso, so that it can calculate how much of it related to council tax bills. I 
understand that this relates to council tax she paid which  Osco  reimbursed late. She cant 
receive both credit card interest and the standard 8% so if theres  an overlap then Ocaso 
should pay the credit card interest rather than the standard  interest.
With regard to the outstanding rent Ms O says she paid to her friend, I can see that this was 
aired several  times  with Ocaso  and it ignored that issue. But Ms O says she doesnt  have  
any proof that she paid it nor can she show us proof  of the arrangement. In those 
circumstances I wont ask Ocaso  to make  any payment in that respect.
compensation
Overall the claim has caused Miss T a lot of anxiety and she has mental health issues.  A lot 
of that was probably due to her being  out of her property for so long, And as Ive said Ocaso 
isnt largely responsible for that. And I have  noted  that it continued to pay for her alternative  
accommodation right up until she moved  back in. 
Miss T was caused distress over financial issues and she had to do a lot of chasing around 
to get paid. She says this constantly  kept her short  of money.  She was also caused anxiety 
as she was due to make stage payments  to her contractors and was unsure if the money 
would be available.
I think that Ocaso should pay compensation of £600. This includes the £100  already offered 
but not, so far Im aware, paid. 
 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to:
pay any outstanding  council tax bills on Miss Ts alternative accommodation, and add 
simple interest* at 8% per year on each payment from when they became due until it 
settles my award. If any of the outstanding bills were  paid by credit card then the 
paragraph below applies to those payments.
pay Miss Ts credit card interest  where she made those payments on her card for council 
tax, subject to the production of statements by Miss T.
pay £600 compensation. If Ocaso  has paid the £100 offered it may deduct that from this 
figure.
*Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros is required  by HM Revenue and Customs  
to deduct tax from any interest paid. Should  Miss T request it, Ocaso should provide her with 
a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, she can 
reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
Ref: DRN85147824Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8514782