K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired  with the assistance of finance from Black  Horse 
Limited did not have  parking sensors  as advertised. He also complains that the price of the 
car and length  of the credit agreement  were wrong in the credit  agreement he signed.
background
Mr M acquired a BMW  116d on 25 January 2019  from a third party dealership  with the 
assistance of finance  provided by Black Horse.  He explained that the car he initially wanted 
had been sold and he was offered an alternative  by the dealership. Mr M test drove  the car 
and agreed to go ahead with purchase.  He says that he was told that the car had parking 
sensors and this was also stated  on the car specifications displayed in the car and on the 
dealership website. Mr M says he agreed that the finance agreement was to be for 36 
months and he thought  that the price of the car was £12,900 as this was the price displayed  
on a board inside  the car.
Mr M complained that the car did not have parking sensors as advertised and the price in the 
credit agreement was £14,199 and the term was 48 months. Mr M said he would  not have 
bought the car if he had known all of these  things.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She considered that the price 
and duration were clearly  stated in the credit  agreement  signed by Mr M and it was his 
responsibility to check  it and raise any queries before signing it. She wasnt  able to comment 
on what Mr M had been told about  the price but given the price on the dealership website 
was around £14,000 and a valuation of the car was around this amount she thought that it 
was likely that Mr M had been given the correct price.
Our adjudicator looked at the paperwork signed  by Mr M and considered that the dealership 
had done enough to draw  his attention to the fact that the specification may not be correct.  
Mr M signed a disclaimer in which he was asked to check that the specification matched his 
requirements. In the circumstances she didnt think that the car had been mis-sold.
Mr M didnt  agree and replied to say in summary  that he bought  the car in good faith and 
was misled by the dealership about  a number of important features. He asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint and said the he should not be expected to pay for a 
feature that he doesnt have. Since the complaint has been  passed to me I can see that Mr 
M has raised  further issues  about  the incorrect servicing of the car and a mechanical 
problem.
      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr M is disappointed  that his car doesnt have parking sensors and I 
can see that he relied on the description  on the dealership website and displayed  in the car. 
The dealership has explained that the specifications are taken from an external source as it 
isnt possible for it to verify the features on each and every  car. Occasionally, the features 
may be incorrect and so this information is highlighted to potential  customers. Underneath 
the specification  that Mr M saw in the car the following is stated,
Ref: DRN86784562The data displayed  below highlights the typical  specification of the most recent model  of this 
vehicle. This specification is sourced from leading industry suppliers CAP/HPI.  We offer this 
information in good faith however  cannot guarantee the accuracy  of any 
specification/information supplied by 3rd party providers. The specification can vary. You 
must physically check the specification  of the vehicle on site prior to purchase. The 
specification & features  on this website do not form part of the buying  contract.
Mr M also signed a disclaimer in the following  terms,
The specification information displayed on our website and digital advertising is supplied  by 
industry leading  data specialist CAPHPI. We make every effort to make sure our customers 
are aware of this. This is disclaimed clearly  on our website so there can be no 
misunderstanding.
On very rare occasions an element(s)  of CAPHPI specification data may be incorrect, which  
is why we ask you to make sure the car has the specification you require and you are 
expecting.
We therefore ask you to check the car for the specification prior to purchase.
Mr M then signed the disclaimer as follows,  I confirm that I have checked the specification 
of the car registration below and I understand the specification may vary from the 
specification displayed
Mr M had an opportunity to drive  the car and confirmed that he performed a reversing  
manoeuvre so he was given an opportunity to check whether the car had parking  sensors  
before he bought it. In these circumstances I think that it was made clear to Mr M on more  
than one occasion that he should  check the specification of the car and not rely on the 
description given.  If parking sensors were  an essential feature then I think  it is reasonable to 
expect Mr M to have checked. So I cant say that the car was mis-sold to him on this basis.
Looking at the price  and the length  of credit agreement I can see that these  are clearly 
expressed in the credit  agreement signed  by Mr M. I dont know what was said to him by the 
salesperson at the dealership but I can see that Mr M has signed the credit agreement 
where the price  and duration are clearly set out. Just above Mr Ms signature are the words, 
Sign this agreement only if you want to be legally bound by its terms. I can appreciate  that 
Mr M signed many pieces of paperwork and he might not have read every  term in detail but I 
think it is reasonable to expect Mr M to have understood the main terms from the information 
that he was given. I would expect Mr M to have checked the main terms of the agreement, 
particularly in relation how much  his monthly  payments  would be and for how long. If this 
wasnt what he had agreed  then I would expect any queries to be raised  then. 
I know this is disappointing for Mr M and I dont doubt what he thought  the price  and duration  
was, but I cant say that the terms werent made  clear to him before he signed  or that he was 
misled into signing the credit agreement.
Mr M has raised other  issues with the car relating  to the service  history and a mechanical  
fault. I cant consider  these issues as part of this complaint  as Mr M has to give the business  
an opportunity to deal with these matters first. I hope that these can be resolved without 
further complaint.  
Ref: DRN86784563my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
3 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8678456