K821x#15complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about the amount of tax free cash (TFC) hes entitled to receive from his 
section 32 buy-out plan with Legal & General  (L&G), now ReAssure Limited. 
background 
Whats happened  isnt in dispute.  L&G told Mr L in December 2017 and May 2018  that hed 
receive TFC of £699,310.09 from his L&G section  32 buy out plan. But in July 2018 L&G told 
Mr L the TFC it had previously quoted was incorrect and the correct  amount was only 
£580,099.41.
Mr L had scheme specific Protected  Tax Free Cash (PTFC) which  meant he was entitled to 
receive more than the usual 25% TFC. Mr L also had Fixed  Protection 2014 (FP 2014). He 
has a lifetime allowance (LTA)  of £1.5 million  as opposed to the current  £1,073,100.
Mr L didnt agree that he was only entitled  to the lower sum. He asked specialist tax 
accountants to calculate the correct amount of TFC he was entitled  to. Mr Ls accountants 
concluded that he was entitled  to £646,583.71. L&G didnt accept that. 
Mr L complained to L&G in July 2018.  He was unhappy with the delays in obtaining
his TFC and that L&G had told him that it had incorrectly calculated his TFC.  
L&G responded on 16 August 2018. It agreed it had taken too long to provide information 
Mr L had requested in June 2018 about  taking  benefits from his plan. And, more  than once,  
it had given him incorrect information about the amount of the PTFC he could take from his 
plan. L&G offered Mr L £500 in recognition of the time and effort  hed spent dealing  with the 
matter and the distress  L&Gs errors had caused. But L&G didnt agree Mr L was entitled to 
the higher TFC originally  quoted. 
Mr L referred the matter  to his service. Our adjudicator thought  Mr Ls accountants (whose 
calculations she shared with L&G) had calculated Mr Ls TFC correctly and he was entitled 
to the higher amount.  But as HMRC had the final say she recommended that L&G refer the 
issue to HMRC for its final decision.  
L&G did that.  But HMRC  said it couldnt confirm L&Gs calculations were  correct as that 
wasnt a service which HMRC provided. 
The matter  was then referred to me. I issued a provisional decision on 18 June 2020. About 
L&Gs handling of the matter I said L&G had accepted that it didnt deal with Mr Ls concerns 
promptly and gave  him incorrect information  about  the amount of the PTFC he was entitled 
to. L&G had offered  Mr L £500 for its admitted shortcomings in how it handled  the matter. I 
said I thought  that was fair and reasonable and at least as much  as wed award  in the 
circumstances. So I was going to concentrate on the dispute  as to the amount of TFC Mr L 
was entitled to. 
I set out my understanding of how that was calculated. And that I agreed with the 
methodology used  by Mr Ls accountants  and which meant  that Mr L was entitled to the 
higher amount, plus interest on any sums unpaid. I also awarded  a further £250 for trouble 
and upset (that was in addition to the £500 already offered). And I though L&G should 
contribute  pay 50% - towards the costs  Mr L had incurred with his accountants. 
Ref: DRN89117712Mr L accepted  my provisional  decision. L&G didnt. L&G referred back  to what  HMRC had 
said. Although HMRC had declined to confirm L&Gs calculations HMRC had commented as 
follows:
However, as regards your interpretation of the rules regarding PCLS  and Fixed  Protection 
2014 (FP2014),  unlike  earlier protections, FP2014  made no allowance for protected lump 
sum amounts pre-dating  6th April 2006.
Therefore, the rules  limiting a PCLS to a maximum of 25% of the personal LTA or 25% of the 
pensionable amount being  crystallised  applies regardless  of the arrangement  coming into 
payment (PTM093100).
The only exception to this is where an individual has a scheme  specific lump sum. 
Therefore, if the individual has a scheme specific lump sum, the rules under PTM063130 are 
to be followed.  This may generate a tax free PCLS greater than 25% but if so, this is in 
recognition of the pre-6th April 2006 rights held by the individual.
Beyond the scheme specific lump sum,  everything else must comply with the rules  for 
FP2014, which restricts PCLS's to a maximum of 25%.
L&G said its understanding of that was: if the individual has a scheme specific lump  sum, 
PTM063130 applied. That might generate a tax free PCLS greater than 25% but if so that 
was solely  in recognition of the pre 6 April 2006 rights held by the individual.  Beyond  the 
scheme specific lump sum everything else must comply with FP 2014  which  restricts a 
PCLS to a maximum of 25% of the individuals remaining LTA. 
L&G added that the examples of the calculations assumed that the current  fund value will be 
less than the LTA/FP  2014. And the calculation Id set out would work if Mr Ls fund value 
was less than £1.5 million. But because it was more there was a step missing  reducing  the 
fund value to the level of FP 2014.  L&G set out how it thought the calculation should be 
done. And it gave  examples of some  other  scenarios  to back up what  it had said.  
I considered L&Gs comments  and I could see some force and logic in L&Gs  arguments. 
The further information L&G provided  or referred me to made  me think that perhaps what  
L&G was saying was right. I accepted  that L&G wasnt being obstructive  but just trying to 
ensure that Mr L was paid the right amount of TFC. And, given that it would be HMRC whod 
say if Mr L had received  the correct amount, the last thing  I wanted  to do was to tell L&G to 
pay the higher  amount and for HMRC to then say Mr L had been paid too much and hed 
face a tax charge. 
In the circumstances we asked  if L&G could  go back to HMRC. We knew that HMRC  
couldnt  undertake  any calculations.  But we thought  it should  be possible  for L&G to ask 
for clarification  of what  HMRC  said earlier,  including  about  the final sentence  of HMRCs  
email  of 8 February  2019  and how that operates  in a case  (such  as here)  where  the 
current  fund value  is more  than the LTA of £1.5 million  provided  by FP 2014.  And which  
might  mean  that sentence  should  be read as meaning  that the remaining  PCLS  after 
calculation  of the scheme  specific  protected  lump  sum is restricted  to a maximum  of 
25% of the individual's  unused/remaining  LTA.
L&G said it would do that. It also informed us that part of its business (which included  Mr Ls 
policy) had been sold to ReAssure Limited whod be taking over responsibility for Mr Ls 
case. Unfortunately, it seems L&G didnt action the request before ReAssure Limited  took 
over and ReAssure Limited didnt  then pick the matter up. 
Ref: DRN89117713We contacted HMRC direct. We referred  HMRC to its previous email set out above  and, in 
particular, to the last sentence and how that operated in a case such as Mr Ls where the 
current fund value was more than the LTA of £1.5 million provided by FP 2014. And which 
might mean that the final sentence should be read as meaning that the remaining PCLS 
after calculation of the scheme specific protected  lump sum was restricted to a maximum of 
25% of the individuals unused/remaining LTA. 
HMRC replied very promptly. HMRC  said it should have emphasised that PCLS  is only 
available where  there  remains  unused LTA,  of which, a PCLS  will be limited  to 25% of that 
unused value. 
We shared L&Gs responses to my provisional  decision and our email to HMRC and its 
response with Mr L. At the same time I issued (on 24 February  2021)  a further provisional 
decision. My further provisional findings  were  as follows:
I think the further clarification from HMRC  has put the matter beyond doubt.  
Its latest email was unequivocal in confirming  that its earlier email should  be read as 
meaning that the remaining PCLS after calculation  of the scheme specific  protected lump 
sum is restricted  to a maximum of 25% of the individuals unused/remaining LTA. 
Thats what  L&G has argued  throughout. Essentially that theres a difference  between the 
PCLS available to Mr L (taking into account his scheme specific  PTFC and which I think  is 
agreed) and the maximum amount he can take tax free. 
So Im now not going  to uphold the main  aspect of Mr Ls complaint. 
That means Im not going to make any of the orders I set out in my earlier provisional 
decision (about  paying  the higher amount  plus interest, a further £250 for trouble and upset 
and contributing 50% to Mr Ls accountants  fees). 
I can see that Mr L might say, about  his accountants costs, that, regardless of the outcome, 
the position wasnt clear  cut (supported by the fact that the adjudicator  upheld  the complaint 
and I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint too) and so it was reasonable for 
him to seek  professional assistance. 
I dont disagree. But the point is, if L&G was right all along, then it wouldnt be fair to say that 
L&G should  contribute  to the professional fees Mr L has incurred in challenging what  L&G 
said. And thats notwithstanding  the complexities and that Mr L acted reasonably in querying  
the position, especially as L&G had originally  said (more  than once) that a higher sum was 
due.
I think the £500 L&G initially offered for its poor handling of the matter  is fair and reasonable 
and Im not going  to say that ReAssure Limited must pay any more. Ive made  a direction 
below on the basis that Mr L hasnt already been  paid the money. Id ask him and ReAssure 
Limited to let me know  if the payment has in fact already been  made. 
My further provisional decision was that ReAssure Limited just needed to pay the £500  L&G 
had originally offered  for its poor handling  of the matter. 
ReAssure Limited hasnt responded to my further  provisional decision. Mr L has. 
Understandably hes very disappointed and feels hes been let down. In summary he said:
Ref: DRN89117714L&G had given  incorrect and conflicting information as to the TFC.  And had exhibited 
a systematic attitude of contempt towards  Mr L as a policyholder. That raised 
questions of competency and good  faith.
Errors and omissions  had been exacerbated  by repeated and extended  delays. 
Thered been  attempts to divert attention from L&Gs own failings by incorrectly 
suggesting that relevant information hadnt been  provided by him.
L&Gs representatives had reported  that the TFC was £699,310.09. That sum and 
the methodology behind it was confirmed (at his specific  request) and reconfirmed (at 
his specific request)  over an extended  period of many months.
Typically, L&G didnt  respond to queries without frequent and repeated  email  and 
telephone chasing.  Response times have nearly  always been inexcusably  long. After 
many months, when he couldnt  defer  the crystallisation process further,  
representatives, who hed had no previous contact with, refused to honour  the 
commitment earlier  given  and arbitrarily reduced the TFC by around £120,000 
without attempting  to explain  why and incorrectly suggesting he hadnt provided a 
copy of his FP 2014. L&G has continued  to refuse  to honour the commitment of 
£699,310.09 previously given.
L&Gs various representatives are presented as technical specialists but dont agree 
amongst themselves how HRMCs Pensions  Manual should be applied  and different 
sections of the L&G are at variance  with others.
He was unable  to rely on L&G so he engaged  accountants (renown  experts in 
pension tax) whove confirmed (based on current values) the TFC should be 
£653,665.98.
We asked Mr L if hed received the £500 previously  offered. And if hed shared my further 
provisional decision with his accountants. He told us he hadnt received the payment and 
that he hadnt wanted to incur further costs with his accountants.  Hed sent them  a copy  of 
my further provisional decision but he hadnt  heard further. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr L again  for his patience throughout. Im sorry I cant offer him better news. But, as 
I explained in my further provisional decision, in the light of what  HMRC has more recently 
said, Ive changed  my mind about the main  aspect of his complaint  how much TFC hes 
entitled to. I now agree  that the lower amount calculated  by L&G,  based  on the then fund 
value, was correct.  Im very sorry to disappoint Mr L but, for the reasons Ive explained, I 
cant now uphold the central aspect of his complaint. 
Mr L is also unhappy with how L&G handled  the matter. L&G accepted it could have dealt  
with the matter better and that there were delays.  It offered Mr L £500. 
Where a business accepts that mistakes were  made  and/or that there  were  delays and has 
made an offer, wed look to see if that offer was fair and reasonable. 
Ive said it was. Awards for non financial loss are perhaps more modest than Mr L might 
expect. £500 is at the lower end of what we might award where  we consider substantial 
inconvenience has been caused.  But I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of 
Mr Ls complaint. 
Ref: DRN89117715In saying that Ive considered very carefully Mr Ls further comments.  Hes referred to L&G 
having given a commitment to pay the higher sum which it then refused to honour. Im not 
sure if Mr L is suggesting that, once  a certain figure had been  quoted,  L&G was then obliged 
to pay that sum and couldnt later revise  its calculations and say Mr L was only entitled to a 
lower amount. 
Its only in very limited circumstances, which I dont  think apply here, that a legal obligation to 
pay a higher sum quoted  in error  will arise. In most cases, if a mistake is later discovered, it 
can be corrected. I note here what Mr L says about  having, more than once, asked for and 
obtained confirmation. But I still dont think that means hes entitled to the higher sum.  In my 
view, its more a question of disappointment and loss of expectation  which is reflected in the 
payment for distress and inconvenience or trouble and upset.
Im sorry  if Mr L feels that L&Gs attitude towards  him was poor. And, if at some stage, there 
was a suggestion he hadnt  supplied  his FP 2014  when he had. In my further provisional 
decision, I said I accepted that L&G wasnt being  obstructive (at least in its dealing with this 
service) but was just trying to ensure Mr L was paid the right amount of TFC. 
As I noted,  what I (and I assume  L&G)  didnt want to happen was for Mr L to be paid the 
higher amount and then face a tax charge imposed by HMRC and who (and not me or L&G) 
would have the ultimate say in what Mr Ls tax position was. In the circumstances  I can see 
why L&G would have  wanted to proceed  with caution, as I too did. From what  Ive seen, I 
dont think L&G was being deliberately obstructive,  although I accept Mr L might view things 
differently. 
I note what Mr L says about different departments of L&G not agreeing with each other. But 
the issue hasnt  been straightforward. Mr Ls situation is somewhat unusual  in that he has 
scheme specific protection,  FP 2014 and his fund value is in excess  of his (protected) LTA of 
£1.5 million. And working out how PTM  063130  and PTM 093100 might interact wasnt  
obvious. 
In those circumstances I can see why Mr L decided to seek assistance from specialist 
accountants. The issue was technical,  there  was considerable uncertainty as to what the 
correct calculation was and the sum in dispute  was large. 
Originally, I said L&G should meet half the fees Mr L had incurred. But that was on the basis 
I thought L&G was wrong and Mr L was entitled to the higher TFC. 
I can also understand why Mr L didnt want  to incur further fees in reverting to his 
accountants when  I issued my further provisional  decision. But, and in the absence  of any 
arguments as to why my revised views might be incorrect, Im no longer able to uphold 
Mr Ls main complaint. It follows I cant make any award for professional fees Mr L incurred 
to support his argument that he was entitled to the higher sum.
Mr L has said his accountants say, based on current fund values, hes entitled to TFC of 
£653,665.98. I havent  asked for details of how that figure has been calculated.  Ive just 
concentrated on whether the methodology L&G has said should be employed is correct. 
From what  Ive seen it is.  
Ref: DRN89117716Mr L has told us hes yet to receive  the £500  L&G initially offered for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by L&Gs admitted poor handling of the matter.  Ive made a direction 
below for ReAssure Limited  to pay that amount to Mr L. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint but only in part. ReAssure Limited must pay him £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8911771