K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay  Ltd registered  a default on his credit file without  him knowing 
and hed like it removed.  He says he didnt receive  any letters about this and he also thinks 
the date of the default is wrong.
background
The background to this complaint and my initial findings on it, are set out in my provisional 
decision a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision.
NewDay has indicated that it accepts my provisional decision.
But Mr C doesnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary:
he says he hasnt  received £40 compensation  from NewDay.
he appreciates my suggested  award  of an additional £75 compensation but hed 
rather the default was removed.
if hed received another default  notice he would have avoided the default. Although 
he was sent statements  he thought  NewDay was happy to keep adding  charges. If 
hed known about the severity and made their intentions clear  he would have come 
up with a sensible arrangement.
its not the case that he wouldnt  pay. He says the reason  he couldnt catch up on 
payments is because he was being  pressured to pay more than he could  afford. He 
says the debt management company to whom his debt was sold have been more 
understanding and hes now paid off his debt.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having finished my review I havent been  
persuaded by Mr Cs responses to my provisional  decision. It follows Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision. So Ill explain why.
Mr C has made a number of points which I have read and considered. I realise he says he 
never received the default notice  in December 2017 and he feels  strongly that the default  
shouldnt have been recorded. He also says if hed received another  default notice he would 
have taken action  and come up with a sensible arrangement. Ive thought carefully  about  
this.
I think its more likely than not that the default  notice was sent because  NewDay provided  a 
copy of it and it appears to have  been  correctly addressed  to Mr C. I still think  NewDay 
should really have issued a further  default notice  but I dont think the default would have 
been avoided  even if itd done so.
I say this because  Im satisfied that after it issued the default notice in December 2017, it 
wrote to him again  in March 2018. This letter made clear that his account was seriously  
overdue and if he didnt pay the default would be reported to credit reference  agencies. So I 
dont agree he wasnt aware  of the severity  of the situation.
Ref: DRN85910572I also note that in addition to letter NewDay sent to Mr C in March  2018, it continued to send 
him statements showing hed exceeded his credit  limit and detailing  the amount he needed 
to pay. So Im satisfied  he knew he owed money  to NewDay  and that hed exceeded his 
credit limit. And even  though he continued  to receive  statements showing he owed money, 
theres nothing to suggest he made  any further payment after February 2018. I think he had 
sufficient time to make a payment or come  to another arrangement  with NewDay,  but theres  
nothing to suggest he did so.
Im pleased Mr C has now settled his debt with the debt management company to whom  
NewDay sold his debt.  The information provided  shows he settled his debt with a discount  
and this will show as partially  settled on his credit file. But I cant  find that this shows  he 
would have paid his debt to NewDay. As Ive already  explained above  Im satisfied he knew  
he owed money to NewDay but theres  nothing to suggest he made any further payment 
after February 2018 and neither did he make a further arrangement.
Im pleased Mr C has had a positive experience with the debt management company to 
whom NewDay sold his debt but I cant comment on this because  this complaint is about the 
way Mr C was treated by NewDay.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and NewDay Ltd should pay to Mr C 
£105 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result  of a further 
default notice  not being sent, save insofar as any part of this award has already  been paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85910573copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay  Ltd registered  a default on his credit file without  him 
knowing and hed like it removed. He says he didnt receive any letters about this and he 
also thinks the date of the default is wrong.
background
Mr C says that without  his knowledge  NewDay registered a default on his credit file in 
respect his credit card account. He says he never  received a default  notice so hed like 
the default to be removed. He also says the date of the default  sounds wrong.
Initially NewDay didnt uphold his complaint. They said the default was registered  by the 
debt management  company to whom  theyd sold Mr Cs debt. They suggested  Mr C should 
contact the debt management  company if he was unhappy with the information recorded.
But when Mr C did this the debt management  company said they hadnt registered 
the default either. So Mr C went back to NewDay.
NewDay later confirmed  theyd registered the default just before his debt was sold to a 
debt management  company at the end of August  2018. They agreed theyd given incorrect 
information about who had registered the default and paid £40 compensation. But they 
said the default was correctly recorded  because his account went into arrears in November 
2017 and hed been sent a default  notice and further letters about what  would  happen if his 
account wasnt brought up to date.
Unhappy with NewDays response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought  
the £40 compensation paid by NewDay was fair.
Our investigator couldnt tell whod registered the default but he thought it was correctly 
recorded. NewDay had provided evidence to show theyd sent a default notice to Mr C in 
December 2017.  He noted that it was a long time before the default was recorded,  but he 
thought the delay was fair because  during  this time Mr C was given additional time to 
bring his account  up to date.
The investigator noted that from late March  2018  the financial relationship had broken down 
and no further  payments  were made. The account was placed  in default six months after this 
point and the investigator thought this was in line with the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) guidance for businesses when  filing defaults.
Mr C disagrees  with the investigators view and hes asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. He says he never received  the default  notice. He also says he received a 
statement from NewDay in August 2018  which said he still had time to pay.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN85910574As the investigator  has already explained  I cant tell who registered the default. But in any 
event NewDay confirmed  they did this in late August 2018  before they sold Mr Cs debt 
to a debt management company. Although Mr C would  like to know  who registered the 
default I think his main concern is that he believes the default was incorrectly recorded.
Mr C says he never received the default  notice  sent by NewDay in December 2017. 
However, I think its more likely than not that it was sent because  Ive seen a copy of 
what NewDay sent and it appears to be correctly addressed. Non-receipt by Mr C 
doesnt invalidate  the default  notice. I appreciate that theres been a long delay between 
NewDay issuing the default notice in December 2017 and the default  being recorded in 
late August 2018.  So the question I have to consider is whether this was fair.
NewDays customer notes show that shortly  after the date of the default notice, Mr C 
phoned and agreed a payment arrangement. However, by mid-December 2017 he informed 
them that due to unexpected expenses  the arrangement was no longer  suitable and a new 
arrangement was put in place for the next six months.
In January 2018 the arrangement was again  re-set due to unexpected expenses over the 
holiday period.  And in early February 2018  further issues  occurred and another plan was 
put in place. NewDays notes of its conversation with Mr C at the time show  that it explained 
to him that if payment wasnt received his account would be passed on immediately.
The ICO guidance explains that the ICO generally expects a default to be registered by the 
time a consumer is six months in arrears. Clearly  that wasnt  the case here but the guidance 
goes on to provide  that where  an arrangement  is agreed a default  wont normally be 
registered unless  the payment terms are broken. In Mr Cs case  Im satisfied that the 
reason NewDay didnt record a default  once Mr C was six months  in arrears is because he 
was given additional time to bring his account up to date  as Ive explained above.
Mr Cs last recorded payment was in late February  2018. This payment was made later than 
the date hed agreed with NewDay. This meant he broke the terms of his arrangement with 
NewDay. NewDay then wrote to him in March 2018.  The letter explained that payment on his 
account was now seriously overdue. It also said that if he didnt  pay well report the default 
on your account to credit reference agencies. This will stay on your file for six years and 
make it harder for you to get credit in the future.
NewDay placed Mr Cs account  in default  within six months of the March  2018  and this 
letter was sent after Mr C broke the terms of his payment  arrangement.  The March 2018 
letter clearly  explained  what would happen if he didnt pay. NewDay  recorded the default 
within six months of him breaking his arrangement.  In these circumstances I think 
NewDay should really  have issued a new default notice to Mr C but - even if it had done 
so - I dont think it would  have  changed  what eventually happened  here for the reasons Ill 
explain below.
Ive seen copies  of statements NewDay continued  to send to Mr C between March 2018  
and August 2018  after Mr C made his last payment. They  clearly  show he was over his 
credit limit and these amounts are referred to as Overlimit Due Immediately . Each 
statement then sets out the minimum payment due from him and the date by which its due. 
The statement  says:
Ref: DRN85910575You have failed to make a minimum payment. Failing to make your minimum payment 
can mean that you have broken the terms of this credit agreement and could result in us 
taking legal action  you.
However, I havent  seen  anything to suggest that NewDay issued a further default notice 
or that his account  was terminated so I can see that the lack of a further  default  notice  and 
further information he received caused confusion. Mr Cs August 2018 statement,  for 
example, explained that Mr C must make his required  minimum payment by early  
September 2018. This suggests he still had time to pay so I can understand why he was 
concerned that NewDay then registered  a default at the end of August 2018  without  
issuing a new default notice.
But although I think NewDay should have issued a further default notice in these 
circumstances I cant agree the default would have  been avoided had they done so. Im 
satisfied the default would  still have  happened due to a lack of action on Mr Cs part. I say 
this because Im satisfied he knew he was over his credit limit and owed money to 
NewDay. Hed made several arrangements to pay each  of which  was broken. And, after he 
made his last payment to NewDay in February  2018, Im satisfied the statements he was 
sent clearly showed  he was over his credit limit and the minimum amount he needed to 
pay, but didnt.
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont require NewDay to remove  the default.  But I think  
its appropriate to award £75 compensation to him  in addition to the £40 already paid by 
NewDay -for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of a further  default  notice 
not being sent.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. And I intend to 
direct NewDay Ltd to pay Mr C £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused as a result of a further default notice  not being sent.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8591057