K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid  shouldnt  have provided 
him with loans in 2017. He says that he was trapped in a debt  spiral  by the lending and that 
if QuickQuid had done adequate checks it wouldve  recognised his poor financial situation  
and shouldnt have  provided him with further  credit.
background
Ive previously issued  two provisional decisions  in this case.  This was to allow both parties  to 
respond and provide  anything further  they wanted  me to consider before I reached my final 
decision. The background to the complaint is as follows:
Mr M took two loans with QuickQuid. Both loans involved  three repayments; two of interest 
only and a third  the balloon payment  made  up of a further  months interest and all of 
the principal sum originally borrowed. 
Loan 1 was provided on 2 May 2017.  Mr M borrowed £400. It was repaid on 
15 September 2017  two months  later than originally agreed.
Loan 2 was for £600 and was taken on 16 October  2017. Loan 2 hasnt been repaid. As I 
understand it, an outstanding balance remains. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He thought that QuickQuid hadnt done 
anything wrong  in respect of the first loan but that it had failed to do enough in relation to the 
second and as a result he recommended  that QuickQuid put things right for Mr M. 
QuickQuid didnt agree with our adjudicators assessment so the case  came to me for a 
decision.
In my first provisional decision  I explained why I was minded to uphold  more aspects of 
Mr Ms complaint than our adjudicator.  QuickQuid  responded, so I thought  about what  it told 
me. Although I didnt  reach a different  conclusion  I decided  to issue a second provisional 
decision as I was referring to things  not previously mentioned and I sent QuickQuid  some  of 
Mr Ms bank statements to help it understand how Id reached  my provisional conclusions. 
QuickQuid has once  again responded at length.    
Mr M hasnt  provided any comments about my provisional decisions. But he has explained to 
me why he thinks his full bank statements  shouldnt  be disclosed to QuickQuid.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Id like to reassure  QuickQuid that 
I've thought carefully about all of its submissions.  But having  done so, I havent been  
persuaded to change  my conclusions. 
For each lending decision, Ive thought about these  overarching questions:
For each loan,  did QuickQuid carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable  way?
Ref: DRN80105802If it didnt carry out those checks, would they have shown that Mr M could have 
repaid the loans  sustainably?
Given this type of loan is intended  for short-term  use only,  did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Mr Ms indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise 
harmful?
Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Since April 2014  QuickQuid has been regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). 
The Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) contains  some  of the rules and guidance  in 
particular, Chapter 5 of CONC  - Responsible Lending - which  was applicable at the time 
QuickQuid sold its loans  to Mr M.
Chapter 5 of CONC required lenders to carry out an assessment of the creditworthiness of a 
customer (CONC  5.2.1R  (1)). And when doing that it was required, under CONC 5.2.1R(2),  
to consider 
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customer's financial situation, taking into account the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]1
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG] 
Furthermore, when carrying out that assessment QuickQuid  had to take into account more  
than simply Mr Ms ability to repay  the credit (CONC 5.3.1(1)).  QuickQuid also had to take 
reasonable steps to assess Mr Ms ability to meet the repayments under  his credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner - without him incurring  financial difficulties or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences.
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  that repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time,
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is
an open-end agreement,  within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets.
CONC 5.2.3 added that the extent  and scope of the creditworthiness assessment in a given 
case should be dependent upon and proportionate to a number of factors  which  could 
include one or more of the following:
(1) the type of credit;
1 ILG is the Irresponsible Lending Guidance  - the Office of Fair Trading guidance for creditors issued in March 2010
Ref: DRN80105803(2) the amount  of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking  the
credit;
(5) the customer's credit history,  including any indications that the
customer is experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments  including any
repayments due in respect of other  credit  agreements, consumer hire
agreements, regulated  mortgage contracts, payments  for rent, council
tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications,  water and other major
outgoings known  to the firm;
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably
expected to have a significant financial adverse impact on the
customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm
understands the customer has some form of mental capacity
limitation or reasonably suspects this to be so because the customer
displays indications of some form of mental capacity limitation (see
CONC 2.10).
[Note: paragraph 4.10 of ILG]
But CONC also explained  in paragraph 5.2.4 that considering all the factors mentioned  in 
paragraph 5.2.3  could be disproportionate.  
CONC provided some examples of types and sources of information which QuickQuid  could 
use when making  its proportionate assessment. For example it could consider some or all 
of the following:
its record of previous dealings;
evidence of income;
evidence of expenditure;
a credit score;
a credit reference agency report; and
information provided by the customer.
So QuickQuid was required not to lend irresponsibly. It needed to check that Mr M would be 
able to afford to pay back each loan in a sustainable  way. 
the sale of Loan 1
I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint that QuickQuid acted irresponsibly when it provided him 
with Loan 1. Ill explain below why I think it did something wrong  when it refinanced Loan 1 - 
a few months later - but I remain of the view that whilst borderline, on balance, I dont think it 
was unreasonable to lend Mr M £400 on 2 May 2017 on the terms agreed  at that time.  
I have made  it clear throughout my provisional decisions that how QuickQuid structured its 
loan products was a matter for it  so long as it complied with its regulatory  obligations. And 
Mr M wasnt complaining about the structure  of the loans he took  his complaint was about 
the fact that they had been  sold to him. 
Ref: DRN80105804So - and to reassure QuickQuid once again  - I havent adopted  an in-principle policy  
objection to a specific loan structure  as it has previously stated. This is demonstrated by the 
fact that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about  the sale of Loan 1. What I have done is to 
consider whether QuickQuid acted fairly towards Mr M.
As I am not attaching copies of my provisional decisions to this document I think  its 
important for the sake of completeness  to explain why I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint 
about the sale of Loan1. I've rounded the figures involved to the nearest pound  for ease of 
reference.
The structure of Loan 1 (and indeed Loan  2) meant that the final balloon payment was much  
higher than the earlier interest-only repayments. It was provided on 2 May 2017.  Mr M 
borrowed £400 and he was due to repay this in 73 days by way of three payments: £31 on 
15 May, £99 on 15 June and £493  on 14 July.
Mr M declared an income of £1,900  per month. The highest repayment - the balloon 
payment - due in July was £493. Given that this was a significant proportion of Mr Ms 
declared income I think QuickQuid was right to ask him for details of his expenditure. I 
understand that QuickQuid asked Mr M about his regular monthly outgoings and monthly 
credit commitments.
Mr M declared outgoings of £825  leaving a declared monthly disposable income  of around 
£1,075. According to QuickQuid it did more than simply accept these figures.  It says it 
validated Mr Ms declared expenses against his credit reference  agency (CRA) reports and 
Office of National Statistics  (ONS)  estimates. 
For Loan 1 this resulted in a monthly  estimated disposable income (EDI) of £518   
somewhat less than Mr Ms declared disposable income of £1,075. QuickQuid  hasnt told us 
what information it had which  led it to an EDI figure of £518, but it does seem that QuickQuid 
did more than simply rely on the declared  figures from Mr M.  
The final repayment  (the balloon repayment  of £493) was very close  to Mr Ms EDI of £518.  
But the two earlier repayments of £31 and £99 were well within that EDI. This was the first 
loan Mr M had taken with QuickQuid. It had asked for his income  and expenditure and  
using other  information  assessed an EDI. Whilst - even  on its sums it seems  that the balloon 
repayment was in effect taking up virtually all of that months EDI, I dont  think that I've seen 
enough to conclude that QuickQuid was unreasonable in deciding  that Mr M would be in a 
position to meet the repayments in a sustainable  way when they fell due.   
So I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint about  the sale of Loan1. To be clear I do not make a 
finding that this loan was actually affordable as stated by QuickQuid in response to my first 
provisional decision; rather I think it was reasonably entitled to conclude  that it was not 
unaffordable. So I'm not persuaded that QuickQuid  acted irresponsibly when providing 
Loan 1.
the refinance of Loan 1
Ive already mentioned the structure  of the loans taken by Mr M. And I've made it clear that I 
accept that it is for lenders to structure their products  as they see fit  so long as the lenders 
comply with their regulatory  obligations. Id expect that the repayment structure should be 
part of a lenders  assessment  of sustainability before granting a loan. Its something Ive 
thought about when  deciding whether  QuickQuid  acted fairly and reasonably. Similarly I 
Ref: DRN80105805think the structure of Loan 1 shouldve played  an important part in QuickQuids consideration 
when it agreed to extend it on 10 July 2017.
Mr M made two repayments to his loan as planned  - £31 in May and £99 in June.  He then 
requested an extension of Loan 1 which meant that he was delaying  repayment of the 
principal hed borrowed. So, £93 was now due on 14 July, £102 was due on 15 August and 
£474 was due on 15 September. 
I accept that there was only one extension  that is one formal  refinance. But the resulting 
agreement meant that the repayment of the original loan was delayed for a further two 
months and involved  two additional interest-only payments before the final balloon  
repayment was to be made. 
In my provisional decisions I've talked at some  length about the broader regulatory 
environment which existed at the time QuickQuid allowed Mr M to roll over repayment of 
Loan 1. 
I had mentioned that the effect  of this kind of loan repayment structure (before it was 
extended) - which includes two monthly interest-only  payments followed by a third payment 
made up of another months  interest  and all the principal - is the same as if the customer  
took a simple, single  period payday  loan, rolled  it over twice and finally  repaid  it after three 
months. This is because  in both situations the customer makes two interest  only repayments 
and a final payment  made up of interest and all the principal. 
I also mentioned that over the years  there  had been a shift in the way lenders were  expected  
to behave so far as rolling over payday loans was concerned. Notwithstanding the broader 
principles of responsible  lending,  prior to 2012 there hadnt been a fixed  limit on how many 
times a payday loan could be rolled over. Two new codes were issued by lenders  trade 
bodies limiting  the number  of times  their members would extend  loans to a maximum of 
three. In 2014 the FCA concluded that even this cap didnt protect borrowers sufficiently. So 
it amended CONC to include a cap on rollovers to a maximum  of two. 
The purpose of the rollover  cap was to protect  consumers. The FCA explained that this was 
necessary because, a borrower  who has extended  the loan for more  than one period has 
already failed to repay the loan as expected on at least two occasions  despite providing 
adequate evidence of their ability to repay,  and because the effect of each rollover is that the 
borrowers debt burden is significantly increased.
 
I note that in response to my second  provisional decision QuickQuid says that Loan 1 was 
not a payday loan as it was not a single period loan to be repaid  on the customers  next 
payday.  But even if these loans were  not payday  loans  in the strict  sense it seems  to me 
that the impact  on the consumer was very similar to where a consumer rolled-over their 
payday loan twice. 
QuickQuid has also told me on several occasions about how it provided details of its 
intended loan structure to the FCA  so the FCA was aware of its model. I dont doubt that 
the FCA was made aware of how QuickQuid intended to structure its loans during the 
authorisation process. But it doesnt  follow that QuickQuid  could therefore never  then act 
unfairly towards its customers. 
And I think its also worth mentioning at this point that after this single rollover of this three-
month loan, Mr M paid £400 interest on a £400 loan  the maximum amount allowed under 
Ref: DRN80105806the total cost cap2 for high-cost short-term  credit products. So QuickQuid couldnt have 
extended Loan 1 for a second time (unless it did so on an interest-free basis) without being  
in breach of that cost cap as clearly,  any further  rollover (on which QuickQuick  continued to 
charge interest) would breach it.  It therefore seems  unlikely to me that QuickQuids 
discussions with the FCA about its products and the circumstances in which they might be 
refinanced would have resulted in the FCA explicitly approving the rollover of these products 
if the effect was to breach  the cost cap.
Ive thought about what QuickQuid has told me about the authorisation process. And I've 
also considered  the broader environment which Ive outlined above when deciding whether  
QuickQuid did something wrong when  it extended Mr Ms loan on the terms it did. But its the 
specific circumstances in Mr Ms case  which  I have  found most  compelling and which  have 
brought me to conclude that QuickQuid acted unfairly towards  him.
QuickQuid has confirmed  that the extension  request in question was made by Mr M to allow 
me to pay for other goods/services. This was even though  hed only paid interest  for the first 
two repayments.  And now he apparently had insufficient spare disposable income  to meet  
the balloon repayment in July.  The extension meant  that Mr M was going  to have to pay 
Quick Quid an additional £177 in interest  for his £400 loan, before finally repaying the loan 
on 15 September.
One of the principles for businesses regulated by the FCA (principle 6 in the FCA Handbook) 
required that a firm must pay due regard  to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. 
QuickQuid was aware that Mr M was unable to meet the balloon payment of £493  when it 
fell due in July despite having had to repay only £31 in May and £99 in June and despite  
QuickQuids checks suggesting that hed had an estimated disposable monthly income of 
£518. 
The refinance of Loan 1 meant that there  were  four months  during  which  Mr M repaid only 
interest and made no in-roads into the principal he owed on his high-cost QuickQuid loan. 
He only repaid the principal in the fifth month. 
Furthermore, as a result of QuickQuid extending Loan 1, Mr M paid an additional £177 in 
interest in order to delay  the repayment of his £400 loan principal by two months. In other 
words Mr M repaid  £800  in total; the original principal amount plus £400  of interest. This 
decision to extend  Loan 1 had the effect  of prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness  and did so in 
circumstances where  hed already demonstrated  that he hadnt been able to repay the loan 
on time.  
QuickQuid argues that it acted fairly  when  it agreed the extension.  In its response to my 
second provisional decision it said:
There is no intrinsic unfairness in the fact that the loan would be paid over four
months, as opposed to two months.  This was a consequence of the extension, but
there is nothing in this to make the decision unfair   on the contrary,  because  Mr M
was unable to repay the loan on the due date, it was self-evidently fair to allow  him
further time within which to repay the debt. Accordingly, this factor does not take
the analysis any further
2 A price cap on high-cost short-term credit was introduced by the FCA in 2015.  This included a total cost cap of 100% - so 
borrowers must never pay more in fees and interest  than 100% of what was borrowed.
Ref: DRN80105807I accept that it wont always be unfair  for a loan to be repaid over a longer period. But in this 
case, by extending the loan in these circumstances,  a significant sum in additional interest  
became payable by Mr M. And I agree that it wouldve been more self-evidently fair  in 
these circumstances  to have allowed him further time in which  to repay the debt. But in 
these circumstances  the fair thing to do wouldve been to extend the period for repayment   
but without charging  him additional high rates  of interest. In other  words   exercise 
forbearance. 
QuickQuid continued  at paragraph 31(1) of its response to my second provisional  decision:
As regards the additional interest paid, nor is this a reason  why the extension was
unfair. The mere fact that Mr M has had to pay additional interest does not make
the extension unfair  the practice of commercial lending (whether it be banks,
credit unions or otherwise) is premised on the notion that interest on the capital is
paid to the lender. The FOS has failed  to recognise that in return  for those payments,
Mr M received a benefit, as he was permitted more time to repay the loan. The FOSs
rationale is wrong because the FOS has failed to consider  what  would have been the
alternative scenario  had [QuickQuid]  refused  to agree  to grant Mr M an extension  to repay
the loan. This factor (which is addressed below)  is of critical importance, because in
order to determine whether or not [QuickQuid] treated Mr M fairly,  it is important to
understand what other options were available  to [QuickQuid].
I understand that the practice of commercial lending is premised on the notion  that interest 
on capital is paid to the lender. But, businesses such as QuickQuid are not allowed to 
continue to charge  interest indefinitely on the capital they advance:  the cost cap put a limit 
on that. And similarly  the rollover cap meant that businesses could not continue to extend 
loans over and over (whilst continuing to charge interest). Additionally, the fact that there are 
regulatory caps doesnt mean  that businesses have free rein to go up to those limits on 
every loan with every  consumer. They have to act fairly.   
In its response at paragraph  32 QuickQuid outlined what it deems the options  were:
If, when Mr M requested an extension in July 2017, [QuickQuid] had rejected  it, his loan 
would have been gone into default and he would have accrued a £15 late fee. A repayment 
plan would have been rearranged. He would  have been charged post-default  interest each 
day until he had made his payment. On any view, this outcome was not more favourable  to 
Mr M, because  had [QuickQuid] adopted this route, then taking into account  the various 
charges, it would have cost Mr M more than the extension. It would  likely  also have adversely 
affected his credit score. In short, it would in fact have resulted in worse  outcome for Mr M.
At paragraph  33 QuickQuid asks whether  it would  have  been fairer to Mr M if it had refused 
the extension  thereby  putting Mr M into default.  
But these  werent  the only options  available to QuickQuid. It couldve exercised forbearance. 
From the outset it was apparent that the final balloon repayment would take up virtually  all of 
Mr Ms monthly estimated  disposable income  in the month it was due  July. The 
circumstances at the time of the extension  suggested that he might not have been able to 
afford Loan 1 from the start, even though the checks QuickQuid had carried out suggested 
otherwise. He was now telling  QuickQuid  that he didnt have the means to make the balloon 
repayment on 14 July. He hadnt  made any inroad into the outstanding capital at this point - 
having held the loan for over two months.  
Ref: DRN80105808Its not clear to me why, having indicated that he couldnt afford to make  his scheduled 
balloon payment in July, QuickQuid concluded that Mr M would be better placed to make a 
similar payment  two months later and that it would be fair to charge him additional interest in 
the meantime.  
Rather than extending Loan 1 on terms that required  Mr M to pay an additional £177 in 
interest, I think  the fair thing to have  done  at this point wouldve been to come to a 
repayment plan  with reference to Mr Ms means  - so that he repaid the outstanding 
balance of £493 over an agreed period without adding  any more interest.
With all this in mind, Im satisfied that by extending Loan 1 - as it did - QuickQuid acted 
unfairly.
the sale of Loan 2
Mr M repaid Loan 1 on 15 September 2017. He took Loan 2 on 16 October. This time he 
was borrowing £600 (50% more than hed borrowed for Loan 1). He was due to repay £144 
on 15 November, £144 on 15 December and £749  on 15 January 2018.
QuickQuid told us that Mr M was able to successfully pay off loan 1 in full without 
accumulating any late charges  on the account, which does not raise  any red flags  to lending  
to him again . But Mr M hadnt repaid Loan 1 in line with the agreement.  He eventually 
repaid Loan 1 in full on 15 September  two months  later than originally  scheduled. Whilst I 
accept that Mr M didnt incur any late charges, I'm not persuaded its correct to describe his 
repayment of Loan  1 as successful. He did repay it, but he did so two months later than 
initially agreed and having paid £177 more in interest.  
QuickQuid also points  out that there was a gap of 31 days between  Mr M repaying  Loan 1 
and taking Loan 2. It adds  that this does not show that he was very dependent  on our 
loans. Prior  to that 31 day gap, Mr M had been  in debt to QuickQuid for five months  - which 
as I've mentioned was two months longer than the previous credit agreement  envisaged 
because hed extended Loan  1. And this time Mr M was applying for a higher loan - £600.
QuickQuid provided  Loan  2 to Mr M in the circumstances  Ive outlined. It carried out the 
same level of checks it had for Loan 1. But given those circumstances, I think  QuickQuid 
shouldve done  significantly  more to satisfy itself about the sustainability  of this loan for 
Mr M. 
QuickQuid says that Mr M once again  declared that his income was £1,900 per month and 
that his outgoings amounted to £825 (a declared  disposable income of £1,075). So he told 
QuickQuid that nothing had changed.  QuickQuid - having used its other  validation  tools - 
estimated Mr Ms disposable  income to be £907. This is considerably higher that the EDI 
QuickQuid had calculated  at the point  he took Loan  1 in May.  Then  it had been £518.  It 
seems that QuickQuid now calculated that Mr M now had almost  twice the disposable 
income hed previously had, despite  having been unable  to repay Loan 1 as agreed in July 
and only having  finished repaying Loan  1 the month  before. And here he was again  this 
time borrowing more.
There has been some question about  whether Mr M completed a fresh income and 
expenditure form. And I think there  has been  some conflicting information  from QuickQuid on 
this point.
Ref: DRN80105809But that aside  the fact remains that Mr M declared that he had £250  of monthly  other credit 
commitments in May 2017. And in October,  he either inserted that figure again into a form 
or ticked to confirm nothing had changed.  But QuickQuids own validation  tools  showed  that 
something must have  changed. Indeed, in its the response to my second provisional  
decision it says that the CRA report it obtained  showed that his other  credit  commitments 
amounted to £557 which it took into account by proportionally adjusting  his estimated other 
credit commitment upwards from Mr Ms declared  other credit commitment  which  he claimed 
were £250 . 
QuickQuid claims  that by taking all the information it had led to a conclusion  that the total 
repayment of £1,037  (all the repayments added together) was significantly under the 80% 
threshold relative to the total EDI estimated over the same period. So QuickQuid concludes 
that the loan was affordable. I think its important  to note here that this 80% figure is 
QuickQuids own criteria for lending. It was QuickQuids commercial  decision to have this 
line in the sand for its lending decision.  But the fact that its own lending  criteria were met for 
a particular loan didnt necessarily mean that the borrower taking that loan could afford to 
repay it sustainably. 
I also mentioned in my second provisional decision that I was concerned that QuickQuid 
appeared not to have followed its own procedures where, if there  are material discrepancies,  
or if there are reasons  to question the information provided by the customer  and/or credit 
report, it asks the customer  for additional  information such as bank statements in order to 
conduct further validation. 
It seems  that the monthly credit commitment  figure  declared by Mr M was not a wholly 
accurate one. QuickQuid  knew  that. And according to its response  to my first provisional 
decision it asked Mr M for his bank statements but he refused. However in the response to 
my second  provisional  decision  it says Mr Ms application didnt fall within the terms of its 
policy for requiring  bank  statements.  So its unclear  whether  QuickQuid asked for Mr Ms 
bank statement or not. 
QuickQuid says that I have discounted  the reliability of CRA  reports  and that I dismissed 
data from the ONS. It adds that both sources are cited in CONC as valid sources of 
information. I dont  agree that ONS data is specifically referenced in CONC. But in any 
event, this is what I actually said in my second  provisional decision:
I accept that CRA reports may be helpful when undertaking the creditworthiness  
assessment. Indeed in cases where  we have been provided with them,  we may take them 
into account  when considering a complaint such as Mr Ms. But the information  they are able 
to provide is limited; for example they dont provide  information about a consumers normal  
monthly outgoings. 
ONS data may also be helpful in comparing a consumers declared  spending with the 
average figures ascertained  by the ONS. But they are only average figures  and not specific to 
individuals. Tools  such as ONS data may be helpful to some extent but QuickQuid had to 
keep in mind  that it was assessing whether  to provide  a loan specifically  to Mr M.  
QuickQuid tells me that the FCA was expressly informed that [QuickQuid] would be relying  
on this type of information and the FCA did not raise any objections to the same, or suggest 
that, for example, they could not be used as primary sources of information. 
Ref: DRN801058010But I wouldnt have expected the regulator to specify what could or couldnt be used as 
sources of information.  Indeed CONC 5.2.4(3) was fairly loose in its description of what 
sources of information  could be used in an assessment  depending on the circumstances:
 A firm should consider the types and sources of information to use in
its creditworthiness assessment and assessment required by
CONC 5.2.2R (1), which may, depending on the circumstances, include
some or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
(f) information provided by the customer. 
QuickQuid may well have  told the FCA that it intended using ONS data. Both ONS  and CRA 
data may be useful when  being used by a firm such as QuickQuid in carrying  out their pre-
lending assessments. But the regulations were  clear: QuickQuid had to do a proportionate 
check in the circumstances of Mr Ms specific application. 
I have never  said QuickQuid shouldve obtained Mr Ms bank statements before it lent to 
him. I have  explained that I have his statements and that I have used them to help me 
understand Mr Ms position   so far as his short term credit commitments  were concerned   
because those commitments are what I think QuickQuid shouldve clearly  understood before 
it provided Loan 2. But for the reasons outlined above Im not persuaded that QuickQuid has 
shown me that it did have  a clear picture  of Mr Ms short term credit commitments.  
As I said in my second  provisional decision,  it is not for me to prescribe the sources  of 
information to be used by a lender when undertaking its assessment  an assessment which  
has to be proportionate to the factors outlined in CONC (the list of factors is mentioned 
earlier in this decision). 
Bank statements are helpful  in that they often provide an overview  of a borrowers financial 
situation. They can show evidence  of both the borrowers income and expenditure. A sense 
that a consumer may have financial difficulties can be obtained from a quick  glimpse;  is the 
borrower very overdrawn and paying large sums in overdraft charges? Are direct debits 
being returned unpaid? Is the consumer gambling significant proportions  of their income? Is 
the consumer  vulnerable  in some other way? Or, is the consumer borrowing from multiple  
payday lenders?  
I have never  suggested  that QuickQuid needed to verify all Mr Ms income and expenses. 
My decision  about the sale of Loan 2 turns on the fact that QuickQuid hasnt persuaded me 
that it did enough to confirm Mr Ms situation  as regards - specifically  - his short  term credit  
liabilities. And the circumstances were such - including his previous  borrowing (and 
repaying) history, the sums involved and the discrepancies  in his declared credit 
commitments -  that  QuickQuid  shouldve done  more than its shown me in relation to that 
particular aspect of his financial situation. If it had done more, it wouldve seen that it was 
unfair to provide Loan 2.
Ref: DRN801058011When I issued my first provisional  decision  I referred to Mr Ms bank statements  so far as 
they gave me some  insight into his short term credit commitments around the time of Loan 2. 
QuickQuid was unhappy that I hadnt provided  copies of the statements. So when I sent out 
my second  provisional  decision  I also sent to QuickQuid some redacted  copies of Mr Ms 
bank statements. All transactions  apart  from those  with other  short-term  lenders were 
deleted. This is because  I wasnt  making  reference  to anything other than those in my 
decision. 
QuickQuid remains dissatisfied  and wants Mr Ms complete bank statements  with nothing 
blacked out. I want to reassure  QuickQuid  that I didnt come  to a conclusion  about Mr Ms 
complaint and then select  those parts which support the provisional decision. To be clear I 
have reviewed the evidence available to help me reach  a fair and reasonable decision in all 
the circumstances. 
I thought about  the information I had to help me decide whether  QuickQuid  had done  
enough and then considered whether  if it had it done everything right, it would  still have 
provided Loan 2. This is why I have never looked  at Mr Ms bank statements from the time 
he took Loan 1. I have  explained above that overall  I dont think QuickQuid was wrong to 
provide Loan 1 to Mr M in light of the information it had  when it provided that loan. I 
suppose its possible that a closer inspection of Mr Ms banks statements from May 2017 
could show that he was in dire financial  straits. But as I think  QuickQuid did enough at that 
stage, for that loan,  there  is no need for me to look further into his actual financial situation.
QuickQuid adds it is possible that there is information which has been  redacted  which may 
be relevant to the representations that [QuickQuid] wishes to make  to the provisional 
decision.  But it seems  to me that QuickQuid hasnt been specific  about what  it wishes  to 
check on Mr Ms bank  statements.  And without knowing this, it doesnt  feel right to 
automatically offer up a considerable  amount of Mr Ms personal information which  so far 
as I can see - is not relevant to the issue in hand.  
Ive thought carefully about disclosing Mr Ms unredacted bank statements. And I asked 
Mr M for his views.  He has told me why he doesnt think I should share his full bank 
statements with QuickQuid. He added that he had provided the statements to this Service to 
allow us to assess his complaint  impartially  and that he had already provided everything 
QuickQuid had ever requested. 
The findings  I have  made from Mr Ms banks  statements and which  I have previously 
explained in my provisional decisions  are these: Mr M was borrowing regularly, significant  
sums from other  short  term lenders at the time he took Loan 2. More specifically on the day 
he took Loan 2 he repaid other lenders  almost  £800. In the month prior to taking Loan 2 
Mr M had borrowed around £1,600 by way of six other short term loans  (some  of which were 
instalment loans)  which were due to be repaid in the period after he took Loan  2. I concluded 
then and remain of the view that had QuickQuid done proportionate checks  prior to providing  
Loan 2 it wouldve been aware  of these other short-term commitments and declined  Mr Ms 
application.
By disclosing the redacted copies of Mr Ms banks statements to QuickQuid Ive shown it the 
evidence Ive relied on  the basis for my conclusions. 
Ref: DRN801058012The unredacted statements contain a lot of information about Mr M  how much he earned, 
who he was employed  by, how he spent each month and so on. But the only things in those  
statements which are relevant to my decision - his short-term lending transactions  - have 
been left unredacted and disclosed to QuickQuid. This is because my decision is based on a 
relatively narrow failing on the part of QuickQuid:  it didnt do enough  to satisfy itself about  
Mr Ms short-term  credit  commitments when assessing whether hed be able to sustainably  
afford to repay Loan 2.  As such QuickQuid doesnt need to see all the transactions  on the 
statements. So Ive decided not to disclose them to QuickQuid.  
As QuickQuid has had sight of Mr Ms redacted  bank statements it has provided some 
comments about what they contain.  It says:
(1) [QuickQuid] assessed Mr Ms application on or around 16 October 2017 i.e. the
proportionality of the checks carried out by [QuickQuid] at that time,  cannot be judged by 
reference to events  that took place  after 15 October 2017. As such, the statement  at p5 of the 
Second PD which appears to rely on events that took place on 16 October 2017 should  be 
ignored, as these events post-dated [QuickQuids] assessment;
I accept that borrowing from other  lenders after 16 October is not something which should be 
taken into account.  And I havent ever referred  to further loans Mr M did or didnt take from 
other lenders after he took Loan 2. But I think its highly relevant to look at what Mr M repaid  
to other  lenders  on the day he took Loan  2 and shortly thereafter. Those debts were 
outstanding whilst he was applying for Loan 2. And, in my opinion  it shows  that he was 
effectively borrowing from QuickQuid to repay  those other  loans or to make up the 
immediate shortfall in his finances these loans left - an unsustainable situation.  More 
specifically, later that day - after the deposit of £600  from QuickQuid was received into his 
account -  Mr M made six payments to three  different  short-  term loan providers (three were 
to Lender A, two to Lender  B and one to Lender C). These amounted  to £782.82.
QuickQuid continues:
(2) As the redacted bank statement  show,  during the period 1  15 October 2017, Mr M 
received a £400 sum from [Lender A] on 2 October 2017, and a further £100 on 4 October 
2017. He repaid  £103.20 to [Lender  A] on 2 October 2017.
(3) Accordingly, even if [QuickQuid]  had asked to see Mr Ms bank  statement for 1-15 
October 2017 it would not have made a material  difference  to the outcome, because the 
information in the statement is not inconsistent with the figures obtained  by [QuickQuid];
Once again, my argument is not about QuickQuid obtaining bank statements but about  what  
it wouldve  discovered had it done  proportionate  checks. And in any event based on what 
QuickQuid highlights here, Mr M borrowed £500 from Lender A at the start of October  and 
repaid £103.20.  Its unlikely  that the repayment  related to either of those two loans. So - from 
the loans he took at the start of October - Mr M owed £500  plus the interest to Lender A by 
the time he was applying  for Loan  2.
Ref: DRN801058013But Mr M wasnt taking loans only from Lender A. I accept that in early October it does not 
seem that he borrowed from anyone else.  But on 25 September  he borrowed £162 from 
Lender B, on 26 September he borrowed £100  from Lender A and on 27 September he 
borrowed again from Lender B - £74.64. So in the last week  of September  it seems  Mr M 
borrowed £336.64  and the only repayment  made  was to Lender A on 2 October of £103.20 
until after Loan  2 had been deposited  into his account on 16 October  when Mr M made 
multiple repayments to three lenders. This means that Mr M owed principal sums of over 
£733 to Lenders  A and B which on my rough calculations means that with interest its likely 
that the amount he owed was probably  between £800 and £900 at the time he applied  for 
Loan 2. This is somewhat different to the £557  figure QuickQuid says it obtained through 
CRA data as his other credit commitments. 
So I disagree that the October 2017 statements are irrelevant. They provide a lot of insight 
into Mr Ms short-term  credit commitments at the time he took Loan 2. And this is evident to 
QuickQuid even in the redacted statements Ive provided.
QuickQuid then turns its attention to the September statements. It points  out that in my 
second provisional decision I had said that Mr M was borrowing regularly, significant  sums 
from other short-term lenders. It points out that on 14 September Mr M borrowed £50 and 
asks why I would consider  this significant? I accept that not all of Mr Ms loans were for high 
amounts individually, but I think  that the £780  borrowed  from Lender B on 21 September  
was a significant amount  as was the previously mentioned  £400  borrowed from Lender A 
on 2 October. And taken together the amounts borrowed  were significant. 
Ive explained  above why Im not persuaded that QuickQuid did enough when it carried  out 
its assessment and I think that the information I've identified (and shared with QuickQuid) 
from the bank statements  supports my conclusions. 
Had QuickQuid done proportionate checks it wouldve  seen that Mr M was borrowing 
regularly - and some  of the loans were for significant  sums - from other  short-term  lenders. 
At the time he applied for Loan 2 there were large  amounts of credit outstanding to those 
other short-term lenders.  In those circumstances it was unlikely that Mr M would be able to 
make all repayments on Loan 2 as they fell due over the life of the agreement,  in a 
sustainable manner.
Taking everything together, Im satisfied that Mr Ms complaint about  the sale of Loan 2 
should be upheld.
Ref: DRN801058014putting things right
I understand that very recently QuickQuid wrote to Mr M to tell him that it had written off the 
whole of the outstanding  balance he owed on Loan 2. Part of this balance  included capital 
which had not been repaid. Our normal approach  is to allow businesses to offset any refund 
we award against  any outstanding capital balance. I see no reason to change our approach  
in this case. And so it seems unlikely that Mr M will receive any compensation from 
QuickQuid. However to avoid any confusion, this is what I require CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid  to do to put things  right:
A. It should calculate  how much Mr M paid when he made the two payments in 
respect of Loan 1 in July and August 2017  and add to each of those sums 8%* 
simple interest a year, from the date Mr M paid each one to the date the refund is 
paid to him: and
B. It should remove all interest and charges  applied  to Loan 2 and apply any 
payments made by Mr M on this loan as though  they were against  the principal 
borrowed. Once this is done  it will provide a figure which will represent the 
outstanding principal balance at the time the debt was written off.
QuickQuid may then deduct the amount calculated in A from the outstanding  
principal balance calculated at B. If there is any money remaining after that, it 
should be paid to Mr M.
C. It should remove any adverse entries relating to these loans from Mr Ms credit 
file.
* HMC Revenue & Customs requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Mr M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My understanding is that no cash refund will be repayable to Mr M because the refund 
calculated at A is likely to be smaller  than the amount  he owes (B).  And in any event  
QuickQuid has already written off his outstanding balance.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I uphold Mr Ms complaint  about  CashEuroNet UK LLC in 
part and require  it to put things right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8010580