K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold him an account with an overdraft 
facility, wrongly increased his overdraft limit twice, and failed to send him bank statements 
and call recordings when he requested them.
background
In November 2014 Mr P opened a student  account with the Co-op. It initially  had an 
overdraft limit of £1,400.  This was increased  to £1,700  in October 2015, and to £2,000 in 
October 2016. He complains that proper affordability checks were not carried  out, and he 
says that if they had been then the Co-op  would  have seen that hed been taking payday 
loans. He says the Co-op lent to him irresponsibly, and he could not afford it.
Mr P also complains that when the Co-op  sent him some  bank  statements hed requested, 
some pages  were missing, and it took the Co-op  a long time to finally send him the missing  
pages  about three  months.  He says that the Co-op also took a long time to send him some  
call recordings  hed asked for. The Co-op  apologised for these  issues  and paid him £180.
However, the Co-op did not agree that it had lent to Mr P irresponsibly. It said it did 
proportionate checks. The student  overdraft was interest-free until a year after graduation. 
Mr P had asked for both of the limit increases. Payday loans were not necessarily a reason 
to refuse  an overdraft or a limit increase. For these same reasons, our adjudicator  did not 
uphold this complaint.  He thought that the compensation  paid for the other issues was fair.
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision, and so this complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I do not agree that the original overdraft was unaffordable, or that the Co-op offered it to 
Mr P irresponsibly. The student  overdraft was to be free of interest  and free of fees for the 
next four years (it was later extended by a year). Mr P was not expected to begin paying it 
back until after he graduated and got a job. An interest-free overdraft is clearly easier to 
afford than a payday loan, so Mr P was better  off with this form of lending than he would  
have been if he had relied entirely on payday loans  instead. I would expect the overdraft to 
reduce the need for payday loans.
The fact that some other banks declined Mr Ps applications for a student account  does not 
mean that the Co-op was wrong to grant it. Each bank  is free to set its own lending  criteria 
and to choose its own appetite for risk. The important thing is that the decision to lend is 
informed by proportionate creditworthiness checks.  Given that the cost of credit  was nil and 
that Mr P had four years to pay it back before  it incurred  interest,  I think  that the check did 
not need to be an onerous  one. The Co-op carried out a check, and decided to give Mr P a 
student account. £1,400  was the normal  starting  overdraft for this kind of account at the time.
I agree  with Mr Ps argument that just because he requested both of the overdraft limit 
increases does not absolve the Co-op  of its duty as a lender to lend responsibly. So I have 
considered both of the banks decisions to increase Mr Ps overdraft limit.
Ref: DRN80609302Mr P has argued that he was not eligible for a limit increase,  under the accounts terms and 
conditions, because his income was not being  paid directly  into his Co-op account. Instead,  
it was being paid into another bank account,  and Mr P was then forwarding that money to his 
Co-op account. I think that is a distinction without  a real difference,  and I dont think  there is 
any merit in that argument. The essential  point is that money was being  paid into the 
account.
After opening  the account, Mr P only had one payday loan before the first overdraft limit 
increase. The payday loan was in May 2015, and the limit increase  was five months later. 
That does not seem to be a good reason to decline the limit increase. At the time of the 
increase, the account was in credit.
After that, there were another seven payday  loans until the second limit increase. 
Nevertheless, the Co-op checked Mr Ps credit score, and checked for adverse data on his 
credit file. There were no missed payments, defaults, or county court  judgements recorded 
against him. He was still paying money into the account. So the Co-op concluded  that Mr P 
passed its lending  criteria  and could afford  the increase. 
At the time of the second increase, the account  balance exceeded the old overdraft limit by 
£4.66. That has given  me some  pause for thought,  as exceeding the limit is a potential 
indicator of poor account management and financial difficulty. So I have thought about 
whether this means the Co-op  was wrong  to increase Mr Ps overdraft limit again.
The amount  of the excess was very small, and the account was only in an unarranged 
overdraft for a short time  one week. Taken on its own, I could ignore it. However,  the 
account was also in an unarranged overdraft on seven other occasions after the first limit 
increase, as well as on seven occasions  before the first increase. That means that roughly 
every other month (on average),  Mr P exceeded his overdraft limit. That is something I would 
expect a lender  to take into account, and to weigh in the balance  against further lending.
On the other hand, on each occasion  that this happened, the account was brought  back 
within the overdraft  limit again shortly afterwards, almost always  within just a few days. 
There was one occasion (in June 2016) when it took Mr P three  weeks to do this, but then 
the entire overdraft  (authorised as well as unauthorised) was paid off in full. On 14 of the 15 
times that this happened, the excess was less than £25, including  the time in June 2016. 
The largest excess was £61.32, for six days in December 2014 and January 2015, shortly  
after the account was opened  and nearly  ten months before the first limit increase. The total 
amount of time that the account  balance exceeded  the overdraft limit between the account 
being opened and the second limit increase was 80 days, in a period of nearly  two years.  
The account  was usually well within  the agreed  limit, and was often in credit. So looking at 
the accounts history  overall, on balance I dont think this was so bad that it ought to have 
deterred further lending.
I also think that the Co-ops lending decisions are vindicated by the fact that in a phone  call 
on 29 January 2019, Mr P specifically denied that he had ever been in financial difficulty.
That is another reason not to uphold this complaint. Even if I took the view that the Co-op 
had lent to Mr P irresponsibly, if that lending actually  had no adverse impact on Mr Ps 
finances then he would  not have  suffered  any loss or inconvenience  as a result, and so there 
would be nothing to compensate him for.
Ref: DRN80609303Finally, I agree with our adjudicator that £180  is fair compensation for the delays in sending 
the missing pages  of bank statements and call recordings.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8060930