K821x#15complaint
Mr C's complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  his central heating insurance policy
with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in February 2020, part of which is copied 
below: 
Mr C made a claim under his policy as the water tank in the loft of a property he lets out was
leaking. British  Gas said that it would install new water  tanks.  Its contractors attended and
carried out the work, however while doing so they apparently moved  the old tank,  which
Mr C says caused a further  water  leak and damage  to the property. Mr C says the old tank
was not meant to be moved at all and the new tanks were meant to be installed in a different
part of the loft.
Mr C asked British Gas to remove the old tank from the loft space and fix the insulation,
which had been  taken up while the work was carried out (Mr C says the insulation material
had been squashed by British Gas and so has lost some  of its "U value", i.e. its insulating
properties); and put the loft space  back into the condition it had been in before British  Gas
did this work.
British Gas denied  responsibility for any further water damage to Mr C's home.  It said this
was all the result of the initial  water leak, which led to the claim in the first place. It said its
contractors did move the old tank to one side, so the new tanks could be installed in the
same place, as was agreed with Mr C. It says they drained  the old tank down so it was
empty before  moving it. British Gas says the contractors then discussed with Mr C that it
would be best to leave it in the loft, as it was corroded and might fall apart if they tried to
move it and also if it needed to be cut up to get it through the loft hatch, it would cause a fire
risk to use electric cutters in the loft.
Despite denying responsibility, British Gas agreed  to repair  the damage anyway. I
understand this work has been  done.  It also agreed  to remove  the tank but only if Mr C
signed a disclaimer  in respect  of any further damage that might be done while  removing it.
I understand it repaired the water damage  to a ceiling and this is settled but Mr C did not
agree to sign the disclaimer. Mr C still wanted the old water  tank removed; the loft restored
to its previous condition;  and compensation for the way the claim has been handled.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He recommended  that it be upheld.
He considered it likely that the old water tank wasn't supposed to be moved,  given the
respective positions  of the tanks. He also noted  that British Gas had offered in an email in
October 2018 to remove the old tank and put back the misplaced/damaged  insulation.
The investigator didn't  think  this was fair to require Mr C to sign the disclaimer. The 
investigator also thought that British Gas should pay the sum of £200 compensation for
the trouble cased by its handling of the claim.
British Gas didn't  respond to the investigator's  assessment.
Mr C did respond and has asked  for more  compensation. He also confirmed that he got his 
own contractor to remove the tank from the loft at a cost of £130  and replaced  the insulation
himself, as it needed to be completed  before a new tenant could move in.
Ref: DRN81140682Mr C has asked that British Gas pay him the cost of the tank removal  and £1,000
compensation for: his wasted time on visits to the property, organising the work,  contacting
British Gas and the contractors; writing letters and statements; the period of time he could
not let the property; and ultimately  having  to do the work himself  after he had had surgery,
as he could not leave the property unlet any longer. Mr C has also asked for half the cost of
fully reinsulating the loft (he said removing the insulation would cost £450  and, laying new
insulation £650), and also a refund of the year's premiums  for the policy, £456.
Mr C also says that he thinks  the ongoing problems  were one of the reasons the tenant
moved out, as she didn't want contractors coming  and going.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. In the
meantime, Mr C has made a second  complaint to British Gas because the new water  tanks
started leaking in October 2019 and caused damage  to the property.  This will have to be
dealt with separately and I can't address this new issue in this decision.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's difficult to know what was agreed  before  this work was started. It might well be that the
old tank was not going  to be moved. However, it was and it seems  to me that part of the job
would include removing  the item that has been  replaced. I note also that British Gas had
agreed to do so. I therefore  consider  that British Gas should  reimburse  the £130 Mr C paid
to have the tank removed.
There would  naturally have been  some disturbance to the installation while the contractors
worked in the loft and made  way for the new tanks  and removed the old one. Mr C says this
affected the insulating properties  of the insulation  and he would therefore  need to remove all
the old insulation  and put new insulation in. He says he was told this would cost around
£1,000 in total. He then confirmed he had re-laid the insulation himself. Mr C has provided
some photos  of the insulation he removed and some  of an area inside the loft showing
insulation which has bene pushed aside and piled up.
British Gas's contractors  should have repositioned any insulation  they moved  and made 
good the loft space after it fitted  the new tanks.  However, there is no independent evidence  
that the existing  insulation  is no longer effective or that it needed entirely replacing. Even if 
there were, British Gas would only be responsible  for the cost of rectifying this, if it had been 
done negligently. I do not therefore consider there  is enough evidence  to require me to make
British Gas pay towards this.
Mr C has also asked for a refund of the policy premiums as the policy did not provide him
with the support he was expecting. I am not persuaded  this is reasonable. Mr C made  a
claim under the policy which was met. He is disappointed with aspects of the claims-
handling but that does  not mean the premiums  should be refunded, as he did receive the
benefit of cover in return for the premiums paid, so I am not going  to ask British  Gas to
refund them.
Mr C says this matter  probably led to his previous  tenant moving  out and a delay in being
able to re-let the property.  There  is no independent convincing evidence  of this. It might  well
Ref: DRN81140683have been annoying for his previous tenant to accommodate  repair  visits but there's no
convincing evidence this led her to leave; or, more importantly, that this resulted in a
financial loss to Mr C. He says there  was also a delay in being  able to re-let the property.
While I agree British Gas should have removed the old tank, the fact this was still in the loft
and some insulation  needed repositioning, would not in itself prevent a tenant moving in. I do
not consider that any claim for loss of rent has been  proven.
However, I do agree that some compensation is warranted for the trouble caused by the
handling of this matter, to include  the inconvenience  to Mr C of having to reposition  the
insulation himself and arrange the removal of the tank himself, so that this was completed
before a new tenant moved in. I consider the £200  recommended by the investigator to be
reasonable.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this decision against  British Gas Insurance Limited and require it to do the
following:
 reimburse Mr C the cost of removing the water  tank of £130,  together  with interest 
at 8% simple per annum from the date he paid for this to the date of reimbursement;  
and
 pay him £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by the 
handling of this matter.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Neither party has responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new evidence  or arguments have been provided, I see no reason  to change my 
provisional findings on this matter. I remain  of the opinion that the cost of removing the old 
tank should be reimbursed, with interest,  and British Gas should  also pay £200 
compensation. 
Ref: DRN81140684my final decision
I uphold this decision against British Gas Insurance Limited and require it to do the
following:
 reimburse Mr C the cost of removing the water  tank of £130,  together  with interest at 8%
simple per annum from the date he paid for this to the date of reimbursement; and
 pay him £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by the handling
of this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I'm required to ask Mr C to accept or
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8114068