K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
I see Mr and Mrs C have complained about  two other  very similar  financial products,  taken  
out in 1998 and 1999. These other  complaints are being dealt  with separately and as I write,  
I note the 1999  case  has since been  resolved.  
So to be clear, this decision is about  their 2004 unsecured loan for £5,500.  Mr and Mrs C 
bought the PPI policy at the same  time as taking out the loan.  It seems  they applied for the 
loan and PPI policy over the telephone.  Although this was a joint-loan, only Mr C was 
covered by the PPI  Mrs C wasnt named on the policy. Im therefore going to refer 
occasionally to Mr C only.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £788.50  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 60-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan The monthly 
loan repayment  was £107.62  with the PPI costing  an additional £15.43 making  the total 
monthly repayment £123.05.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay the monthly loan repayment  for up to 60 
months (or the remaining term thereof) in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 
months in the event  of unemployment. At the time,  Mr C was employed in the financial 
sector. 
The company representing Mr and Mrs C told us Mr C was entitled  to 12 months  full sick pay 
with his job and that he also had some  savings, death in service protection and various life 
policies, although  Ive not seen evidence of these. Its my experience that such  generous 
sick pay provision is seldom found  outside  only a few specific  professions. Nevertheless, Ive 
considered all Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances with great care when deciding  their complaint.
We were told Mr C suffered a slipped disc in the 1980s and depression,  caused by his then 
job, in 1989 and 1992. However, I note these medical  conditions  pre-date this PPI sale by 
some years and I explain more about this later. Nationwide has sent us information that this 
loan account ended  completely in 2007.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative made lengthy and substantial representations on their behalf. 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, the representative  says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN80421162The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr C about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr C and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr C received about his policy was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN80421163There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr C, the policyholder, with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, 
given his needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN80421164Having very carefully  considered the above  and all the information provided  by both Mr and 
Mrs C and Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  the complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional and I think  it did this. 
My experience of sales like this one is that there would have been an initial  discussion over 
the telephone where  the terms  were  verbally  agreed. Further to this, Mr and Mrs C were  sent 
a credit agreement which  I note they both signed  and dated  as 6 March  2004. The 
agreement they both signed  said the PPI was optional credit insurance and I think its very 
reasonable to conclude  that the optional nature  and the cost  was put to them  during  the 
initial call. I think the evidence is clear enough  that they agreed to the PPI and the relevant  
forms were drawn up for them to read.  
So, the agreement  they were sent set out the optional nature of the PPI and also the costs,  
and taking everything into account, I think  there is strong and reliable  evidence  here that Mr 
and Mrs C knew the policy was something they had a choice about. I think they agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this PPI sale. This corresponds  with my 
knowledge and experience of these particular sales and it means Nationwide didnt have to 
check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs C. Instead, it had to give them  sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an informed choice  about  
whether to take out the policy, including drawing to attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair 
and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect the loan payments 
if Mr C was unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.) I have reached 
this conclusion because  there was information  to that effect  on the documents  he and Mrs C 
signed. I also think its unlikely Mr C would  have taken out the policy  without any sense of 
what the policy was. In my view,  they could easily see that the single premium being added  
to the loan was £788.50  and the interest  added to the premium was £137.30;  the total cost 
was £925.80 and the PPI monthly cost was £15.43. 
The information was therefore sufficiently clear  on the loan agreement they both signed.  
However, the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Nationwide  gave 
sufficient information  about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs C agreed  to take 
out the policy. So I cant say Nationwide gave  sufficient,  appropriate  and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN80421165Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like this one. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what the representative considers to be poor value 
 and the fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by the representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that Nationwide ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have? To what extent did Mr and Mrs C 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr C. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr C 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr C 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr C says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs C had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if he didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  As Ive found above, Mr C chose to take this policy 
out. So I consider  that its reasonable to conclude he had some  interest  in the benefits  
offered by this type of insurance. But he possibly made this decision based on incomplete 
information. So what Mr C thought he was getting  may not have been exactly  what he got. 
The extent  to which this differed is a relevant consideration when determining  if Mr and Mrs 
C suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information given about  the cost and/or benefit  was clear enough. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  or exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. Possibly  the most significant differences between  
what Mr C thought he had bought  and what he actually  bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN80421166The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition  or disease which was 
known of, or should have been reasonably known of, on the start date. Or any 
medical condition  or disease for which treatment  was received, advice was given or 
where the person was referred  for investigation  during the 12 months before the start 
date and which recurred within 12 months;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr C repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr C to have done so.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr C pause for thought  and may well have caused  Mr and Mrs C to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and so they might have decided  not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking 
out the policy. 
However, the evidence  Ive seen about  Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. I think  he was eligible for many  
of its benefits and the PPI provided cover  that, despite its limitations and exclusions relating 
to illness, could have  proved valuable  to him should the insured risks have become a reality. 
As Ive acknowledged, Mr C did have some  pre-existing medical conditions as defined by the 
policy rules.  However, the illnesses  he mentioned  pre-date this sale by 17, 15 and 12 years  
respectively. So, whilst I completely accept  these medical conditions  would once have  been  
a significant concern for Mr C, by 2004 many years had since  passed. 
The information submitted to me relating to the medical issues offer no indication that by 
2004 they were  still prominent ones. Essentially, Ive seen nothing which indicates Mr C  by 
2004  would have thought claiming on a PPI policy for the slipped  disc or the depression,  
would still have been likely, given how long ago these things had occurred. He was also in 
permanent employment.  I therefore think he had some good reasons  to take this particular 
policy out, given  it was now 2004.
Consequently, the conclusion Ive come to about  the medical aspects of this complaint is 
this: whilst previous sales  of PPI occurred  in 1998  and 1999  - and its possible these might 
not have been right for him - I think that by 2004  a sufficient  period  had elapsed  to 
reconsider whether  Mr C was likely  to think claiming for either previous illness  was a 
possibility. I think its reasonable to judge whether Mr Cs health had sufficiently recovered to 
the extent that the other aspects of the PPI (such as the unemployment  and other medical 
protection) were of so much interest  to him, that he concluded it was something  he wanted 
to have. 
As Ive said,  Mr C is represented by a claims management company in this matter, and it 
provided no evidence  (relating to the 2004  sale) which  shows  that either  illness would have 
likely dissuaded him from taking out a type of loan protection  he otherwise would have 
wanted to have. In short,  I think the evidence shows in this case that Mr C specifically 
wanted this type of cover. I think hed discussed it and had probably concluded it was now 
right for him  even if Nationwide failed to explain everything as it ought  to have done.
Ref: DRN80421167Likewise, although  Mr C may have had some  work-benefits in relation to death in service   
although Ive seen no evidence of this  this would have covered a different eventuality as 
PPI is broadly aimed at losing ones job or becoming  too ill to work.
If Mr C had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr C was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Although an exact  pro-rata refund would not have  been paid if he cancelled the policy early,  
the loan period was relatively short and there is nothing to suggest that Mr C had plans to 
repay the loan early.  The purpose of the loan was not debt consolidation or anything else 
which might  suggest a need to repay  the loan early, or that this was likely  to happen.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr C made redundant, or unable  to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr C would  have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
The representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP App 3) make it 
clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer  
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN80421168Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. That is because, while I accept its possible  he wouldnt have taken out 
the policy, Im satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still 
have taken out the PPI had he been  given  clear, fair and not misleading  information about 
the policy he was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr C compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr C thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr C, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  negligently  misrepresented the contract  and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 August  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8042116