K821x#15complaint
Mrs O complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited  (H&T) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Mrs O was given a single loan by H&T. She borrowed £500 in July 2017 and agreed  to 
repay the loan in 20 four weekly  instalments. Mrs O has fallen behind  with her repayments 
and a balance  still remained  outstanding  on the loan when she made her complaint.
Mrs Os complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She thought that the 
information H&T received  from its credit  check should have caused  some concerns to the 
lender and led to more  extensive checks. And she thought better checks would have shown 
the lender that Mrs O was facing serious problems managing her money. So our adjudicator  
thought the complaint should  be upheld and asked H&T to pay Mrs O some compensation.
H&T didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs O accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mrs O 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN81696212I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H&T was required to establish 
whether Mrs O could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Os complaint.
H&T did some checks before it lent to Mrs O. It asked her for details of her income, and her 
normal expenditure. And it checked  her credit  file before agreeing  the loans. Ill comment  a 
bit more about the results of those checks later in this decision.
Mrs Os loan was repayable over a period  of around 18 months. So the amounts that Mrs O 
needed to repay each  time were smaller than if shed taken a normal payday loan. But of 
course she was committing to making those repayments over a far longer period.
Given the length of that repayment period I dont think  the checks  that H&T did were 
sufficient. I think it would have been  proportionate,  notwithstanding the results of the credit 
check that I will refer to next, for H&T to have gathered  evidence  to provide an independent 
assessment of Mrs Os true financial position before agreeing this loan.
The credit check results  that H&T has shared with us do not show that Mrs O was in a stable 
financial position. The results show that she had a significant number of open credit 
accounts. And they show that Mrs O had faced a number  of problems over the past year in 
meeting her repayment  commitments on some of those accounts. I think  these results too 
should have led H&T to look to perform  an independent  assessment  of Mrs Os finances.
Ive looked at copies of Mrs Os bank statements from the time, and a fuller copy  of her 
credit file, to see what better  checks would  have shown H&T. From those it is clear that 
Mrs O had been facing  significant problems managing  her money  for some time. She was 
borrowing heavily from other lenders. And she had a large number of accounts that had 
either already been defaulted or were in arrears and likely to default  in the future. I dont 
think, having seen that information, a responsible lender would have concluded that it was 
likely Mrs O could  meet repayments for an extended period in a sustainable manner.  So 
I dont think H&T should have agreed to give Mrs O this loan.
Ref: DRN81696213putting things right
I dont think H&T should have agreed to lend to Mrs O in July 2017. So H&T should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat any payments 
Mrs O has made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mrs Os loan account  as Ive directed  results  in Mrs O effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then H&T should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mrs Os loan account  leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind H&T that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs O for the revised balance.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Os credit file in relation to the loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to take off tax from this interest. H&T must give 
Mrs O a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Os complaint and direct Harvey  & Thompson Limited 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8169621