K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mrs C between  
November 2017  and August 2018.  Details of these  four loans are as follows:
Loan Taken Repaid Instalments Amount Highest repayment
1 13/11/2017 29/11/2017 4 £300 £180.60
2 05/02/2018 14/02/2018 4 £490 £208.06
3 15/02/2018 30/08/2018 9 £1000 £363.11
4 31/08/2018 outstanding 12 £1000 £211.05
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Cs complaint in part and thought  loans three and four shouldnt  
have been given. Mr Lender didnt agree and so the complaint was passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN80050502I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Mr Lender asked Mrs C for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. For the first two loans, I cant see that there  was anything untoward in its 
credit checks that should have alerted  Mr Lender  to ask further questions.
For loans one and two, given the loan amounts, what was apparent  about Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time and her history  with Mr Lender, I dont think  it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mrs C provided or the information Mr 
Lender shouldve  been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to start 
verifying what Mrs C was saying. So I cant say it was wrong for Mr Lender  to have provided 
loans one and two. 
By loan 3 the amount  Mrs C had asked  to borrow had doubled. And she was committed  to 
making repayments for another  9 months.  She had also only just repaid loan 2 the day 
before. As far as I can see there were signs now that Mrs C was borrowing money  to cover a 
hole in her finances  that the previous loan had made.
So I think Mr Lender couldve realised at that time that Mrs C may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Mr Lender shouldve also become  concerned  about  whether it knew enough about 
Mrs Cs true financial  situation.
I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  to fully review Mrs Cs financial situation  before 
approving loan 3. And I think that Mr Lender  needed  to verify the information it found out 
where possible. This is to make sure Mrs C was in position to make  the repayments  
sustainably. I dont  think Mr Lender  did this. So I need to think  about what it wouldve seen if 
it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mrs C has provided some  information about her financial  circumstances which includes 
some bank statements  and a recent credit report.  I accept that this isnt exactly what  Mr 
Lender wouldve  seen  at the time. But I think it wouldve found out similar  information  if it had 
made proportionate  checks, so I think its reasonable  to rely on it.
Ref: DRN80050503This shows that Mrs C was having  problems managing her money.  Mr Lender wouldve 
found out that Mrs C was paying a significant  amount to other creditors.  And shed also been  
repaying a significant amount to several short term lenders on a regular  basis. 
I think that Mr Lender wouldve found  out this information if it had made  proportionate  
checks. And I think it wouldve seen Mrs C wouldnt have been  able repay  loan three in a 
sustainable way. So I think that Mr Lender shouldnt  have given loan three or any loans after 
this point to Mrs C and I think she lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint about  loan three and also about  loan four. 
I think Mr Lender  should now put things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs C paid on loans three and four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans three and four from Mrs Cs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
It appears Mrs C still owes  Mr Lender some of the principal  balance  she borrowed on her 
final loan (loan  four). Mr Lender  may deduct this from the compensation that is due to her. 
But, to be clear, that outstanding balance should  be recalculated  to remove  any interest and 
charges, but taking  account of any repayments Mrs C has made on that loan as though they 
were applied against the principal sum borrowed.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I 
require PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to pay Mrs C compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8005050