K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI) handling of his car insurance 
policy.
Reference to UKI includes their agents.
background
Mr Hs car was insured  with UKI. On 17 September 2018, another car reversed into the front 
of Mr Hs car causing it damage. Mr H claimed on his UKI policy.
UKI arranged for one of their approved repairers  (AR) to repair  the car. The damage 
identified as being caused by the accident  was to the front bumper. The car was repaired 
and returned to Mr H on 9 October  2018. Mr H said he wasnt happy because  there were 
gaps in the bumper and condensation in a headlight.  UKI asked the AR to look at the car 
again. They  said the bumper issue was rectified  and, even though the problem with the 
headlight was unrelated  to the accident, the headlight was dried out. The car was returned to 
Mr H on 12 October  2018.
On 24 October 2018, Mr H told UKI that: the bumper still wasnt right as there  were  gaps; 
there were problems with the headlights; and that the steering was heavy.
On 16 February 2019, Mr H called UKI. He complained that the bumper was detached; the 
steering was heavy;  the cars  undertray  was missing; and there was mould inside the car. 
UKIs call handler didnt log Mr Hs complaint or the issues he raised.
It wasnt until 14 March 2019, when Mr H called UKI and again raised the issues  with the 
car. UKI agreed to send  an engineer to inspect  the car. That happened on 28 March. The 
engineer said the only problem that was accident  related and needed  rectification was the 
bumper. He said it had popped out and just needed to be reaffixed. He said the headlights 
and mould had nothing to do with the accident or the ARs workmanship. And after 
consulting with the garage, the AR said the car didnt have an undertray. UKIs engineer told 
Mr H to return the car to the AR for them to fix the bumper. Although UKIs file notes  say 
Mr H agreed to that, Mr H told us that he didnt want to go back  to the same AR, because 
they had the car on two occasions  but failed to do a proper job on the bumper and they 
caused other problems.
UKI upheld  Mr Hs complaint in part. They  said their call handler should have logged  his 
complaint when he spoke with them on 16 February 2019. And by not doing so things were 
delayed. UKI paid Mr H £50 compensation to address  that. UKI also said the only 
outstanding accident related issue in need  of rectification was the bumper. Mr H didnt agree, 
so he brought  his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked  into Mr Hs 
concerns. While that was happening Mr H raised a further complaint. He said the new 
bumper installed and painted by UKI didnt  match the rest of the car. Our investigator felt UKI 
had dealt with Mr H fairly. He recommended that Mr H should  return  his car to the AR for 
them to fix the bumper. And while  Mr H was there, the AR could show Mr H that the 
undertray wasnt missing.
As Mr H didnt  agree with our investigator, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
Before that happened,  Mr H told our investigator that he sold his car because  he had to 
Ref: DRN89174202replace it. He said he sold it for less than what it was worth  and wanted UKI to compensate 
him for that.
My provisional decision was issued on 13 July 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it in part. Ill explain  why.
Mr H has raised  a number of concerns with the repairs to his car. Some  which  he 
believes are accident  related  and not properly repaired by UKIs AR and some he 
feels were caused by the AR. Mr H hasnt provided any engineering evidence to 
support his position. The only engineering evidence Ive been provided with is from 
UKI.
bumpers paint not matching
Mr H didnt raise  his concern about  the bumpers  colour not matching until May 2019,  
some seven months after the car was repaired. He provided a number of photos  
taken at night.  And from a lay perspective having considered them,  the bumper did 
indeed appear  to be a different shade to the bonnet of the car. But our investigator 
asked for some photos to be taken during the day. And having seen those it appears 
the bumpers colour  matches the bonnet satisfactorily. And UKI have confirmed that 
they used the paint  that is specified  for that car on its VIN (vehicle identification 
number). Im therefore not intending  to uphold this aspect of the complaint.
the headlights
Mr H said he had various problems with the headlights. They appear to have suffered 
from condensation and Mr H said he had to replace the bulbs himself to resolve  the 
problem. And Ive seen  that UKI dried  them out. The engineering evidence  from UKI 
is that the problems with the headlights  were  unrelated to the accident  and not 
something the AR touched, other than to dry them. In the absence of any engineering 
evidence to counter  UKIs engineers opinion, Im not intending  to uphold this part of 
the complaint.
mould inside  the car
Mr H said because the undertray was missing from his car, he believed  damp  
penetrated the inside  of his car and caused  mould.  UKIs engineer  confirmed thats 
not possible. And without any engineering evidence to confirm Mr Hs belief, Im not 
intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
the undertray
I can see from the correspondence and UKIs file notes that there has been  some 
confusion in relation to the undertray. Mr H said after UKI repaired the car the 
undertray was missing. UKI said that particular model of car didnt  have an undertray 
and the manufacturer of the car confirmed that. But with our investigators helpful  
intervention, UKI spoke  with the cars manufacturer again who confirmed that Mr Hs 
car should have  four undertrays. And in fact, as part of the repairs, UKIs AR 
replaced two of the four undertrays. UKI confirmed that all four undertrays were  
Ref: DRN89174203attached to the car. And both our investigator and UKI said once Mr H attended the 
ARs garage  to have  the bumper fixed, the AR would lift the car on a ramp and show  
the undertrays to Mr H. UKI said they think Mr H mistakenly thought there should be 
one large undertray  covering the underside  of the engine. But thats not the case.  Im 
therefore satisfied  that the undertrays are intact and none are missing.  Im therefore 
not intending to uphold  this aspect of the complaint.
the bumper and UKIs service
The evidence shows that UKIs AR didnt fix the replacement  bumper to a satisfactory 
standard when  they first had the car. Its also clear that when the car went back to 
them a second  time it wasnt rectified  properly. Thats the case because  the engineer 
UKI sent out to examine the car in March 2019 confirmed the bumper needed  
rectification work. Although UKI said Mr H should  take the car back  to the AR to fix 
the bumper Mr H didnt  do that. I can understand his frustration and why he lost faith 
in the AR, because  the AR had twice before failed to fix the bumper to a satisfactory  
standard. Although it would appear the rectification work was a straightforward job 
and I think could have  been done  at low cost, UKI refused to let Mr H use another 
garage. I dont think that was reasonable. And the bumper not being properly fixed  
after two attempts was a source  of distress and inconvenience for Mr H. 
I also note that when Mr H complained  on 16 February 2019, UKIs call handler failed 
to log his complaint  and Mr Hs concerns about the car. UKI accepted that caused a 
delay. I think if the handler  correctly  logged the complaint Mr Hs concerns could 
have been dealt with sooner. UKI paid Mr H £50 compensation to address that. But 
given the issues  with the bumper and the failure  to log the complaint which caused a 
delay, I dont think that amount goes far enough. So, to address the service issues 
and the distress and inconvenience Mr H experienced, I intend to require UKI to pay 
Mr H a further £200 to take the total compensation to £250.
the sale of Mr Hs car
Mr H said he sold his car for less than what it was worth. His suggestion  is that he 
sold the car for less than its value because  of the outstanding  issues  that he held UKI 
responsible for. That wasnt a complaint  Mr H raised  before, so UKI havent  had the 
opportunity to address it. If thats  something Mr H wishes to pursue  then he will have 
to make a new complaint  to UKI. They  will then have eight weeks  to consider it and 
respond to Mr H. And if he remains unhappy  after that he can ask our service to look 
into it.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. UKI accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr H said he didnt agree  with some aspects  of my provisional findings. He said he would 
provide written reasons why but he didnt do so.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so and given UKI accepted 
my provisional decision, and Mr H didnt  provide  any substantive comments, my decision 
remains the same.
Ref: DRN89174204my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require U K Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr H a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr H has accepted 
my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept
or reject my decision before14 September 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If UKI consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr H how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8917420