K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Grove & Dean Ltd cancelled  his motor insurance policy but didnt tell 
him. He wants compensation for not being able to use his car for two months, 
reimbursement of his expenses and the cancellation  marker removed.
background
Mr S took out a policy through  Grove & Dean  and it sent him an email asking him for copies 
of the proof of No Claims Bonus (NCB), drivers licences and DVLA  check  codes. Mr S didnt 
respond, so Grove & Dean emailed and wrote to him saying that the policy would cancel if 
he didnt provide this information. 
Mr S then called Grove  & Dean and it told him to send the information and ring to check  that 
it had been received. Mr S told Grove & Dean  where to find his NCB proof and he sent 
copies of the licences by email, but he didnt call. Grove & Dean said it didnt receive these 
due to IT and admin problems. 
And so the policy cancelled.  Mr S discovered this a month later. Grove  & Dean said it had an 
incorrect email  address for Mr S. It said Mr S should  have called it as advised. And it said 
the policy would have cancelled in any case as he hadnt provided the requested check  
codes. But it refunded Mr Ss cancellation  fee and paid him £75 compensation. Mr S was 
only charged pro-rata for his time on cover.  
Mr S said hed not driven the car for two months for fear of higher premiums. He wanted 
compensation for this and the storage charges  he incurred. He also wanted the cancellation  
marker removed from his record.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought that 
Mr S hadnt  sent the check codes as he thought they were  on the driving  licences. She 
thought that if Grove  & Dean had received and responded to his email with the driving 
licences, he could have  provided the codes and avoided the cancellation. She thought  it 
wasnt reasonable for Grove  & Dean to put the onus on Mr S to check  that the information 
had been received. And Grove & Dean had then sent the cancellation notice  to the incorrect  
email address after this had been  corrected. 
To put things right, the investigator  didnt  think Grove & Dean needed to compensate Mr S 
for not using  his car as this was his decision. He didnt take out cover elsewhere. She 
thought Grove & Dean  should pay Mr S £125 additional compensation and record the 
cancellation as requested  by the consumer.
Grove & Dean  agreed to provide the further compensation. But it said it was factual that it 
had cancelled the policy but would  accept that our service thought this cancellation was 
unfair. Mr S replied  that he thought Grove  & Dean should pay his storage costs as he 
couldnt afford to insure his car with the cancellation  on his record.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN87615682I can see that the problem initially arose as Grove & Dean  had an incorrect  email address for 
Mr S. I think this came about due to Mr Ss error when completing  an online application. But 
Grove & Dean  had opportunity to correct this when Mr S called it to complete his purchase. 
The email  address was then discussed  and should  have  been corrected. Grove  & Dean 
apologised to Mr S for this error.   
Grove & Dean  said Mr Ss email with his driving licences wasnt  received due to technical 
issues. So I think that even if Mr S had sent in all the information required, the policy would 
still have cancelled and Mr S wouldnt have been informed of this. I agree with the 
investigator that it was unfair for Grove  & Dean to put the onus on Mr S to call it to check that 
his email had been  received. I can see that it was sent to the correct email  address. 
Grove & Dean  didnt then send the cancellation letter  to the correct  email address. And so 
Mr S was driving whilst  uninsured. Fortunately there were no consequences  from this. I can 
see that Mr S was concerned about  what may have happened.  But I can only consider 
actual rather than potential losses. 
When a business  makes errors, as Grove & Dean  has done here, then we expect it to 
restore the consumers  position as far as its possible  to do so.
I can see that Grove & Dean told Mr S in its response to his complaint that the insurer  would 
have indemnified him for any claims made during the period of cover. So I dont think a letter 
of indemnity is necessary. 
Grove & Dean  has said that it would note on Mr Ss record that our service thought the 
cancellation was unfair. But I think it should note that it cancelled the policy  unfairly. I think  
this is sufficient for Mr S to explain the cancellation to future  insurers. 
Grove & Dean  agreed to increase its compensation for Mr Ss trouble and upset by £125.  I 
think this was fair and reasonable  as Mr S had the inconvenience and stress of having to 
deal with the unfair cancellation. I think the total of £200 compensation for the level of 
service provided is in keeping with what  Id award  in similar  circumstances. 
Mr S thought  Grove & Dean should  reimburse his storage  costs  and some road tax as he 
said he couldnt afford to insure his car due to the cancellation. The investigator asked Mr S 
for evidence  to support this and also why he hadnt looked at alternatives such  as declaring 
his car SORN.  But Mr S didnt respond. Grove & Dean said the cancellation wouldnt have 
affected the premium  greatly.
So I cant see evidence from Mr S that he was unable to insure and drive his car due to the 
costs. Also,  we expect  a consumer to reasonably mitigate their losses,  and declaring his car 
SORN may have been a cheaper alternative. So I think it was Mr Ss decision to not use his 
car. And so I cant reasonably ask Grove  & Dean to refund Mr Ss storage costs. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Grove  & Dean Ltd to do the 
following:
1.Pay Mr S £125 additional  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
level of service.
Ref: DRN876156832.Note on Mr Ss record that the cancellation  of Mr Ss policy  was unfair.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8761568