K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited  wont refund the balance he had to pay 
for a new engine (£1,200).  He would like this sum refunded.
background
Mr G says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement for a seven  year old car with 99,770  
miles on the clock with Startline Motor  Finance  Limited (Startline)  in October 2017.
He says he found out there was a manufacturing  issue with the engine.  The oil consumption 
was high as the pistons  werent correct on the engine. He says he took the car to the 
manufacturer who did an oil test. As a result of this the manufacturer agreed  to rebuild the 
engine and to cover 80% of the costs  of doing so. It didnt pay the remaining 20% as it said 
the car had missed  a service.
Mr G doesnt feel its fair he should  have  to pay the £1,200.
Startline didnt uphold  Mr Gs complaint. It said the repair works were carried  out prior to its 
involvement. And the parts  werent retained so it couldnt assess  if the condition of the 
pistons were in keeping with the age and mileage of the car or not.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint. He spoke to the dealership  that carried out 
work to the car and found the repair works were done as a gesture of goodwill, that the oil 
consumption problem wasnt recognised as a manufacturing defect, and it only covered  80% 
of the cost of the repair due to the poor service  history. As Mr G raised his concerns in May 
2019 more than six months after having the car he couldnt conclude there were problems 
present or developing at the point  of sale.
Startline accepted this view but Mr G didnt.
He sent in evidence to show that the car had been  regularly  serviced albeit by third party  
garages. And evidence to show the problem with the engine  was widely documented  online  
and in the press.
Our investigator considered these points and as a result changed his view. He felt Mr G had 
evidenced the car had been regularly serviced.  And questioned why the manufacturer would 
have paid 80% of the costs of rebuilding the engine for a used car if it didnt feel the car had 
any defect.
He did his own research  and found that the manufacturer was aware of this issue  with this 
particular engine. He found that although  the manufacturer considered  this to be an issue 
rather than a defect  that it looked  at cases on an individual basis. The problem seemed to be 
a worldwide one.
He recommended that Startline:-
-Refund the £1200 contribution Mr G paid to have the engine  repaired
-Pay £100 compensation to Mr G for the distress and inconvenience.
Mr G accepted this view but Startline didnt.
Ref: DRN85807622It said that our investigator found the manufacturer  had not provided goods of a satisfactory 
quality in this case. But Startline itself had followed correct processes  in line with the 
Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015.  It didnt feel it should be liable for the £1200 Mr G made  
as this was an agreement between him and the manufacturer. Had Mr G not been happy he 
should have made Startline  aware  before any work was done on the car.
Finally it said Mr G had breached the terms of his contract which specified he shouldnt  alter 
or improve his vehicle without its consent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G feels strongly  about this and I do understand why. He had a major problem with his car 
which has been rectified  so he is happy  to keep the car  but feels  he shouldnt have had 
to pay 20% towards  the cost of the repair.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr Gs car needed a rebuild  of its engine. Or that 80% 
of the cost was covered by the manufacturer leaving Mr G to pay the remaining 20% 
(£1,200).
I should point  out that although  we take relevant consumer law into account in cases  such as 
this we arent bound  by it. We look at what is fair and reasonable in each circumstance.
I accept Startlines point  that as Mr G raised the issue  six months after having the vehicle  the 
onus was on him to prove there was a problem present  or developing at the point of sale.  
Also that the manufacturer has said its not a manufacturing defect but a problem that 
sometimes arises  in these cars.  And could be linked to the service  history.
I dont accept Startlines  point that Mr G was in breach of his contract  there are other  
clauses in the contract that state for example Mr G was responsible for maintaining his 
vehicle, ensuring  its safety and keeping it in a good and serviceable condition  in accordance 
with manufacture and dealers servicing  recommendations.  
I dont think the manufacturer would have rebuilt the engine had it not needed to do so. I 
think it could be argued in having the work done Mr G met these other  requirements  in the 
contract  even if he didnt met the one Startline  specifically  referred  to of not altering or 
improving the vehicle without its consent.
I also dont accept Startlines point that, as there  was an agreement between  the 
manufacturer and Mr G, Startline isnt responsible  for the £1,200  Mr G paid. I agree that 
when Mr G realised he would have  to cover 20% of the engine  rebuild  cost that he could, at 
that point, have raised the matter with Startline to investigate but didnt. But Startline  as the 
provider of the credit does  have responsibility  for the quality of the car. 
It seems  to me, from the email from the manufacturer to Startline, that the main reason the 
manufacturer charged Mr G £1200  for the cost of the repair was due to the poor service 
history.
Ref: DRN85807623 But Mr G has shown us the car was regularly serviced. So on that basis  I am inclined to 
agree with Mr G that had he been  able to demonstrate that, at the time, it might  be 
reasonable to conclude  that the manufacturer would have  covered  the full cost.
From external information it does seem that the problem with Mr Gs car is a well 
documented one. So whilst the manufacturer  might take the view its not actually a defect 
there clearly is some  issue with that particular engine.
I also agree  with our investigators point that its unlikely that the manufacturer would have 
covered 80% of the cost of an expensive repair if it didnt feel there was a significant issue  
that it had some responsibility to repair.
Looking at all the information I have I think its reasonable  that Startline refund the £1,200  Mr 
G paid and pay, as suggested the £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience to 
Mr G.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Startline motor Finance Limited should:-
-Refund the £1200 contribution Mr G paid to have the engine  repaired
-Pay £100 compensation to Mr G for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8580762