K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc froze and then closed his accounts  with it and didnt 
explain what  it was doing or why.  
background 
Mr C held accounts with HSBC, including a credit  card account. In or about September 2017  
it froze those accounts. Mr C says he found  that out only when payments to the accounts  
were returned to the senders. He contacted  HSBC  to find out what was happening and says 
he was told after several attempts that the bank had sanctions concerns. 
HSBC later wrote to Mr C giving him details of this service and confirming that accounts had 
been inhibited due to a potential conflict with HSBCs Sanctions  Policy  The bank said 
that it needed to investigate  further. 
Mr C complained that he heard nothing more and wasnt made  aware of the nature of any 
investigation, or indeed whether one was being undertaken at all. He complained to this 
service. 
There were a number of further developments during the course of our consideration of Mr 
Cs complaint. The most  significant of these were:
HSBC took the decision  to close Mr Cs accounts and remove banking  facilities  from 
him. 
Mr C made a payment from another account to his HSBC credit card account. This was 
delayed.
HSBC offered  Mr C £250  in compensation for his handling  of the matter. It later clarified 
that this was in respect of the delay in applying the payment to Mr Cs credit card 
account. 
Our investigator took the view that HSBC  had been  within its rights to freeze Mr Cs 
accounts and later to decide to close them. He thought that the offer of £250 was 
reasonable. Mr C didnt however accept the investigators opinion  and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. He was also concerned about how any payment might  be 
made by HSBC, since he didnt want to receive a direct payment from HSBC into his other 
bank account.     
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator noted that Mr C has made a number of quite detailed  submissions  and also 
sought answers to his questions about  the nature of HSBCs investigations.  Like the 
investigator, Ive considered all of these, but I dont believe  its necessary  to address each 
and every point that Mr C has made in order to meet my statutory duty to determine  his 
complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, and so Ill address the issues  that I 
consider to be the most important.  I do stress  however that Ive considered  everything that 
Mr C and the bank  have said before reaching my decision. 
Ref: DRN87598852I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence.  We may treat 
evidence from banks  as confidential for a number of reasons   for example, if contains 
information about other customers  or security information.  Some of the information HSBC  
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. 
Mr C was told that HSBC blocked his accounts  because of concerns about  a possible 
conflict with its sanctions policy.  He says that he hasnt  breached  any sanctions and he 
wants to know if HSBC  believes he has. But I dont believe  its necessary for the bank  to 
have reached any conclusion about  that before taking the decision to close Mr Cs accounts.  
It explained that it was concerned about  a potential conflict and later that it had decided to 
close Mr Cs accounts. I dont believe it was unreasonable for it to have taken  that view,  or to 
have frozen  the accounts in the meantime.
Nor do I think that HSBC  was under  any obligation to discuss  with Mr C the progress of its 
investigation. But it did need to let him know clearly what  the outcome was, and I believe  it 
did that when  it decided to close the accounts.
I do agree  however that there were unnecessary delays, in particular in dealing with the 
payment Mr C made to his credit card account. HSBC agreed  to refund interest accrued as a 
result and offered  Mr C £250 in recognition of the delays. I think  that offer is reasonable. Mr 
C has said that he doesnt want to accept a direct payment from HSBC, since  that would 
taint his account with an organisation that he regards as criminal.  HSBC has offered to 
send him a cheque, but I dont intend to specify how payment is made. I dont believe it 
would be unreasonable for HSBC to make  an electronic payment, rather  than a cheque 
payment. I will however make an award  for the amount  offered,  so Mr C can enforce it if 
necessary.              
my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Cs complaint, HSBC Bank UK Plc should  pay him 
£250. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8759885