K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains about the way she has been  treated  by her mortgage lender, National 
Westminster Bank Plc. Ms G says she was a victim of fraud at the hands of her ex-husband 
in 2004 and that NatWest should have completed more checks  when the mortgage was 
taken out to prevent the fraud happening.
Ms G also says that NatWest has acted  unfairly by:
-not doing more to help her when she was in financial difficulties over the years;
-charging its highest interest rate to her mortgage;
-withholding  information that Ms G asked to see from NatWests  records; and
-unfairly refused  to remove  her ex-husband from the mortgage account or extend  the 
mortgage term.
Ms G wants NatWest  to write off £65,000  of her mortgage balance,  refund unreasonable 
interest charged and default fees and compensate  her for the stress it has caused her.
background
Ms G has said that her ex-husband committed mortgage fraud  in 2004 increasing their joint 
mortgage from £108,000 to £170,000 without her knowledge. This matter has already been 
considered in a court  as part of divorce proceedings in March  2016. Ms G says a judge  
ordered that the joint property be transferred into her sole name having heard her 
ex-husband admit that he had changed the amount of the mortgage application without Ms 
Gs knowledge. Ms G was to sell the property and repay the first charge mortgage  with 
NatWest and another secured loan with the proceeds, retaining the equity in the property for 
herself.
The mortgaged property  hasnt been sold and the joint NatWest mortgage is still running.  
There are significant arrears on the mortgage account and NatWest agreed  to place legal 
action on hold while we looked into Ms Gs complaint. 
Ms G complains that NatWest should have completed more  checks  in 2004  when the 
mortgage was taken out. If NatWest had undertaken checks  then the fraudulent  increase to 
the amount of the joint mortgage  loan wouldnt have gone ahead without her agreement.
Ms G also complains  that NatWest hasnt  done  enough to support her when shes struggled  
to pay this mortgage in recent years. In 2017 Ms G asked NatWest  to consider a term 
extension and lower  interest rates to help her repay this debt.
Ms G has been unhappy about this mortgage for many years.  In 2016 she complained to 
NatWest about the lack of checks it had completed  in 2004. NatWest  gave its final response 
on 28 April 2016, saying  it didnt  uphold the complaint.  It issued a further  final response to 
this complaint on 24 August 2016 clarifying  NatWests position that the judge had already 
considered the deceptions carried out by Ms Gs ex-husband  and that this was reflected in 
the divorce settlement. Ms G was dissatisfied with NatWests response and brought her 
complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Ms Gs complaint at the time about the lack of checks  
made by NatWest when  the mortgage  was arranged and her request to have the balance  
written off. Our adjudicator shared her view on 31 October 2016. In it she said NatWest  
wouldnt agree  to us looking into what happened at the time of the sale saying the matter 
Ref: DRN89689532had been brought to us too late according to our rules. She agreed the complaint  wasnt 
something we could investigate further.  The adjudicator said that if Ms G didnt agree with 
her findings  then she could refer the matter to an ombudsman,  but Ms G didnt do so at the 
time. 
On 23 July 2018 Ms G referred another complaint about her mortgage to us. Ms G had 
complained to NatWest  again about it having failed to carry out checks  which  would have 
prevented her ex-husband increasing the amount of the mortgage without her knowledge.  
She also complained  about the interest  rate being  too high on the mortgage and some  
further administrative and customer service shortcomings.
Our investigator considered the complaint  brought but thought we couldnt look at the 
complaint about  mortgage fraud  as this matter had already  been  referred  to us in 2016.  He 
didnt think it would  be appropriate for us to consider the same  matter twice. He did 
investigate the other  parts  of Ms Gs complaint. He thought there  were  times in 2016 when 
NatWest could have  been more proactive in helping Ms G but he didnt consider this has 
caused her any financial  loss. He didnt uphold  the other parts  of Ms Gs complaint that he 
could consider.
Ms G disagreed with the investigators view. Ms G responded to say, in summary:
-she feels shes provided all the facts of fraud and we should  at least  tell NatWest to 
review their fraud  policy and follow their procedures. Even though  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cannot review the case of fraud there  is obvious  evidence and 
cant we issue NatWest with a warning?
-if NatWest  had contacted her and told her what payment arrangement  it would have 
accepted, shed have paid more  than £600 per month;
-NatWest refused to enter into a meaningful conversation with her as a victim of fraud 
and thats why the arrears have mounted up;
-she has repaid most of the balance. What  Ms G disputes is the £62,000 added to the 
mortgage balance  without her knowledge  by her ex-husband; and
-she suspects NatWest  has deliberately withheld information from her to cover up its 
errors and that the authorities should hold them to account for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to reassure Ms G that Ive considered all the evidence before reaching my 
decision. I appreciate  her strength of feeling on this matter and how important  this complaint, 
and sorting out the issues with this mortgage,  is to her. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is an informal dispute  resolution service, set up to 
provide a free alternative to the courts. Were entirely separate  to the regulator,  the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  Ms G has asked that the ombudsman review  NatWests policy  and 
procedures and issue warnings holding NatWest to account for its actions. My role is to look 
at the complaint brought by Ms G and consider  whether she has been treated fairly and 
reasonably by NatWest  with respect  to the issues shes complained  about. It isnt my role to 
review a business policies or processes, issue warnings or make  recommendations of how I 
think NatWest should  conduct its business.  
Ref: DRN89689533Ms G brought her complaint about mortgage fraud  to us in 2016 and an adjudicator  found  
that this matter had been brought to us out of time. I shall say no more  about that here.
I now turn to the specific circumstances  of Ms Gs complaint that I can consider here, about 
how NatWest has managed her mortgage  since she fell into financial difficulties  in 2015. 
Im sorry  to hear about  all the difficulties that Ms G has had to cope with in recent years.  
Ms Gs explained that shes suffered chronic  ill health, has struggled  financially, and has 
been through a divorce. This has clearly been an incredibly difficult  time for Ms G. Im also 
sensitive to the complexity  of Ms Gs wider  situation  and the financial difficulties that shes  
had with a number of different lenders which are due to the actions of a third party.  While  Im 
not considering  Ms Gs complaint  about  mortgage fraud  in this decision, I have thought 
about this as relevant background in the wider circumstances  of Ms Gs current complaint. 
Did NatWest do enough to help Ms G in her financial difficulty?
Ms G asked NatWest for help in 2015. She was struggling to pay the mortgage following the 
breakdown of her marriage. She was also out of work and was looking for new employment. 
Ms Gs financial difficulties  appear to have  then continued for years. Ive concluded this 
because Ms G hasnt made  her full mortgage repayments since this time.
Im aware that at some  point soon  after her divorce  Ms G entered  into a short payment 
arrangement with NatWest, and that she would pay £600 per month for several months. 
NatWest agreed this as short-term forbearance  to help Ms G. When this arrangement 
expired, Ms G continued  to pay this amount although outside of a formal arrangement with 
her lender.  But this was less than the contractual monthly payment and so arrears  built up.
NatWest says it expected  Ms G to sell her property to repay its mortgage and other debt 
secured on the property  following her divorce.  It seems Ms G had initially planned to sell the 
property during or around 2017.  Evidence on the file indicates  there  had been  a planned 
sale but this apparently fell through. However, Ms G now seems keen to avoid selling  the 
property if this is at all possible.
Im also aware that as the years  have passed,  Ms G has continued  to dispute whether she 
should be expected to repay the outstanding  mortgage balance with NatWest  of around 
£62,000. And with each  month that passes Ms G continues to pay significantly less than the 
contractual monthly repayment (CMP) due on the mortgage. This means  the arrears on the 
mortgage have  now built up to around  £60,000. The level of arrears  on this mortgage is now 
around the same amount  as the outstanding mortgage balance. 
Ms G says NatWest should have  done more to help her in her financial difficulty.  She says if 
NatWest had asked  her to pay more  than £600 then she would have done so. Ms G also 
says NatWest purposely kept me on a high interest  rate and put me in severe arrears by not 
extending the loan period .  
I can see Ms Gs argument and why shed  have liked NatWest to offer to do more to help her 
in light of her wider situation. Essentially,  I think  Ms Gs frustration  with NatWest is that she 
still wants it to write off the remaining mortgage  balance. 
Ref: DRN89689534Ms G has said NatWest  has kept her on a high rate of interest since  shes  been in financial 
difficulty. NatWests records show Ms G had been on a rate of 4% from 2009 until 2014. At 
that point Ms G asked  about a new rate in 2014.  NatWest says it gave Ms G the number to 
call the product team but theres no record that this was followed  up at the time. 
Ms Gs mortgage has been on a standard reversionary rate in recent years and throughout 
the time of serious financial difficulty. The reversionary rate is typically  applied  to all 
mortgages if another interest rate product isnt taken out. Since 2015 Ms G hasnt been 
eligible for lower interest rates with NatWest as her mortgage has been in arrears throughout 
that time,  except for a month when she settled arrears with a lump  sum payment before the 
mortgage fell back into arrears. Its not unusual for a mortgage lender to ask that the 
mortgage is up to date (not in arrears) before it will make lower  interest  rate products 
available and I think its broadly reasonable for lenders to expect  this. 
But there are exceptions to this. There can be times  when offering an interest rate product is 
the difference between someone getting back on track with their mortgage payments or not. 
That doesnt  appear to be the case here.  I dont  think that if NatWest had made a product 
available to Ms G in the past then this mortgage wouldnt be in arrears now.  
Ms G has paid around £600  each month  towards this mortgage  for years.  This is around 
£1,000 short of the expected monthly  repayment- and thats  excluding  any extra payments 
Ms G might reasonably be expected  to make each month towards clearing the arrears.  It 
may be Ms G cannot afford to pay any more  than £600 each month  although she has said 
that if NatWest had asked  for more she could have  paid more. 
I cant see that a recent assessment of Ms Gs income and outgoings  has been completed 
so I cant determine  what may or may not have been affordable for Ms G in the past,  or 
going forward. Ive also thought about  the fact that Ms G had been planning to sell the 
property following her divorce in 2016.  Even  if Ms G had asked for a product, and had been  
eligible at the time,  I dont  think  it would necessarily have been  appropriate  for NatWest to 
provide a new interest rate product,  which may involve a product fee and an early  repayment 
charge, knowing  that Ms G was planning to repay  the mortgage at any time. I say this 
because it may have led to lower  interest  accruing on the mortgage while the product was 
running, but this would have meant  Ms G had an early repayment  charge to pay when  she 
sold the property.  
With the benefit of hindsight  Ms G may wish she had taken out a product knowing that she 
didnt manage  to sell her property following her divorce. But thats not something she or 
NatWest could have  known at the time.  Overall,  I dont  think its unfair or unreasonable  that 
this mortgage  has remained on SVR despite  Ms Gs financial difficulties.
Ms G also asked  that NatWest consider removing her ex-husband from the mortgage  and 
extend the term of her mortgage to reduce her monthly repayments.  Both of these changes 
to the mortgage  would have required NatWest to explore whether Ms G could afford  the 
mortgage. 
Ref: DRN89689535There are instances where a lender  is permitted  to set aside a consumer failing an 
assessment of affordability  where  it is clearly  the best interests of a consumer to make 
changes to a mortgage. Arguably  NatWest could have agreed to remove Mr G from the 
mortgage. According to Ms G, he hasnt made  payments towards the mortgage  for years 
and I understand  hes been removed from the title of the property following the divorce 
hearing. However, I struggle to see how removing Mr G would have improved Ms Gs 
position. 
It would adversely affect NatWests ability to try to recover an outstanding mortgage  balance 
due from Mr G, and it would  effectively  release him from any obligation to repay the 
mortgage debt.  I can see why this wasnt something  NatWest would want to agree to 
considering Ms G wasnt making  the mortgage  payments in full either and the arrears were 
increasing rather than reducing each month.  I think it was reasonable that NatWest declined  
Ms Gs request to remove Mr G from the mortgage.  NatWest understood the mortgage  was 
to be repaid imminently from the property sale, and it had applied  short  term forbearance 
while waiting for this to happen. 
And Im not persuaded that extending  the mortgage  term would have resolved Ms Gs 
financial difficulties either. No proposals  were put forward to NatWest  to demonstrate that 
such an extension would  be affordable for Ms G or that she was committed to repaying the 
mortgage balance  and arrears over a longer term.
NatWest started legal action in 2018.  By this time the arrears had increased to a high figure 
and I can see why it would have concerned that the property wouldnt be sold,  and that the 
debt wouldnt be repaid shortly. I dont think its unreasonable that NatWest started legal 
action at that point  to recover the debt. 
Ms G has referred her complaint that NatWest didnt share all information  it had with her as 
part of a Subject  Access  Request. The Information Commissioners  office has already ruled 
on this matter and Ms G subsequently received all the calls and call transcripts  that shed 
asked for. This seems reasonable to settle  this part of the complaint.
I know my decision will be a disappointment to Ms G but I dont think NatWest  have acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in this case.  
Next steps
Ms Gs situation with this mortgage becomes more serious as time passes. The arrears  have  
increased further, and the mortgage is now out of an agreed term (having expired in 2019). 
With every  month that Ms G makes a payment  of £600, her arrears  increase, and this will 
only erode  Ms Gs equity  in her property further  or she may find herself in negative  equity 
owing more to secured  lenders than the property is worth.
I can see why she wants NatWest to write  off the remaining  mortgage  in recognition of how 
difficult things have  been for her. The circumstances  under which  this mortgage came about  
clearly have a significant  impact on how Ms G perceives the debt and how receptive she is 
to NatWests attempts  to get the outstanding mortgage balance repaid.
If Ms G considers  the mortgage is unenforceable then thats a matter  that she may wish to 
take legal  advice about. Thats not something  I am able to consider here. Im aware Ms G 
has already spoken  with a solicitor about her situation with regards to this mortgage. We can 
also share details  of debt charities with Ms G if this would  be helpful to her.
Ref: DRN89689536my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8968953