K821x#15complaint
Mr A wants  TSB Bank plc to compensate him for the impact of fraudulent activity on his 
account.
background
On 17 May 2018 Mr A had funds fraudulently taken from his account. He was away  from 
home at this time as he says he was due to start a job in another city and had gone there to 
finalise accommodation  for him and his family.
Mr A says that as a result of the fraudulent activity on his account, he had to end up going  
into the TSB branch as he got cut off while on the phone to them. Because  of the time taken 
there, he was unable to keep his appointment with the estate agent and lost out on the 
property. This caused him stress and financial losses because  he says he had already 
terminated the tenancy on his existing property on the understanding that he would be able 
to take up the tenancy on the property  he had come to view. He says he then had to extend 
his existing tenancy which resulted in further  costs and was charged extra by the removal 
company due to the change of removal date.  
Mr A says he was stranded and had to borrow money from a friend as he didnt have enough  
money to get back home. He couldnt  get back home on the flight  he had originally booked 
for 18 May as he was advised by TSB to go to the branch daily first thing in the morning and 
phone the fraud team  from there in order to get through  to the fraud  team quicker. Mr A says 
he had to cancel  his existing flight and pay for a new flight  to get back home as well as pay 
for a flight  and associated  costs  to come back again to sort out accommodation. He also 
says he was unable  to take up the shift work he had been offered so lost out on earnings  
(from 18 May to 1 June  2018). Mr A took out a loan to replace funds that had been taken 
from his account, he was charged  a settlement fee of £319.47 for this. He spent hours on the 
phone and visits to branch  in order to try and initially log the fraud and then to try and get 
updates.
Our adjudicator considered Mr As complaint  and thought it should be upheld. She said TSB 
should pay Mr A £300 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to him and refund him the 
settlement fee he was charged on the loan of £319.47. However, she didnt think it was fair 
to ask TSB to refund Mr A the other financial losses he says he incurred.
Mr A didnt agree with our adjudicator as he felt he should receive a much  higher amount of 
compensation. So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome  reached by the adjudicator. I appreciate  Mr A will 
be disappointed  by this outcome as he was looking for a much  higher amount in 
compensation but it is of course for Mr A to decide  whether  he wishes to accept or reject my 
decision. I will now explain why I have reached this outcome.
I have no doubt  Mr A suffered stress and inconvenience as a result of the fraudulent activity 
on his account.  He spent hours in branch and on the phone trying to let TSB know  what  had 
Ref: DRN80366262happened. He eventually  managed to inform  TSB of the fraud through  social media  on 19 
May. He didnt receive calls or updates despite  being told he would do so and so didnt know  
what was happening.  And although  the funds were  returned to his account on 21 May, he 
wasnt made aware of this until around  26/27  May.  
I appreciate that its difficult to put a price  on someones feelings  as it is subjective and there 
is no exact science.  However, Ive considered  the amounts of awards we have made on 
these types of cases and I consider £300  is a fair and reasonable amount in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
Ive also thought about the various financial  losses Mr A says he has incurred and carefully  
considered the documents Mr A has provided  in support. However,  the evidence  provided 
doesnt show me that Mr A had terminated  his tenancy before 17 May 2018 or that he had to 
extend his tenancy because of TSB,  thereby incurring further costs. The letter Ive seen is 
dated 30 May (so after the fraud took place and after Mr A became aware the funds  had 
been refunded  into his account) and refers to the tenancy terminating  on 10 June 2018. Mr A 
says the removal  company  originally quoted £775  but that this increased  by £280. However, 
the email Mr A has provided  from the removal company is dated 28 May (again after Mr A 
was aware the refund  had taken  place)  and although they have quoted  a higher amount, it 
still mentions that they can carry out the removal for £775.  I also note that Mr A would have 
had to pay removal costs  in any event whenever  he would have moved and based on what 
Ive been provided,  I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the costs he incurred 
were more because  of TSB.
And in any event, as I understand it, the property that Mr A had arranged a viewing for 
wasnt guaranteed  and so I cant say that it was solely because Mr A wasnt  able to make 
the appointment that he didnt get the property.  So Mr A may have needed  to make another  
trip to look for another property in any event. Also despite what the evidence  shows, if Mr A 
did terminate his existing  lease before viewing the property, I dont think its fair to hold TSB 
responsible for Mr As decision to terminate his existing lease before being guaranteed  
alternative accommodation.
What all this this means is that I dont think its fair or reasonable to tell TSB to pay Mr A for 
the costs Mr A says he incurred as a result of losing out on the property - such as flights,  
taxis, extended  tenancy and removal costs.  And while  I appreciate Mr A says he followed 
TSBs advice to go into branch to continue trying  to get in contact with the fraud team,  this is 
something which Mr A could also reasonably have done from his local branch. This would 
also have allowed him to take his pre-booked flight back home. 
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr A has said about the loss of earnings he incurred. 
However, the letter from the recruitment  consultants says Mr A was due to start shift work  
from 18 May 2018 (09:00 to 17:00) so its unlikely  that Mr A would have been able to carry 
out work  on that date or the following date (depending on the time of his flight)  anyway  given 
that he has told us he had a flight booked from out of the city he was due to start work  in on 
the date that his shift work was due to start. And although it caused much stress and anxiety, 
Mr A was able to log his fraud complaint on 19 May through social  media. So I just havent 
seen sufficient evidence  to conclude that the only reason Mr A was unable  to take up the 
shift work was because  of TSB.
However, I do agree with the adjudicator that Mr A should be refunded the settlement fee he 
paid for the loan.  I understand  that Mr A had to take this loan out to replace funds  that had 
been fraudulently  taken  from his account.  Given that Mr A didnt have much  of a choice and 
Ref: DRN80366263urgently needed  to replace the funds, I dont think its fair or reasonable for TSB to have then 
charged him a settlement  fee when he repaid the loan once his funds had been refunded to 
his account. So I think TSB should refund Mr A this fee.
my final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint  and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr A £300 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to him and to refund Mr A £319.47 in settlement fees if they havent 
done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8036626