K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (Lighthouse)  received ongoing 
payments until September 2019,  in respect  of the pension annuity he took out in 2012. He 
says he didnt receive any ongoing advice  or service  after the annuity  was taken out, so its 
not fair that he had to pay this commission. He asks for the commission to be refunded  from 
2013 onwards.
background
Mr S met with a Lighthouse financial adviser in March 2012 to review  his financial plans as 
he was planning to retire  soon. He was married  and about to turn 65. He and his wife were in 
good health. 
He had five pension  plans; these consisted  of a defined benefit  plan and four defined 
contribution plans.  He wanted advice on how best to maximise  his pension  benefits.  He was 
given advice in relation to all five plans.  But, this complaint only concerns two of these plans. 
These two plans were  held with Provider A. Lighthouse recommended  Mr S combine the 
money in these two plans,  to purchase a whole of life with-profits annuity,  which  he did.
The two plans  combined amounted to £92,715.80 and following the payment of his tax free 
cash of £23,178.95  and the adviser fee of £2,086.11, £64,450.74 was used to purchase  the 
annuity.
Lighthouse says the fees for the annuity also included an annual commission  payment of 
0.5% on the annuity amount, totalling £337.25 per annum. This annual commission was paid 
from 27 September 2013 to 27 September 2019.
client agreement
Mr S signed  a client agreement on 22 March 2012. It said
Ongoing Advice  When we have arranged any product for you we will not give any further  
advice unless you request it but we will be glad to advise you at any time should you ask us 
to do so. Where we do agree an ongoing  service with you, a separate  written agreement will 
be provided.
Lighthouse says the annual  commission, along with the initial  commission paid, was 
intended to cover the cost of the initial advice and this was set out in the client agreement. It 
says the ongoing 0.5% commission payments were  trail commission from the original advice 
and not for providing an ongoing  service.  
Lighthouse points out that the advice was given  before the Retail Distribution Review  (RDR) 
was implemented in January 2013,  which banned commission-based  selling on pensions.  
It says the fees and commission were fully disclosed at the time of advice in the suitability 
report and the annuity illustration.
annuity illustration
Ref: DRN86634272The illustration said that initial commission, as a one-off payment, along with annual 
commission was payable. The first illustration was produced around the same  time as the 
suitability report.
suitability report
Mr S was sent a suitability report by Lighthouse in September  2012. Lighthouse  has pointed 
out a sentence from that report, which said:
I recommend you contact  me each time you receive an annual  statement for the purposes
of a review. The review may take the form of a phone conversation,  an email, letter or
meeting.
The business said that the onus was on Mr S to contact  the business for any ongoing 
reviews in relation  to this annuity.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator concluded that the September 2012 suitability letter  made it clear that the 
separate 0.5% fee was for ongoing advice. In his view,  the following sentence  from the 
suitability report indicated  this:
In respect of the Income Choice With-Profits  Annuity I will be paid 3% of the fund used to 
purchase the annuity, 0.5% pa to go towards the cost of servicing and reviews.
Our adjudicator concluded that as Lighthouse  hadnt provided an ongoing  service, which it 
had agreed  to via a separate agreement  (the suitability report),  the ongoing 0.5% annual  
commission Mr S paid should be refunded.
Lighthouse didnt agree.  It said, in summary:
It wasnt  unusual at the time for an adviser to take a lower commission initially, then 
followed by trail commission as a way of being remunerated  for the initial advice.
The client  agreement was pre RDR and confirmed  that the service  did not cover  
further advice unless requested. The suitability report asked Mr S to make contact if 
he wanted a review. 
The fees and commission were fully disclosed. The illustration shows the commission 
payable. When  the annuity was set up the provider wrote  to Mr S setting out the plan 
charges. On an annual basis,  Mr S received statements showing the commission  
payable.
The suitability report said:
As you know, as an independent  financial adviser, I can be paid either by fee from 
you or commission funded through the investment product. We agreed I would be 
paid commission via the product.
Mr S was instructed  to contact the adviser  for a review. He didnt do so. Any 
concerns he had couldve been raised  at that time.
Mr S contacted  the adviser over the years and although a separate  fee was paid for 
the advice  he received, his circumstances wouldve been fully taken into account  at 
that time.
Ref: DRN86634273Our adjudicator responded and said his opinion had not changed. He took the view that the 
later suitability report couldve been  seen as the separate written agreement  referred to in 
the client agreement.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Ss complaint comes to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. My reasons are largely the same  as our 
adjudicators.
Mr S agreed to pay his adviser commission for the pensions advice he received. Although 
Mr S received advice  in respect of all five of his plans, the advisers remuneration,  according  
to Lighthouse, came from the annuity he purchased from the two former Provider A plans 
combined. Nowhere in the client agreement or the suitability letter can I see that it was made  
clear, or that Mr S agreed to pay through this annuity for all the advice he received. Nor can I 
see that there was a clear intention or understanding that the initial commission paid was 
only part of the overall charge and the rest of the initial advice cost was to be covered by 
annual trail commission  of 0.5%.  
Like our adjudicator, I think the statement in the suitability report,  which followed some 
months after the client agreement, and was in a separate  written document,  made it clear 
that the 0.5% ongoing charge was for servicing  and reviews . I think Mr S couldve 
reasonably understood from that, reading  the client agreement and the suitability report  
together, that the commission payment being deducted was for that purpose, rather  than it 
being payment  in respect of the original advice he received.
The illustrations just referred to annual commission. As they were  issued either  close  in 
time or after the suitability report,  I think it likely that Mr S wouldve  looked to that report for 
more detail about the annual commission payment.
I cant see that Lighthouse provided Mr S with an ongoing service or review in relation to this 
annuity. Mr S did take advice from Lighthouse  on other matters, but paid separately each 
time for the advice he received. Lighthouse  appears to be suggesting that indirectly it 
wouldve ended up considering Mr Ss full circumstances at the time of providing  this 
separate advice.  I take it from this that its saying that this might be treated as a review. I 
dont accept this proposition.  The fee he paid for that separate advice ought reasonably to 
have covered a proper  assessment of his circumstances for the purposes of providing  that 
advice.
I accept that the commission charges did appear  on Mr Ss annual statements and its 
feasible that he couldve flagged up his concerns sooner. Equally, I note that the financial 
adviser was in contact  with Mr S in 2014 and 2015,  when investments matured. And 
Lighthouse said there was no evidence  to show that Mr S had ever requested a review.  
In 2018, when Mr S discussed his concerns with the adviser, the adviser  accepted that he 
had not seen the client for some time and it was unlikely  that he would need to see him any 
time soon.  So the adviser asked for the commission to be stopped. It was open  to the 
adviser to take this action sooner, in the same way that it was open to Mr S to raise his 
concerns sooner, so this doesnt change my view.
Ref: DRN86634274Overall, taking everything into account, I think Lighthouse ought fairly to repay  Mr S the 0.5% 
commission it received between September 2013  and September 2019. I also consider that 
Lighthouse should pay Mr S a modest amount of compensation (£200), for the trouble and 
upset he has been caused by this. 
fair compensation
Mr S wouldve  ended up receiving a higher annuity  payment  had it not been for the annual  
commission payments. So, to put Mr S back in the position that he would otherwise have 
been, Lighthouse should:
Calculate and pay redress based on the difference between the annuity payment 
Mr S received and what he wouldve received had the annual commission  not been  
taken off. Lighthouse should  make a notional deduction to allow  for income  tax that 
would have otherwise been paid by Mr S. The notional allowance  should be 
calculated using Mr Ss actual marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Lighthouse  should also pay simple interest  at 8% per annum on the difference 
between these payments,  from the date of each  actual payment to the date of 
settlement.
In addition, Lighthouse should pay Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience he 
has been caused by this.
Lighthouse  should provide the details  of the calculation  to Mr S in a clear and simple 
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Lighthouse considers that it is required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how 
much it has taken off. It should  also provide Mr S with a tax deduction certificate  if he asks 
for one.
final decision
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and order  Lighthouse Advisory Services 
Limited to pay him fair compensation as calculated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8663427