K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  declined  their claim for 
loss of an engagement ring under Mr Ss home insurance policy.
background
Mr S held a home insurance policy with UKI. In October 2017, he asked that his fiances 
engagement ring be added to the policy with an insured value of £40,000.
In January 2018, Mr S and his fiance (who has since become his wife, Mrs S, which is how 
I shall refer to her throughout the rest of this decision) were out walking and she removed 
her gloves. She later realised the engagement  ring was missing from her finger  but despite 
retracing their steps they were unable to find it. Mr S therefore made a claim under his policy  
for loss of the item.
After getting further  information, UKI declined  the claim. It said it wasnt  satisfied that Mrs S 
normally lived with Mr S at the insured address, as was required for the policys cover for 
personal possessions  to apply.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy at UKIs decision.  They  referred their complaint to us. They  said 
that, at the time of loss, Mrs S was staying at Mr Ss address most nights of the week.  They  
further said that when Mr S added the ring to the policy, UKI failed to make  clear that cover 
was dependent on Mrs S officially living  with him. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy  provides cover for loss of items  outside  the home under the heading of personal 
possessions cover. The policy states:
We will pay for accidental  loss of or damage to:
your  personal possessions
any other items listed on your schedule  under  'Personal possessions'
while they are within  the British Isles.
The policy defines  you/your as:
The person or persons  named in your schedule and any of the following who normally  live 
with them:  their husband, wife, partner (a person living with them as though married), civil 
partner, children, parents and other relatives  normally living  with them.
The policy describes personal possessions  as:
Valuables, sports equipment and bicycles thot belong to you and luggage, clothes and any 
other items you normally wear or carry that belong to you or for which  you are legally 
responsible.
The policy is in Mr Ss name only.
Ref: DRN88510752UKI declined  the claim because it said Mr S hadnt  shown that Mrs S normally lived with him 
at the time the loss occurred. Mr and Mrs S have advanced four arguments as to why they 
consider the claim  should be accepted. I shall deal with each of these in turn.
Mrs S normally lived at Mr Ss address
UKIs concern over whether Mrs S normally lived at Mr Ss address arose  when its adviser 
spoke to Mrs S following the rings  loss. She asked Mrs S to confirm  her address and Mrs S 
asked whether she meant Mr Ss address or her own address. It transpired that Mrs S rented 
a property with her sister.
Mr and Mrs S say that, at the time of the loss, Mrs S stayed at Mr Ss address most nights of 
the week. They say this can be corroborated by Mrs Ss sister.  However,  Mrs S wasnt 
named on any of the utility bills at Mr Ss address and she and Mr S havent been  able to 
provide any other evidence to demonstrate she was normally living there.  They have 
provided two Oyster  travel cards but they have been unable to produce the data within  these 
to support that they were  both regularly travelling to and from work using the station local to 
Mr Ss address.
I have listened  to the telephone calls at the time Mr S added the ring to the policy.  There  was 
no discussion about where Mrs S normally lived. Mr S referred to her leaving the ring at night 
by the side of their bed. It seems the adviser just assumed  she normally lived with Mr S at 
the risk address  but Mr S did not confirm this one way or the other.
The policy doesnt  define normally living but I consider it doesnt necessarily equate to 
where one has recently been staying most often. At the time of loss, Mrs S rented a property 
with her sister which she regularly stayed  at, which presumably  contained  most  of her 
belongings and which apparently served  as her home address for all official purposes. 
Mr and Mrs S have  been unable to show  that there was any commitment, financial or 
otherwise, which  might  lend support to the idea that she normally lived at Mr Ss address.
Even if I were to agree  that normally living meant the address at which  one stayed most 
often, Mr and Mrs S have not been able to provide evidence to show that, for a sustained 
period up to the time of loss, Mrs S stayed more  often  at Mr Ss address than at the property 
she rented  with her sister. 
I therefore consider  that it was reasonable, on the face of it, for UKI to say that Mrs S hadnt  
been shown to be normally living at Mr Ss address and therefore  to decline the claim.
Mr S owned  the ring
Mr and Mrs S say that the ring always belonged to Mr S, even though it was being worn  by 
Mrs S. They  point out that the ring was a family heirloom  and say there was an 
understanding between them that if anything happened to Mrs S and/or between  Mr S and 
Mrs S (whether before or after they got married), the ring would be returned to Mr S.
Mr and Mrs S have  quoted section  3(2) of the Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions)  Act 
1970 which states: "an engagement ring shall be presumed to be an absolute  gift; this 
presumption may be rebutted by proving that the ring was given on the condition,  express  or 
implied, that it should be returned if the marriage did not take place for any reason ". 
However, I dont consider  that this Act lends support to their argument. First,  I dont consider 
they have proved the ring was given on the condition it would be returned if the marriage 
Ref: DRN88510753didnt take place. They have cited a legal judgement  (Cohen v Sellar [1926] 1 K.B. 536) but I 
still dont agree this proves that Mr Ss gift of the ring was conditional. Secondly, the 
marriage did eventually  take place and there  was no suggestion or belief at the time of loss 
that it wouldnt. Therefore, I consider it reasonable for UKI to say that, at the time of loss, the 
ring belonged to Mrs S.
there was unconditional cover  for specified items
Mr and Mrs S point  out that the policy offers cover for accidental loss of your personal 
possessions and, under a separate bullet  point, any other items listed  on your schedule  
under 'Personal possessions'. They  argue that because the ring was listed on the policy 
schedule (albeit,  not under the heading  of Personal possessions), it was not subject to the 
policy definition of your  personal possessions. Instead, it was automatically covered 
regardless of who owned it or was wearing  it.
I acknowledge that the ring, along with a watch,  was listed  on the policy  schedule  sent to 
Mr S. However, this was under the heading of Specified items, not Personal possessions.  
I therefore dont  accept Mr and Mrs Ss argument.
Mr and Mrs S say that nonetheless the list headed Specified items is clearly  the list to 
which the separate bullet point is referring. However, there is a note on the schedule  
alongside the listed items which indicates that the policy section dealing with personal 
possessions is still applicable. I therefore  consider there was no suggestion it was UKIs 
intention to offer cover  for the items without reference to the policys  definition of your  
personal possessions.
UKI breached Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) rules  
Mr and Mrs S refer to various ICOBS  rules which they believe UKI breached. Essentially, 
this relates to when  Mr S added the ring to his policy. UKI assumed that Mrs S was normally 
living at the property. However, it didnt specifically ask Mr S about this, nor did it otherwise 
draw his attention  to the policys requirement. Mr and Mrs S therefore believe that UKI was 
at fault and that it shouldnt be allowed to benefit  from its wrongdoing.
I acknowledge that UKI didnt ask Mr S about Mrs Ss living arrangements, nor did it direct 
him to the terms of the policy. However,  while it would have been helpful if UKI had done 
this, I consider it wasnt obliged to do so. The policy had been sold on a non-advised basis.  
Mr S already  had the policy document. I consider it was incumbent on him to check the 
terms of the policy  to ensure that he was seeking to insure something for which he would be 
eligible to claim in the event of its loss. Furthermore, even if UKI had drawn  attention to the 
clause, Im not sure it would have changed  anything  given  Mr Ss belief that Mrs S was 
normally living with him and that he was thus complying with it in any case.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs S. I accept it must  be very upsetting to lose a piece of 
jewellery which had such significant financial and sentimental value, and then find that there 
was no insurance  cover  for its loss. Overall, however,  I consider that it was fair for UKI to 
decline the claim.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
UKI accepted my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN88510754Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept my provisional decision.  They submitted a lengthy  response 
which argued that UKI had shown a number  of failings and broken various ICOBS rules, 
leading to the conclusion that it was unfair  for it to decline  the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should not be upheld.
Mr and Mrs Ss response to my provisional decision was long but I also found it convoluted. 
I was therefore not easily  able to summarise it above. However,  I have read and considered 
all their points.  For the most  part, I believe they are re-raising points which  they had already 
made and which I addressed in my provisional decision. However, where I can see that they 
have raised fresh arguments, I have sought  to address these below.
Mr and Mrs S say that UKI acted in bad faith by allowing Mr S to insure the ring even it knew  
the policy wasnt suitable for his needs. However,  I consider that UKI didnt  know  the policy  
wasnt suitable for Mr Ss needs until after the loss of the ring when it discovered that Mrs S 
didnt normally live at Mr Ss address. I therefore dont accept that UKI acted in bad faith.
Mr and Mrs S say it was clear from phrases which Mr S used when he spoke to UKI to 
insure the ring, that Mrs S was normally living  with him. They also say that this didnt prevent 
Mrs S from also renting a flat with her sister. This being the case, they consider it was 
unnecessary for Mr S to have to provide  evidence  that Mrs S normally lived with him when 
he made his claim. However, while it was clear  from the telephone  discussion that Mrs S 
spent some time at Mr Ss address, I dont consider that Mr S made it clear that she normally 
lived there. I agree that she could normally live at Mr Ss address while also renting a flat 
with her sister. However,  I consider that once UKI had been  made  aware of the flat rental, it 
was reasonable  for it to ask Mr S to show that Mrs S normally  lived with him, which he was 
unable to do.
Mr and Mrs S say that they travelled to work  together  by minicab  and have suggested they 
might be able to provide  evidence of this from the office security camera.  They  say they can 
provide evidence the minicab was booked from Mr Ss address and it would  have been  
unfeasible for Mrs S to have been  picked  up from her sisters flat on the way. They say this 
would show that they normally lived together. However, while such  evidence  may have 
helped their case, they failed to provide it to UKI and still havent provided it now.  I also note 
that they previously  indicated  that they travelled  to work using public transport.
Mr and Mrs S continue  to argue that the ring always belonged to Mr S. They  have referred to 
phrases used by Mr S when he rang UK to insure  the ring as evidence of this. However, 
while Mr S did use the expression  my ring, he also used the expression my fiances ring. 
I consider that Mr S did not make  clear to UKI that the ring would remain  his possession 
under a conditional agreement or otherwise. I therefore remain of the opinion that it was 
reasonable for UKI to say the ring belonged  to Mrs S.
 
Mr and Mrs S point  to certain  things  which UKIs  representative said at the time the cover  
was taken out which they think indicates it was an advised sale. However,  Im satisfied the 
representative was simply making Mr S aware  of the extent of cover available and answering  
his direct questions about  the policy. I dont agree that this made  it an advised sale.
Ref: DRN88510755Mr and Mrs S point  out that when the cover  was taken out, UKI specifically asked Mr S 
where the ring would be kept when it wasnt worn  and then explained to him that it would  
need to be stored in a safe for cover to apply. They say UKI had a similar responsibility to 
ask about Mrs Ss living arrangements. However,  the requirement to keep  the unworn ring in 
a safe was contained in an endorsement which was added to the policy. UKI wouldnt have 
been prepared  to insure the ring had it not been  able to add this endorsement and so it was 
necessary for it to highlight this to Mr S. This doesnt mean that UKI was required to confirm  
all the normal policy terms and conditions  which  would apply to any claim.  
Mr and Mrs S say that if UKI was aware  at the time the cover was taken out that the ring 
belonged to Mrs S, and that she wasnt named on the policy, it should have taken steps to 
establish her living  arrangements  rather  than simply assure Mr S in response to his 
questions that the policy  would provide cover  if the ring were to be lost. I understand 
Mr and Mrs Ss point.  But, as I explained in my provisional decision,  while  I consider it would 
have been helpful if UKI had done this, it wasnt obliged to do so given that the sale had 
been on a non-advised  basis.  Instead, it was up to Mr S to ensure that the policy  was 
suitable for him given his situation.
Mr and Mrs S dispute my assumption that Mr S would still have taken out the cover even if 
UKI had explained  the normally living clause  to him; they say I cant predict what would  
have happened. I agree I cant be sure what would  have happened and that is why in my 
provisional decision I said that I wasnt sure it would necessarily have resulted in Mr S doing  
anything different. But in any case,  the action which Mr S might have taken in such  
circumstances is not crucial to my decision that UKI did nothing wrong.
In summary,  I again sympathise with Mr and Mrs S and can understand their frustration. 
However, the situation is that the policy insures  the possessions  of the policyholder  (which  
was Mr S) and those  normally  living with him. Mr S cant show  that Mrs S was normally  living  
with him so once Mr S gave her the ring, he had no insurable interest in it. It was up to Mrs S 
to insure the ring through  the insurance  policy she held on the flat she rented with her sister.  
It is a very unfortunate situation but I cant reasonably say that UKI has been  unfair.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8851075