K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs T says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ts signed credit application. On it there  is a section related to 
PPI  where Mrs T has signed  to say she wanted the policy.  And theres nothing on the 
form to suggest the policy was compulsory. So on balance  I think its likely NatWest  
made it clear that Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why she no longer remembers  this.
 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt  have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs T got the information she needed to decide  if it was 
right for her
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Mrs T says she wouldve received some sick pay at the time the policy was sold. She 
also says she couldve relied on her husband to help make her repayments. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she wouldve  received   and for up to 12 
months if she was unable to work because of accident or sickness.  It also wouldve paid 
out for up to 12 months if she lost her job. And having the policy meant she wouldnt 
have to rely on her husband  whose ability to help would depend on his own 
circumstances at any given time.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover. So I dont think Mrs T has lost out as a result  of anything NatWest  did wrong. 
Ref: DRN86305382my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8630538