K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that J.P. Morgan Europe  Limited  (JP) wont  refund transactions  that she
says she didnt make.
background
Mrs S has a Post Office Card Account, provided by JP. In January and February 2017, there 
were a number of withdrawals made from cash machines and over the counter at a branch 
of the Post Office. Mrs S told JP that she didnt make these transactions herself. She said 
that she had been supporting a former neighbour (who Ill call P) with drug addiction 
problems. She felt it was P who made the withdrawals without her authority or knowledge.
Mrs S told JP that she felt P had been  able to watch her enter  her PIN when they were  out 
shopping together and had then taken her card when shed been in Mrs Ss home.
JP didnt  think that it could  be held liable for the transactions here. It said that Mrs Ss
genuine card and correct PIN had been  used for each of the transactions.  It added  that P 
had been able to see her PIN when Mrs S entered it. JP felt that this meant that Mrs S hadnt  
followed the terms and conditions of the account  and hadnt  taken  sufficient steps to protect 
her account.
The disputed transactions are listed  below:
Date Amount Type
6 January 2017 £50 Post Office withdrawal
9 January 2017 £200 ATM withdrawal
9 January 2017 £50 ATM withdrawal
10 January 2017 £200 ATM withdrawal
11 January 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
17 January 2017 £200 ATM withdrawal
18 January 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
20 January 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
9 February 2017 £200 ATM withdrawal
9 February 2017 £50 ATM withdrawal
10 February 2017 £100 Post Office withdrawal
11 February 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
22 February 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
24 February 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
Mrs S wasnt  happy with this and brought her complaint here, where  one of our investigators 
looked into it for her. He felt that Mrs S had been consistent and persuasive in her version of 
events and she hadnt been sufficiently  negligent  in letting these transactions  take place. 
So he felt itd be fair for JP to refund  these.
JP disagreed. It noted that Mrs S was disputing all of the transactions made in January and
February 2017, which would mean she wasnt using the account at all during these months.
It felt this was unusual. It also noted that the pattern  of the withdrawals wasnt  unusual  for
Mrs Ss account and that it didnt follow the usual  pattern of fraudulent transactions. JP also 
mentioned that Mrs S had a history  of changing her PIN number and requesting new cards, 
which would suggest  she didnt take care of her account details.
Ref: DRN89657402I issued a provisional decision in January 2019  where I said that I thought JP should refund 
the transactions Mrs S was disputing. Ive attached  a copy of this decision as it forms part of 
this final decision.  I outlined the relevant considerations which I based my provisional 
assessment on and explained  why I felt these meant it was fair for JP to refund these in the 
individual circumstances  here.
Mrs S accepted my provisional decision. But JP was disappointed in my decision.  
It responded to say that it still felt Mrs S had been  negligent  here,  highlighting in particular:
Mrs S moved away from the area in November  2016 but chose to then return to the 
area where she lived with P, without changing  her address. So she must have 
allowed P to have access to her home  again  to enable P to have made the 
transactions here.
Mrs S uses her account frequently and yet the only two months she didnt was when 
the disputed transactions took place.
JP had no record that Mrs S was a vulnerable customer.
Mrs S hasnt  complied with the terms and conditions by not keeping her card safe for 
the two months  when  it was used.
The type of account here is very limited  in its facilities  it can only be used to receive 
funds from the government, to be withdrawn in a post office. The card and PIN must 
both be present and the card cannot  be cloned.
So the case has been passed back to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering whats  fair and 
reasonable Ive taken  account of all the relevant  information provided to me by both parties 
to the complaint and the relevant law and regulations, guidance,  codes of practice  and good 
industry practice.
And where  there is a dispute  about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, on what  
I consider is most likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence.
Ive carefully considered  all that JP has said here. But having done  so, I still remain  of the 
opinion that I outlined in some detail  in my provisional decision (attached)  that, on balance,  
Mrs S hasnt been grossly  negligent here and that JP should refund the transactions.  
Ill cover  the additional points  that JP has raised in response  to my PD.
JP has highlighted that Mrs S moved away from the area but then,  when she returned, let P 
back into her house. I see the point  JP is making  here, but as I said in my provisional 
decision, she returned to the area for personal  reasons.  These werent related to P. Instead,  
at this point, Mrs S says she didnt  suspect that anything was wrong  or that she should be 
overly cautious around P  who at this point was still a friend and someone she was helping.
Ref: DRN89657403I accept it appears coincidental that the only time Mrs S says she didnt use her account  was 
when these disputed  transactions  were made. Weve asked Mrs S a number of questions  
around this and, while I accept it seems  coincidental on the face of it  Mrs S has given what  
I think is a persuasive and consistent reason  that she wasnt  using or checking her account 
at this time.  And Ive seen  statements from the other  account  shes  mentioned, which  
support that she was using the money from this account at the time. So Ive accepted  what 
she says on balance here.
JPs maintained that Mrs S has breached the terms and conditions of the account by not 
keeping her card safe, effectively saying that she has been  grossly negligent. As Ive 
explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think she has. She may not have acted as JP 
expected her to and hasnt acted as quickly and promptly as other  customers  perhaps would 
either. But Mrs Ss circumstances are particularly  unique.  I realise  JP didnt know  Mrs S was 
vulnerable, but that doesnt  affect my view of whether  she acted with gross  negligence here. 
Instead, I remain persuaded  by what she says has happened. So, on balance and in these 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that Mrs S acted with a lack of care that goes beyond  
ordinary negligence.
So overall, while Ive considered all that JP has said in response to my provisional decision, 
Im still satisfied that Mrs S didnt authorise  these  transactions  and didnt  act with intent or 
gross negligence in letting them happen. It follows that I think its fair that JP refunds these to 
her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right J.P. Morgan Europe 
Limited should refund £4,650 (as itemised  elsewhere in this decision). This being all of the 
relevant transactions that Mrs S has disputed here. It should also ensure  that any adverse 
information recorded on Mrs Ss credit  file relating to these transactions is removed.
In making this refund J.P. Morgan Europe Limited,  in accordance with the terms and 
conditions applicable to Mrs Ss account,  is entitled to withhold up to £50. If it exercises this 
right, I consider  that it would  be fair and reasonable for it to inform  Mrs S of its decision to do 
so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89657404COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs S complains that J.P. Morgan  Europe Limited (JP)  wont refund transactions  that she says she 
didnt make.
background
Mrs S has a Post Office  Card Account, provided  by JP. In January  and February  2017, there were  a 
number of withdrawals made from cash machines and over the counter at a branch of the Post Office. 
Mrs S told JP that she didnt make these transactions herself. She said that she had been supporting 
a former  neighbour (who  Ill call P) with drug addiction problems. She felt it was P who made  the 
withdrawals without her authority or knowledge.
Mrs S told JP that she felt P had been able to watch her enter her PIN when they were out shopping 
together and had then taken her card when shed been  in Mrs Ss home. 
JP didnt think  that it could  be held liable for the transactions  here. It said that Mrs Ss genuine card 
and correct PIN had been used for each of the transactions. It added  that P had been able to see her 
PIN when Mrs S entered it. JP felt that this meant that Mrs S hadnt followed the terms and conditions 
of the account and hadnt taken sufficient steps to protect her account.
The disputed transactions are listed below:
Date Amount Type
6 January 2017 £50 Post Office withdrawal
9 January 2017 £200 ATM withdrawal
9 January 2017 £50 ATM withdrawal
10 January 2017 £200 ATM withdrawal
11 January 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
17 January 2017 £200 ATM withdrawal
18 January 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
20 January 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
9 February 2017 £200 ATM withdrawal
9 February 2017 £50 ATM withdrawal
10 February 2017 £100 Post Office withdrawal
11 February 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
22 February 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
24 February 2017 £600 Post Office withdrawal
Mrs S wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint  here,  where one of our investigators looked 
into it for her. He felt that Mrs S had been consistent and persuasive in her version of events and she 
hadnt been sufficiently negligent in letting  these transactions take place. So he felt itd be fair for JP 
to refund these.
JP disagreed.  It noted  that Mrs S was disputing all of the transactions  made in January and February 
2017, which would mean she wasnt using  the account at all during these months. It felt this was 
unusual. It also noted that the pattern of the withdrawals  wasnt unusual for Mrs Ss account and that 
it didnt follow the usual pattern of fraudulent transactions. JP also mentioned that Mrs S had a history 
of changing her PIN number and requesting  new cards, which would  suggest  she didnt take care of 
her account  details.
Ref: DRN89657405So the complaint was passed to me to decide. On review, we asked Mrs S for more information about 
the circumstances here, including:
why Mrs S wasnt using her account when  the transactions  took place  and didnt  report the 
transactions sooner   Mrs S said she was using another account and reported  the 
transactions as soon  as she could  in light of her personal circumstances at the time
more information relating to Mrs Ss whereabouts at the time the transactions  happened  she 
explained that she moved away from the area she was living but returned,  which was when 
she came into contact with P again
how Mrs S kept her card and security  details safe and where she stored these   she 
explained that she kept it in what  she thought was a safe place, in a vanity box in her home
my provisional  decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  whats fair and reasonable Ive taken  account of 
all the relevant information provided  to me by both parties to the complaint and the relevant law and 
regulations, guidance, codes of practice and good industry practice.
And where there is a dispute  about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory, 
I reach my decision  on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, on what  I consider is most  likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence.
relevant considerations
The disputed transactions here were made in January  and February 2017.  So the Payment  Services 
Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009) are particularly  relevant  to my provisional  decision about  what  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint as these  applied to situations like this at the 
time.
The relevant sections  of the PSRs 2009 say:
Consent and withdrawal  of consent
55. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been authorised by the payer for
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given  its consent to
(a)the execution of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments
57.(1)  A payment  service  user to whom  a payment  instrument has been issued must
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its issue 
and use; and
(b)notify the payment  service provider  in the agreed manner and without undue delay on 
becoming aware of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised use of the payment 
instrument.
(2) The payment service  user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable  steps to 
keep its personalised security features  safe.
Evidence  on authentication and execution of payment  transactions
60.(1)  Where a payment  service user
(a) denies  having authorised  an executed payment transaction; or
Ref: DRN89657406(b) claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service  provider to prove that the payment transaction was authenticated, 
accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts  and not affected by a 
technical breakdown or some other  deficiency.
(2) In paragraph (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure by which a payment service 
provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including  its personalised  security 
features.
(3) Where a payment service user denies having authorised an executed payment transaction, the 
use of a payment instrument  recorded by the payment service provider  is not in itself necessarily 
sufficient to prove either that
(a) the payment  transaction was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted fraudulently or failed with intent or gross negligence to comply
with regulation 57.
Payment service  providers liability for unauthorised  payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised  or incorrectly  executed payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment  transaction  was not authorised  in accordance with 
regulation 55, the payment  service provider  must immediately
(a) refund the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction to the payer; and
(b) where applicable,  restore the debited payment  account to the state it would have
been in had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised payment transaction
62.(1)  Subject to paragraphs (2) , the payer is liable  up to a maximum  of £50 for any losses 
incurred in respect  of unauthorised payment transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the payment  instrument 
safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred  in respect of an unauthorised payment transaction where 
the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently;  or
(b) has with intent or gross  negligence failed to comply with regulation  57.
The account  terms  and conditions (at the time of the disputed transactions) say:
8.4 If someone else uses your card (or your card or account details) without  your
permission:
(a)Generally you will only be liable for any withdrawals made before you notify us under  
condition 3.1;
(b)However, where you were fraudulent you will be fully liable for all withdrawals even if you 
have notified us of them;
(c)Otherwise, the most you will be liable for before you notify us under condition 3.1 is £50, 
unless, with intent or with gross negligence  you:
Ref: DRN89657407 do not tell us as soon  as you suspect someone has discovered your PIN or is 
misusing your card;  break your obligations in conditions 2 or 3.1;
 or you otherwise  fail to comply with your other obligations under  these Terms  and
Conditions and your failure is serious  enough  that it directly leads to loss or fraud.
8.5 If you become aware of any unauthorised or incorrect withdrawal you must notify us immediately 
by phoning the customer service helpline on 03457 22 33 44 or textphone 03457  22 33 55 and, 
unless we do not have  to because  condition 8.4 applies  to all or part of the amount, we will refund  the 
amount of any unauthorised or incorrect withdrawal to your account  and, where  applicable, restore  
your account  to the position  it would  have  been  in had the unauthorised or incorrect withdrawal  not 
taken place. If you do not notify  us without undue delay and in any event within 13 months of the debit 
date, we will not be liable  to refund the unauthorised  or incorrect withdrawal and restore  your account 
in this way.
So, the relevant considerations  I have  outlined provide that generally unless a payment transaction is 
authorised then the bank has no authority to debit the customers account. And the bank is generally 
liable to refund unauthorised transactions (subject to any provision in the account terms and 
conditions to make the account holder liable for up to £50) unless  the account  holder has acted  
fraudulently, or acted with intent or gross  negligence  in failing to comply  with their obligations set out 
in regulation  57 of the PSRs  2009   which says the consumer should comply  with their account terms 
and conditions.
Taking these  relevant considerations into account I think there are two key questions  for me to 
address. Firstly, did Mrs S authorise the transactions shes disputing?  Secondly,  if I find that she 
didnt, did she act with intent or gross negligence in failing to use the card in accordance with the 
terms and conditions?
were the disputed transactions authorised by Mrs S?
Im satisfied from the evidence JP has provided that whoever made the ATM withdrawals here had 
both Mrs Ss genuine card and PIN. The records show that the transactions  were made  with no 
incorrect PIN attempts. I say this because JP has shown that the withdrawals were made and 
authenticated at ATMs, where  the genuine chip in the card was read and the correct corresponding  
PIN was entered.
And from what weve been  told, the withdrawals over the counter at the Post Office  wouldve  needed 
the actual card and PIN too. So again,  Im satisfied that whoever made  these  withdrawals had both 
the genuine card and PIN in order to make them.
So Ive gone on to consider the possible explanations  for how the disputed transactions  were made 
using the genuine  card and PIN. These  are that:
Mrs S used her card and PIN to make the withdrawals;
someone with Mr Ss authority used her card and PIN to make the withdrawals;  or
someone was able to obtain Mrs Ss card and PIN and use them  to make the withdrawals, 
without her authority  or consent.
Ive considered which I think  is the most likely, taking into account JPs records and Mrs Ss 
description of events. I cant know for sure what occurred; its a decision I must  make on the balance 
of evidence. Having considered the evidence I think its more likely  than not that
Mrs S didnt make  or authorise  the withdrawals  and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN89657408Mrs S has been clear  and consistent  in her version of events. She is a vulnerable person  and Ive 
seen a letter  from a support worker confirming  this. I think that whats more likely  than not is that shes 
been taken advantage of by P. She says P used to be her neighbour and was also a vulnerable 
person dealing  with drug addiction  issues.
Mrs S was trying  to help P and would  often go shopping with her. She thinks  that P would have seen 
her enter  her PIN when they were out shopping. Mrs S moved in November 2016, but due to personal 
reasons returned to the area she previously lived in, which is when she came into contact  with P 
again and when the disputed transactions happened.
Mrs S goes onto say that she would often let P into her home when she turned up asking  to borrow 
things. Mrs S would then often leave the room  where P was to get her whatever shed asked for. 
Mrs S stored her card in a storage box in a particular  room in her home. Mrs S says P took the card 
when she was elsewhere  in the house and left P alone. Mrs S says that its at this point that P 
wouldve been  able to take the card, use it and then replace it.
Mrs S says that P took the card from her and then used it to make transactions over a period of time. 
Mrs S has told us that she was having a difficult time herself in January and February  2017, so she 
didnt notice what was going on with her account.  This was especially as she had another account  
that she was using at this time which  weve seen evidence of. This account had an available balance 
in and she was regularly using this too. Mrs S also had to move from the address  JP held for her 
because of other  personal reasons unrelated  to P, so wasnt using the account  as she usually  would 
during this time. Nor was she receiving statements either.
Mrs S didnt suspect  anything  was wrong at this time.  She had another account  with another bank 
shes shown she was using  at the time, so she didnt notice that money  had been taken  from her 
account with JP as quickly as if this were her main account.
So overall here,  Im persuaded that Mrs S has given us a consistent account  of whats happened 
here. Thats  been  backed  up by the fact that shes reported the incident  here to the police and given  a 
crime reference  number to JP. That must have been quite a difficult decision for Mrs S to make  as P 
was clearly someone she had tried to help in the past.  I wouldnt expect  her to have reported this 
incident and P to the police if she had authorised this payments herself or authorised P to use her 
account. It follows that, on balance, Im satisfied that Mrs S didnt  authorise these transactions.
Did Mrs S fail with intent  or gross  negligence  to comply  with the obligations set out in
Regulations 57 of the PSRs 2009?
Alongside the other terms and conditions of the account,  which explain,  more generally what
Mrs S shouldnt do with her card and PIN, JP has drawn  Mrs Ss attention to the following specific 
section in the terms and conditions:
2.3 If you suspect  that someone else knows your PIN, you must  go to a Post Office  branch to change  
your PIN as soon as possible. You can also call the customer service helpline on 03457  22 33 44 or 
textphone 03457 22 33 55 to discuss what we can do to help you.
I understand the intent behind  JPs terms and conditions  here. Ive considered these  but Mrs S didnt 
suspect that P knew  her PIN. In fact, shes been clear that she trusted P for a long period of time and 
had no reason to think she would be trying  to watch her enter her PIN. She acknowledges that she 
knew about Ps drug addiction  problems,  but says she still trusted her and wanted to help her. 
So I dont think Mrs S has acted with intent in not complying  with the terms and conditions.
The fact that Mrs S didnt realise  P was able to watch her enter her PIN may have been careless on 
Mrs Ss part, but I dont  think that its fair to say she acted  with gross negligence.  She trusted  P at the 
time and so wouldnt have thought to take any extra precautions to protect  her security information  or 
card. And I think many  people would have acted in the same way that she did around a person  that 
she knew and believed she could trust.
Ref: DRN89657409Im also satisfied that Mrs S has adhered to the terms and conditions of her account  terms of keeping 
her card and PIN safe. She hasnt given  her card or PIN to someone else and shes told us she kept it 
in what  she thought was a safe place   in a vanity box that she kept in her home.
She also notified JP as soon  as she could. I acknowledge there was a delay of a few months in Mrs S 
doing this, but shes explained thats because she was in and out of hospital  around this time. I dont 
think its fair to infer from her delay in noticing and reporting  this that she was aware of the 
transactions before  she says she noticed them. The PSRs say that Mrs S should  report  the matter to 
JP without undue delay on becoming  aware  of the disputed transactions  and Im persuaded  that 
Mrs S did this.
JP has also said that Mrs S has been irresponsible in the past with her cards as she has a record of 
reporting numerous lost cards. But Mrs S has said that this was because she was in a difficult  position  
with someone else she knew, where they would destroy cards to financially disadvantage her. So, 
even taking into account all that JP has said here, in the overall circumstances, I think  Mrs S didnt act 
with gross negligence here. So overall,  Im satisfied that Mrs S didnt authorise these  transactions  and 
didnt act with intent or gross  negligence in letting them happen. It follows  that I think its fair that JP 
refunds these to her.
my provisional  decision
My Provisional Decision  is that Im minded to uphold  this complaint. To put things right
J.P. Morgan  Europe Limited should  refund  all of the transactions that Mrs S has disputed here and 
that Ive itemised elsewhere in this decision.  It should also ensure that any adverse  information  
recorded on Mrs Ss credit  file relating to these transactions is removed. 
In making this refund  J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, in accordance with the terms and conditions 
applicable to Mrs Ss account, are entitled  to withhold up to £50. If it exercises this right, I consider 
that it would be fair and reasonable for it to inform Mrs S of its decision  to do so.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8965740