K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about  the way AWP P&C SA dealt with their claim under 
their travel policy following  the curtailment of their cruise when Mrs L fell ill.
background
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs L went on a cruise in the Far East with a cruise  company, which  I 
shall call Q. Shortly  after joining the ship after a long flight, Mrs L became ill. So she had to 
spend a night in the ships medical facility being  treated by the ships  doctors. They  decided  
the next day that she needed more specialised care and arranged for Mr and Mrs L to leave 
the ship and go to be treated in a hospital  on land. 
Mrs L was kept in hospital for a few days.  Then AWP arranged  for them  to be flown  back  to 
the UK. This disappointed Mr and Mrs L, as they would have preferred to re-join their cruise 
ship. 
Mr and Mrs L then made  a claim for curtailment of their cruise  and the costs  associated with 
that. They also complained to Q and AWP about how they were treated.  AWP paid their 
claim but as a curtailment  claim, not the loss of a holiday claim as Mr L felt it should do. Mr 
and Mrs L also complained strenuously about  their treatment from Q. 
Mrs and Mrs L remained dissatisfied and brought their complaint  to us. The investigator 
thought AWP paid the correct amount for Mr and Mrs Ls claim.  However,  he didnt think  
AWP had kept them  updated appropriately  and thought it should  pay them £200 
compensation.
AWP didnt respond.  Mr and Mrs L didnt  think AWP had paid enough so their complaint  has 
been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint, but along the same lines as the investigator did. Ill now explain why.
I can see from reading Mr and Mrs Ls correspondence that the curtailment  of this holiday 
and Qs decision for Mrs L to go to hospital  on land was deeply  upsetting  and frustrating. 
That decision by Q to send Mrs L off to hospital appears to have effectively curtailed the 
cruise and forced Mr and Mrs L to have  to go back to the UK once Mrs L recovered 
sufficiently after a few days. 
However as the investigator explained, we cant consider anything that Q did or decided. 
This is because Q isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and therefore I have no 
power to consider anything it did or didnt  do as regards Mr and Mrs L. So I cant  consider  
anything to do with Qs medical team requesting Mrs L to be treated in a hospital on land. 
Neither either can I consider anything to do with the issues Mr L has raised about the 
uncomfortable journey that Mr and Mrs L endured getting to the ship.  That has nothing to do 
with AWP at all, as it wasnt involved in planning this holiday for Mr and Mrs L, it was simply 
involved in providing  a travel policy for anything that went  wrong.  
Ref: DRN87408182So all I can consider  is what AWP did when  presented with Mr and Mrs Ls request for 
medical assistance and subsequent claim. And from AWPs file, I can see it gave the right 
medical assistance provided by its terms and conditions in the policy.  Given  Mr and Mrs L 
were already  on Qs ship this meant their holiday started. So whilst  of course Mrs Ls illness  
changed things,  AWPs decision  to treat this as a curtailment  instead of a loss of holiday was 
correct.
This is because in the policy  it says cancellation only happens  if the holiday hasnt begun  
and curtailment happens after the holiday began. And clearly,  because Mr and Mr L were  
on the ship when  Mrs L became  ill, their cruise had already  begun.  
So the limits  of AWPs duties to Mr and Mrs L was simply assisting  with Mrs L getting 
medical treatment on land and then reimbursing  any items covered under  the policy, which  
Mr and Mrs L lost as result of Mrs L becoming ill and having to come back to the UK. 
I can see that AWP paid the cruise  cost for 13 unused days less the curtailment excess.  This 
is in line with the policy terms. It also paid the unused car park charges at the airport  in the 
UK. It paid the taxi to the hospital abroad even though it wasnt  covered under the policy  as 
a gesture of goodwill.  It paid the right level of inpatient benefit under the policy for the time 
Mrs L was in hospital abroad. It paid those  medical expenses including  a hospital deposit  
less the medical  expenses excess. It also again as a gesture  of goodwill sorted out some  
currency exchange issues in Mr and Mrs Ls favour.   
There is the issue of another  taxi fare from the hospital  abroad  to the airport  for Mr and 
Mrs L returning home. AWP agreed to refund this on proof of the receipt, which I note Mr L 
forwarded to AWP.  Therefore, I agree if this hasnt been now refunded  AWP ought  to do so.
In line with the policy conditions, it didnt refund the unused flights  Mr and Mrs L didnt use as 
theyre specifically not covered when AWP paid for Mrs and Mr L to come  home  early.  The 
same is true of on-board  credit as the policy simply didnt  provide  cover for it. Travel polices 
cant cover  every single  eventuality, as otherwise the cost of a travel policy would be very 
expensive and possibly  unaffordable. 
Processing Mr and Mrs Ls claim took AWP time, and its acknowledged at the time of Mr 
and Mrs Ls claim, it was suffering delay issues given the number  of claims it was receiving 
then. And further,  it didnt  actually given Mr and Mrs L its final response letter until November 
when the claim originated  in April. So I agree this caused Mr and Mrs L further  distress  and 
inconvenience could  have been  avoided. I also agree  consequently  that AWP should  pay Mr 
and Mrs L some compensation for this. I consider  the sum of £200 compensation to be fair 
and in line with what I have awarded previously  in other similar cases.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require AWP P&C SA to do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs L the sum of £200  compensation,  if it hasnt  already  done so.
Refund the taxi fare from the hospital abroad to the airport  abroad,  if it hasnt already 
done so. Interest of 8% simple per year should  be added to this sum (if it hasnt yet 
been refunded)  from the date Mr and Mrs L paid it to the date of its refund. If income 
Ref: DRN87408183tax is to be deducted from the interest,  appropriate documentation  should be 
provided to Mr and Mrs L for HMRC  purposes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8740818