K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Santander nor Mr S has provided  any comments  or new information  for me to 
consider. As I havent received anything which requires comment, I see no reason to change  
my provisional decision.
What the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back to Mr S any extra interest  he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr S the extra he paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr S 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
I dont think that the PPI policy was mis-sold   so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Santander UK Plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN83655102Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out a personal loan with Santander in 2010. The application  was completed over the 
internet. At the same  time he was sold a PPI policy which would have covered the repayments on his 
loan for up to 12 months if he couldnt work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed so the complaint has been passed 
to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken  this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im considering  not upholding
Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain  why.
Santander had to make  it clear that the policy  was optional and Mr S had to agree to take it out. And I 
think it did. I say this because Santander  has provided  copies of the internet  pages that it says Mr S 
would have seen when he was making  his application  for the loan and I can see that the pages 
include a section about PPI.
In this section it also asks Mr S to confirm if he would  like to protect  his payments with this cover and 
there is a yes or a no option  to select. As it is quite clear that the cover can be refused  with the 
addition of the no option  I think Mr S would  have  known he didnt have  to take it out if he didnt 
want it.
As this policy  was sold over the internet, Santander didnt  recommend the policy  to Mr S which means 
it didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure that it gave Mr S clear  
enough information to decide for himself if he wanted  this type of cover based on what  he knew of his 
own financial  circumstances.
Our adjudicator said that Santander didnt  give Mr S clear enough information to enable him to make  
an informed decision on whether it was right for him. He said the PPI section on the internet screens 
didnt give him the option to review the full terms before purchasing the policy.
Having looked at this section I can see that it provides a brief explanation of the PPI policy, 
including information  such as the deferral period and the maximum number of months that will be 
paid for each claim. From looking at this summary  I think Mr S would have had an understanding of 
broadly what  the policy provided  cover for and what he could expect to receive if he was to make a 
claim. But these internet  screens  do not include  information about the cost of the policy.  As Mr S 
would need this information  before making a final decision on whether the cover provided value  for 
money I would normally agree that
Santander hadnt done enough to make this clear.
However, I have also been  provided with a copy of Mr Ss credit agreement which was sent to him 
following his successful application for the loan. On this document  I can see that it not only details the 
breakdown of costs for the loan, as you would  expect, it also details  the monthly  premium  Mr S would 
Ref: DRN83655103pay for the PPI and the overall  amount he would be paying in premiums if he kept the policy for the full 
length of the loan. And immediately below the information about  the PPI costs, there is a section in 
which Mr S had to tick to confirm he wanted  this cover  and also a box to sign to confirm his 
agreement. If Mr S had decided  that the cost wasnt acceptable to him, and hadnt ticked and signed  
to confirm  he wanted the cover, I dont think the PPI would have  been added to the loan. So I think Mr 
S could have declined the PPI at this point if he was unhappy with the costs and it wouldnt have 
affected his loan in any way.
Its possible that not all of the information Santander gave Mr S was as clear as it should  have been. 
But I think Mr S chose  to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it doesnt look 
like he would have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  such as having 
unusual working arrangements. And this policy didnt exclude claims for pre-existing  conditions so 
the fact that he did have  a medical condition prior to the sale wouldnt  have prevented him from 
making a claim.
Possibly the most significant  difference between  what  Mr S thought he had bought and what he might 
have expected  were the terms for claiming accident and sickness  Mr S could only claim if he was 
unable to do both his normal work or any other paid work  which his training, education or ability 
qualified him to do. If Mr S had known  this, it may have played into his thinking  about what he would 
have done. And I accept it may have given  him pause for thought  although given  Mr Ss 
circumstances, on balance I still think he would have been interested  in taking out the cover. So I 
dont think that better information about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Santander doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should  have told Mr S about that. Because Santander  didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has basically  offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said, including what he has said about not needing the policy 
due to his sick pay benefits  and other  means. But as Ive already explained, it was for Mr S to decide 
if the policy  was right for him, based on what he knew already  about his personal circumstances. And 
if Mr S thought that his sick pay or other means were enough
to see him through any difficult financial times then it was up to him to decline to take the cover.
what the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit  share  it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium. Santander  should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest he paid because  of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr S the extra he paid each month because  the commission  and 
profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should  also pay Mr S 8%* 
simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont think  that the PPI policy was mis-sold   so Santander UK Plc does not have  to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ref: DRN83655104But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN8365510