K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with his claim under his 
motor policy.
background 
Mr S was involved  in an accident  in 2016 on holiday, when he was towing  a caravan. This 
damaged the cars tow bar and where it attached to his car. His car went in for a repair but 
then developed further issues  throughout 2017  and 2018. 
Mr S mainly  complained to the repairer  during this time. He then brought a complaint to us in 
September 2018 but AXA needed to investigate his complaint. The repairer  said it couldnt 
fix his car. AXA then referred  the matter to the main  manufacturer. The requisite eight weeks 
passed without  things progressing. Then AXA said Mr S car was now deemed to be a total 
loss as the main  manufacturer  couldnt  repair it either and it offered to pay the market  value 
of his car to Mr S, which it estimated to be £12,000.
Mr S was unhappy with this. Further, when he went to get some  personal belongings from 
his car, they had been stolen.
The adjudicator was of the view that AXAs valuation of Mr Ss car was fair, as it was more  
than what the trade  guides indicated it should be. AXA had added a further  £700  beyond the 
figures in the trade guide for the tow bar and LED lights. Given  the difficulties with the repair, 
she didnt think it was unreasonable for AXA to have written the car off. She noted AXA had 
paid £186.05 for the missing personal belongings,  which she thought was reasonable. AXA 
also reimbursed the road tax £112.50 plus the insurance for the courtesy car of £23.52  and a 
£70 tax fare charge. 
Mr S said due to the amount of time that he had to spend on the matter, this caused a 
significant loss of earnings. AXA said it needed further information from his accountant 
before it could consider this but that it was willing  to consider it. In the meantime, AXA paid 
Mr S £500  compensation, which the adjudicator thought was reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree so his complaint has been  passed  to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
There is always a significant  level of inconvenience following an accident.  Here, theres no 
doubt the accident caused damage that was difficult and protracted  to repair  and even then 
wasnt effectively repairable. However,  most of this took place between Mr S and the 
repairer direct and AXA wasnt always aware of the continuing issues. This service and I can 
only look at what AXA did or didnt do, as its AXA who is regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
Therefore I dont think AXA did anything wrong  in finally deciding Mr Ss care simply needed 
to be written off given the repair  issues. Under the policy, what is insured is the market value 
of the car and nothing more. AXA correctly consulted the trade guides for valuations  of Mr 
Ref: DRN89326782Ss car. As the adjudicator explained,  these guides are independent and contain the actual 
selling prices rather than the asking prices.  
The guide  showed the value of Mr Ss car was £11,300 and to this AXA added  £700 for the 
tow bar and LED lights. I consider this more  than reasonable. I understand that Mr S has 
said he cant find a car for that amount with the same specifications.  But what is insured  is 
the market value of his car, not a replacement vehicle. Further,  usually extras  like tow bars 
and LED dont form part of the market value, as well as such things like new tyres or new 
parts, therefore I consider AXA was generous here, to include  the extra payment of £700 in 
the market value payment. 
As regards  the courtesy car, under  the policy AXA were only obliged  to provide a car similar 
to a one-litre car and only provide one for a maximum  of 14 days.  So the fact it provided 
such a car and indeed reimbursed the insurance on it, is reasonable. 
AXA also paid the road tax of £122.50 plus a taxi fare of £70 and paid £186.05 for the loss of 
the personal belongings.  All of which I consider  reasonable.
AXA agrees  its service to Mr S could have been better and it upheld Mr S complaint as 
detailed in its final response letter. It also apologised. I think its right that AXA did this, as I 
do understand how protracted  the repairs became, and how this significantly inconvenienced 
Mr S and his family were, as can be seen by the extensive number of telephone  calls Mr S 
has shown he had made. To recognise this, AXA paid Mr S £500 compensation in addition  
to the other payments  listed  above.  I also consider this is reasonable and its in line with 
what I would  have  awarded, had AXA not done this first. 
Mr S has claimed that the amount of time he had to spend in trying to sort things out caused 
him a loss of earnings. I consider it fair that AXA is prepared to consider this on the 
production of further information from Mr S accountant.
Its clear to me that Mr S has had quite  a time of it following this accident, but Im satisfied 
AXA has now recognised  this and made appropriate amends to include considering Mr S 
loss of earning on the receipt for more information from his accountant. Therefore other than 
this I dont consider  needs to do anything more.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN89326783Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8932678