K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think its likely Barclays made it clear  that Mr G didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to 
take it. For example,  his credit card application  had equally noticeable  boxes to tick to say 
either yes or no to PPI. And from what we know, I dont think  Barclays wouldve added  the 
cover unless Mr G indicated  that he wanted it.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check the PPI was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr G got the information  he needed to decide whether  the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take the cover  so it looks to me like Mr G wanted  this type of 
sickness and unemployment cover at the time.  And from what  Ive seen of his circumstances 
at the time, Mr G wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the cover  - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable. 
Also from what  Mr G has told us, his work  sick pay wouldve halved after six months.  For a 
successful disability or unemployment claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for longer  up to 
twelve months. And Mr G didnt have any savings  to help pay his credit card if he lost his job 
or was too sick to work.  Also the PPI benefit  wouldve paid out on top of Mr Gs work  sick 
pay or redundancy entitlement.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
Mr G off taking  the cover.
What Ive said above means Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr G. But Barclays  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:
When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and    
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN80273452Ive thought about everything Mr G has said including what hes said about not needing the 
cover because of his work sick pay and redundancy entitlement.  But, for reasons Ive given 
above, these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr G any extra interest Mr G 
paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr G the difference 
between what Mr G owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mr G 8%* simple 
interest if Mr G paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr G can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8027345