K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) unfairly declined a claim for 
storm damage on his landlords  insurance  policy.
background
Mr S had a property he let to a tenant. It experienced damage to the roof area from strong 
winds and from rain water entering  inside.  Mr S said he rang L&G to report  a claim  for storm 
damage. A visit was arranged the following day to assess repairs.  However the repairer  said 
they couldnt deal with flat roofs and left without making any sort of temporary repair. This 
left Mr Ss tenant in some  distress.
L&G sent a surveyor  to visit the property  and he took photographs  to assess  the damage. 
He said the roof damage had been  caused by wear and tear and wasnt covered. Mr S said 
there hadnt been any leaks  before the storm. And he couldnt  see how the damage  to the 
flat roof or slate-tiled roof werent covered but the internal damage caused  by them was. So 
hed like compensation and reimbursement for the repairs  hed had to pay for himself.
L&Gs loss adjuster reported  that the damage to the roof hadnt been caused by an insured 
event. They  said the adverse weather had highlighted that the roof was in poor condition.  
Nail fatigue  had caused tiles to slip. And there were indications of previous repairs. The 
report said some of the repair work hadnt  been  done properly and gaps had been left 
between the tiles. The flat roof was in poor condition with failing seals  due to age. Other  
deterioration was noted which hadnt yet caused any damage.
L&G said itd reviewed  all the information,  including Mr Ss independent  report. And it felt its 
decision to decline the claim for the damage  to the roof was correct.  But L&G said it would 
cover the internal damage caused  by the water getting into the property.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with L&Gs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She could see the recorded wind speeds for the day in question 
werent sufficiently high enough  to meet L&Gs  requirements for storm damage. This had 
been explained to Mr S when he spoke to the insurance adviser. But because  of the extent  
of the damage  itd agreed to send  someone  to look at the property. Our investigator  felt the 
whole of the claim for storm damage  shouldve been declined, including the internal water 
damage. Mr S didnt  have accidental cover and she thought the internal damage had been 
paid in error by L&G.
Mr S didnt agree. The weather station was some distance from his property and L&G 
wouldnt have lodged  his claim  if storm conditions werent present. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss property  suffered  damage to the roof area which led to rain water causing  internal 
damage. Mr S says the roof was damaged during a storm.  But L&G believes the roof 
damage was caused by wear and tear. So Ive looked carefully at everything Mr S and L&G 
have said.
Ref: DRN84865392In the landlord  insurance policy the section  relating  to storms and extreme weather sets a 
minimum wind speed of 47mph  for adverse weather to be considered a storm. Mr S says he 
was told it was about 44mph although  L&G has provided evidence showing a local maximum 
wind speed of 34mph  on the day in question. But even if the wind speed did peak at around 
44mph it was below  the strength L&G would consider for storm damage.  
L&G did agree to send its loss adjuster because of the extensive  damage Mr S had reported. 
However, the surveyor stated that the roof damage was due to wear and tear and declined  
the claim for that reason.  The roof appeared to have been deteriorating over a period of 
years and there was evidence of previous repair work which  had been  of a poor standard.
Mr Ss landlord insurance policy has a section headed maintaining your property. It reminds 
the policy holder  it is their responsibility to look after and regularly maintain the property. The 
policy is intended to cover against  sudden  and unforeseen events.  It doesnt  cover wear and 
tear or damage that happens gradually  over time. And it suggests policy holders regularly 
check areas prone to wear and tear such as guttering and flat roofs.
I know Mr S says the roof was old but well-maintained and hadnt suffered any leaks  before  
the high winds.  And Mr Ss builder did indicate  the damage might  have  been  caused by high 
winds. But the surveyor stated the roof was in a poor state of repair. The damage  wasnt  
caused by a one-off event. And there  was no evidence  to suggest the wind speed exceeded 
the minimum level for L&G to consider storm damage. 
The policy states  that a well-maintained building should be able to withstand all but the most 
severe weather  events.  And the adverse weather  may have highlighted the poor condition of 
the roof areas. But I dont think L&G has done anything  wrong  in declining  a claim for storm 
damage when  the expert evidence states  that damage wasnt storm related and the wind 
speed wasnt storm force. Any damage to the flat roof caused by slipping tiles would be 
considered accidental damage   which unfortunately is not part of Mr Ss policy  cover.
 
Mr S was also unhappy with the initial attempts to repair the damage.  But the home 
emergency cover is intended  to help with temporary  repairs. And after assessing  the 
damage the repairer felt they were  unable to assist on this occasion.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But based  on everything Ive seen I cant 
really say L&G has done anything wrong. L&G paid for the repairs caused by rain water 
entering the property.  But the recorded  wind speed didnt qualify Mr Ss claim as storm 
damage. And accidental damage cover  to either buildings or contents isnt included  in his 
policy. Ive not seen anything to suggest  L&G should  accept Mr Ss claim for storm damage 
under his landlord insurance policy. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN84865393my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8486539