K822xcomplaint
Miss R has complained about the level of premium  which Vitality Life Limited  said it would 
charge to extend her life assurance  policy.
background 
In 2010, Miss R took out a life assurance policy with Vitality. The policy  was taken out 
through an intermediary  acting on Miss Rs behalf.  The policy  had a seven year term.
In 2017, two months before the policy was due to expire, Miss R rang Vitality and asked how 
much it would be to extend  the policy for a further ten years.  Vitality  said that this would 
initially cost £188  a month, subject to Miss R completing a medical questionnaire to show  
she met underwriting requirements.
Miss R obtained a cheaper quote  for similar cover from Vitality using another intermediary.  
She complained to Vitality that it was charging  her more than it would charge a new 
customer, which she considered to be unfair.
Vitality didnt uphold  her complaint. It said there may be a number of reasons why she was 
given a cheaper quote through another intermediary, including  that the intermediary  may be 
choosing to sacrifice their commission or that the policy may offer slightly different benefits.  
Miss R was unhappy at Vitalitys response. She obtained further  quotes  for Vitality cover, 
including from Vitality  directly and all were cheaper  than the quote  she was originally given. 
She referred  her complaint to us.
When we raised the complaint with Vitality  it asked our adjudicator to provide details of the 
cheaper quotes obtained by Miss R. Having examined these,  it explained that the quotes 
were for a policy with slightly  different benefits  and so couldnt be directly compared with the 
quote it had provided to Miss R. However,  on reviewing the matter  it further  noted  that it had 
calculated this quote incorrectly and that it should  have been  £139.68  a month.  It apologised 
for this error and said it was prepared to offer Miss R a new policy  at this price, subject to her 
completing the medical questionnaire. It also offered £100  compensation for any 
inconvenience caused. 
Our adjudicator was satisfied with Vitalitys explanation and considered  its offer to be fair. 
However, Miss R didnt accept this. She still didnt think Vitality had provided an adequate 
explanation of the difference  between the various  products. She thought the offer of 
compensation was derisory.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  the complaint  
but consider Vitalitys offer to be fair. I shall explain why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we wouldnt normally interfere.
Ref: DRN87699972Vitality has acknowledged  it made  a mistake in providing its quote to Miss R. It based the 
quote on a policy lasting seventeen  years  rather than ten years.  It has now recalculated the 
premium based on the correct length  of term. It has provided evidence of its calculation.  I 
cant share this with Miss R because  it is commercially  sensitive  but I have checked it and 
am satisfied  that it has calculated the premium accurately and fairly. She is being offered the 
same price  for the policy as anyone else in her situation. Vitality  says that it will allow  Miss R 
to take out a new policy for this price  (provided she meets underwriting requirements), which  
I think is fair. 
Vitality has explained  it has more than one life assurance product. Miss R was asking to 
extend the life of her current policy so Vitality provided her with a quote for that product, 
which I think was reasonable. The other quotes she obtained were  for another product with 
slightly different benefits and which  was therefore priced differently.
Vitality has further explained  that there  are options  which can be added to policies which  
involve an upfront discount on the premiums (though these options can also involve a 
subsequent increase in premiums if the policyholder  doesnt  engage  in Vitalitys Healthy 
Living programme). It has shown that these options were included  in some of the cheaper  
quotes subsequently obtained by Miss R, including that from Vitality direct.  However, it has 
explained that these options  can only be added at the start of a policy  and so it couldnt  have 
offered them  to Miss R because she was extending an existing policy.
Finally, Vitality showed that the quotes  from the intermediaries had been reduced because 
the intermediaries had chosen to sacrifice some  or all of their commission whereas Vitality 
was obliged to include commission to Miss Rs original intermediary as part of its quote. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Vitality has explained  why its quote to Miss R, even after being 
corrected, is still more  expensive than the other quotes she obtained.
Miss R has mentioned that she was told by the other  intermediaries that if Vitality had 
already offered her a higher quote, they wouldnt be able to provide cover at their cheaper 
rate. Vitality  says it doesnt know why this should be the case  and Miss R hasnt provided  
any further evidence  to support this. I therefore  cant reasonably conclude that Vitality 
prevented her from accessing the cheaper cover if she had wished.
Vitality has acknowledged  that it made an error  in providing its quote and that this will have 
inconvenienced Miss R. It has offered £100  compensation for this. Im satisfied that this is a 
fair amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Vitality Life Limited to offer Miss R a new ten year policy for the corrected premium (subject 
to her meeting the necessary underwriting requirements) and to pay her £100 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8769997