K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that the reason  National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) turned  down  his 
loan application  was unfair.  He also complains that the bank wrongly addressed  
correspondence to both him and his wife.
background 
Mr S received a notification from NatWest that he was likely to be approved  for a top up to 
his existing personal loan. Mr S applied for the top up but wasnt  successful. He says 
NatWest told him the application failed because hed made it too soon after a previous top 
up application. Mr S considered this was unfair and said hed only applied because  NatWest 
had invited him to.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 21 January 2020. A copy is attached at 
Appendix A and forms part of this final decision.
Mr S responded to say that he accepted  my provisional findings,  but he was no longer 
seeking compensation through  this service for the confidentiality breach.
NatWest said it had nothing to add in response to my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations  from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
substantially from the position set out in my provisional decision. But NatWest is only 
required to pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused  by the loan prompt it sent 
to Mr S.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct National  Westminster Bank Plc to:
1.Remove any record of Mr Ss top-up loan application from his credit record;  and 
2.Pay total compensation  of £150 to Mr S if it has not already done  so, for the 
inconvenience caused as a result  of the loan prompt it sent to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88830252APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr S complains that the reason National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) turned down his loan 
application was unfair. He also complains  that the bank wrongly addressed correspondence to both 
him and his wife.
background
Mr S received a notification from NatWest that he was likely to be approved for a top up to his existing  
personal loan. Mr S applied for the top up but wasnt successful. He says NatWest  told him the 
application failed because hed made it too soon after a previous  top up application. Mr S considered  
this was unfair and said hed only applied  because NatWest had invited him to.
Mr S had applied for the top up in his sole name. But NatWests rejection letter was addressed to both 
Mr S and his wife. Mr S said his wifes  discovery  of the loan application had caused considerable 
distress within  their relationship.
Our investigator didnt find that NatWest had done  anything wrong  in connection with its handling of 
the loan application.  She didnt consider there was any guarantee that Mr Ss application  would be 
accepted, and she was satisfied that it had been properly  assessed by the bank.
The investigator said that any data protection breach should be considered  by the Information 
Commissioners Office (which Mr S had already  contacted). But the investigator was satisfied there 
had been a confidentiality breach by NatWest, and said it should  pay £150 compensation.
Mr S didnt agree  with the investigators  conclusions.  He said she hadnt properly considered  the 
basis of his complaint. 
In addition, he didnt consider £150  properly reflected the considerable distress  NatWests 
confidentiality breach had caused.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr S accepts that there was no guarantee NatWest would accept  his top up loan application. But he 
considers it unfair that it was turned down  because he applied for it too soon after a previous top up 
application. He says he only made  the application because NatWest  invited him to do so.
I asked NatWest for a copy  of the invitation that was sent to Mr S, and Ive considered the information 
its given me. The wording  in its invitation said, amongst other things:
We could offer you a larger personal loan if you need  it. You currently have a personal loan balance  
of [£loan balance] and based on your recent account activity you are likely  to be approved for an 
additional loan of: Up to £XThe actual amount we can offer you will depend on the results of the 
credit check we do on the day you applyIf youhave had your loan unconditionally accepted you 
can have the money available  in your account the next working day 
The wording suggests  to me that the invitation was personal to Mr S, rather than a general mailshot.  I 
accept that the invitation  didnt include any guarantees, but I think it gave an overall  impression that 
an application was likely to be successful. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr S to apply  for 
the loan in response to NatWests invitation.
Ref: DRN88830253NatWest administers Mr Ss existing loan.  So it knows his repayment history,  and had details  of the 
previous top-up application.  As such, NatWest  must have known that if Mr S applied for an additional 
top-up following the prompt it sent,  the application  would  be declined  because it was made too soon 
after the previous application. NatWest has said that one of the reasons the application failed was 
because Mr S had applied for too many loans  in a short period of time. 
When I take account of everything Ive seen and been  told, I dont consider it was reasonable for 
NatWest to prompt Mr S to apply for the loan in the way that it did. So Mr S should  be put back into 
the position he wouldve been in if he hadnt  received the prompt.
In those circumstances I think its unlikely that Mr S wouldve applied  for any further borrowing.  So 
there wouldnt be any record of the application  on his credit  file. That means  NatWest should remove 
any record of the application  from Mr Ss credit file. I also consider it should pay £150 for the 
inconvenience caused  in connection with the loan prompt that it sent.  
I can appreciate  the upset caused  when  Mr Ss wife discovered the application that Mr S had wanted 
to keep confidential. So I can understand why he might  consider  £150 isnt enough  compensation.
But where  this type of mistake has been made our awards tend to be modest. So I think the amount 
recommended by the investigator is reasonable in the circumstances. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend to direct National Westminster  
Bank Plc to:
1.Remove any record of Mr Ss top-up  loan application from his credit record;  and 
2.Pay total compensation  of £300 to Mr S.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8883025