K822xcomplaint
Mr T has a credit  card account with TSB Bank Plc. The account originally provided  two 
separate cards.
Mr T is unhappy  with a number of issues he has had with his TSB credit card account. He 
says TSB blocked his account while he was abroad so he couldnt use either  of his cards, 
didnt send him account statements,  reduced  his credit limit and didnt give him sufficient  
notice it was going to stop providing one of his cards. Since the complaint  was brought to us 
hes also had problems  getting PIN reminders from TSB.
background 
In September  2018 Mr T was travelling  overseas.  He found that he could not use either of 
his credit cards. He called  TSB from overseas  to complain about this as he says he let TSB 
know before  travelling that hed be out of the country. TSB said that the cards, and account, 
had been blocked because the account was in arrears. It said it hadnt  had any payments 
towards the balance  since  May 2018. The block was put in place in August 2018 and TSB 
said the account couldnt be used  until a payment was made.  
Mr T made further  calls to TSB about this while abroad and after he returned home. He had 
issues answering security questions about his credit limit during these calls  as his credit 
limit was reduced on 20 September 2018 due to the arrears position.  As well as being  
unhappy that his account was blocked Mr T said he hadnt  received his monthly statements 
since he last made  a payment in May 2018,  so he hadnt  known  a payment was outstanding. 
He was also unhappy to learn that TSB was not going to continue providing one of his cards 
as it had ended its relationship with the supplier. This change took effect on 27 September  
2018. Mr T says he shouldve been  told about this sooner.
When these points were raised  with TSB it agreed to refund  the interest applied to Mr Ts 
account between  June and August 2018, covering the period Mr T said he hadnt received 
his statements for, totalling £53.45. And it also arranged to suppress  interest  for two months.  
It paid him £62 to cover  the call costs incurred calling from overseas. And it paid him £325 
for the inconvenience  hed experienced as it felt it couldve provided better customer  service  
in letting him know what was happening  with his account. TSB didnt issue  a formal  written 
response so Mr T asked our service to look into the complaint.
While we were  investigating the complaint, Mr T says he had again recently been unable to 
use his remaining card. He says that this was because TSB had blocked the card. TSB said 
the card was not blocked but the PIN had been  entered  incorrectly. Mr T requested  a PIN 
reminder from TSB. But it initially incorrectly sent him a reminder of the PIN for the card it 
had stopped providing. A PIN reminder for his active card was issued  several days  later.  
Mr T has confirmed this has now been  received. But he says TSB agreed to cover his call 
costs in respect of this, which  it hasnt done. He has indicated he wants  £150 for this.
An adjudicator at our service looked  into this complaint  for Mr T. He thought TSB hadnt 
acted unreasonably by blocking Mr Ts account or reducing the credit  limit, due to it being in 
arrears. He also found that, on balance, it appeared TSB had sent Mr T credit  card 
statements. In any event  though, he thought it was Mr Ts responsibility  to make payments to 
the account, as he knew  hed used  it for purchases, so wouldve known a payment  was 
required. He also didnt think TSB had done anything wrong in terms of ceasing to provide 
one of the cards on his account. So, he thought the offer made by TSB so far was fair. 
Ref: DRN86775412In terms of the PIN reminder  the adjudicator thought  there had been some shortcomings  and 
some of the delays couldve  been  avoided. He couldnt see that TSB had agreed to meet  call 
costs but felt it should make a payment in respect  of the further  inconvenience  caused. So 
he recommended  that it pay another £50. TSB accepted  the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr T rejected the adjudicators opinion. He said the additional £50 recommended is not fair 
and doesnt cover his call costs. He thinks  he should get £150. The adjudicator  asked Mr T if 
he had any evidence of his costs, such as a phone bill, but Mr T said he didnt. 
As Mr T didnt agree with our adjudicators findings the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
block on the account and missing statements
In terms of blocking Mr Ts account  due to non-payment, I dont think  TSB has made  an 
error. It has provided account statements that show the last payment made  to the account  
before it was blocked was in May 2018, but there  was significant spending since that time. 
The terms and conditions  Ive seen allow it to stop the use of the cards if the risk of the 
account being unpaid increases. And I think it as reasonable here for TSB to consider the 
missed payments as an increase in that risk.
Mr T has said he didnt  get statements so didnt know he needed to make repayments.  The 
copy statements that TSB have provided  appear to be addressed  correctly.  And I think  its 
likely they were sent, although I do acknowledge that something outside of TSBs control 
mayve resulted in them not being  received. I can see TSB also sent letters  saying the 
account was in arrears  which were  also addressed  correctly  although these mayve arrived  
while Mr T was overseas. But even if there had been issues with the statements, I think  Mr T 
should have been aware that he needed to make a payment to his account. He used the 
cards for purchases so wouldve known there  was an outstanding balance on the account.  
Given that and the fact that he was intending  to rely on his TSB cards  while  travelling  he 
indicated to TSB when  complaining these were  the only cards he took with him  I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for him to contact TSB to find out how much  he needed to pay 
when he didnt get the statements.
Mr T has said he called TSB before going  away to confirm his plans, so that the cards 
wouldnt be blocked. He said this was at the end of August  by which  time the account had 
already been frozen due to the arrears position.  And Mr T says TSB didnt tell him at that 
point that payments were overdue. I agree that, if Mr T did speak to TSB about his travel  
plans it wouldve been appropriate for it to explain the position  regarding the arrears. But 
TSB doesnt have any record  of receiving this call. And Mr T hasnt indicated  that he called 
separately about missing  statements or mentioned the missing  statements when discussing 
travel plans. So overall I dont think I can reasonably say that TSB is responsible for the 
inconvenience he encountered.
changes to the credit limit
Ref: DRN86775413Again in respect of the credit limit on Mr Ts account  being decreased,  I think TSB was 
entitled to do this due to the arrears position on the account. The terms and conditions Ive 
seen say that TSB can change the credit  limit because of a number of factors.  One of these 
is an increased risk to it if the cardholder hasnt met their obligations. And making the 
monthly repayment is one of the obligations of the agreement.  It looks like this happened  
while Mr T was out of the country, so he wouldnt  have received the letter informing him until 
he got back. And this mayve caused  the issues with answering  security questions that Mr T 
has mentioned. But I dont think that means  TSB was wrong to do what it did. 
withdrawal of one of the cards
Regarding the withdrawal  of one of Mr Ts cards, TSB has said that some customers  didnt  
receive the initial letter confirming this  and its possible Mr T was one of the people 
affected. But confirmation was sent out a week before the change took effect.  Mr T has said 
he shouldve  been given more notice of this change. And while I agree it wouldve been 
better if further notice  had been  given, I dont  think Mr T has lost out as a result of this. I say 
this because withdrawing the card was a legitimate decision TSB was entitled to make. And 
in any event, due to the arrears that had built up, his card was already suspended pending 
repayment. So I dont  see that any additional notice wouldve made a difference.
Taking all of the above into account, I agree with the adjudicator that the redress  TSB has 
already paid in respect of these issues  refunding  £53.45  in interest  and suspending  
interest for two months, paying £62 for overseas phone costs and £325 for inconvenience  
caused due to poor customer  service  is fair because I dont think it has done a great  deal 
wrong. So Im not recommending  that it do any more in respect of these issues.
recent account access and PIN reminders
Turning to the problems Mr T has had more recently of being unable  to use his remaining 
card, I think TSB has made a couple of errors. The information weve been provided shows  
that Mr T went  into branch  on 12 January 2019  and ordered a PIN reminder. When  TSB 
originally ordered  a PIN reminder it did so for the wrong card.  This resulted in a delay, with 
the correct PIN not being reordered until 24 January 2019. And it also looks  like, during the 
call Mr T had with TSB on 24 January 2019,  he mayve been given incomplete  information 
about why he was experiencing issues with account.  I think this delay  and the uncertainty 
created by the information Mr T was given was likely to have been upsetting. So I think itd 
be fair for TSB to recognise  this. 
Mr T has said that TSB agreed to cover his phone costs. Ive listened to recordings of some 
of the calls he had with TSB about  this, and reviewed  notes  of the other  calls where the 
recordings were not available. And based  on what Ive reviewed, I havent seen that TSB did 
agree to cover call costs.  But in any event, although  I can see Mr T called TSB a number of 
times about this issue, we havent been sent evidence of what his actual costs were. While I 
know Mr T feels strongly about this, in the circumstances I agree with our adjudicator  that it 
wouldnt be reasonable to recommend that TSB pay £150.  However,  its accepted that TSB 
issued a PIN for the wrong card which caused some delay,  so I think it would be reasonable 
for TSB to pay £50 to recognise  the trouble this caused Mr T.
Ref: DRN86775414my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partly uphold Mr Ts complaint to the extent  that 
TSB Bank Plc should pay him £50 in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8677541