K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Salary Finance Limited  ignored  his emails.
background
In June 2018 Mr M applied to Salary  Finance  for a loan. He then changed his mind  about the 
loan term and asked  for it to be varied,  but he was told that this was not possible. Instead he 
would have to withdraw from the loan agreement and apply for a new loan. He did this. Once 
he had repaid the original loan money,  with a small amount  of interest, he emailed Salary  
Finance to ask for confirmation  that he had paid the right amount. (Meanwhile he applied for 
a new loan with Salary Finance.)
Mr Ms complaint is that he had to wait too long for an answer  to his enquiry. He sent some  
more emails to chase Salary Finance for an answer, and he says these emails were ignored.  
He says he finally got his answer  after about  ten weeks. At that time, Salary Finance 
explained that it had failed  to send him an email  when  it was supposed to, on 10 July, and 
apologised. Being dissatisfied with Salary Finances apology, Mr M cancelled  his new loan 
application and brought this complaint to our Service. He also complained  that Salary  
Finance had failed  to log a complaint the first time he had complained. He asked for 
compensation.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said that Salary  Finances failure to send 
an email on 10 July was such a minor error  that it did not deserve any compensation. An 
apology was enough. Mr M had not incurred any financial loss. Salary Finance had logged 
his complaint at the right time, and had responded to the complaint within the eight weeks it 
was allowed under regulations.
Mr M did not accept that decision. In particular, he disputed the adjudicators opinion  as to 
which of his emails Salary  Finance should  have treated  as a complaint. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The loan agreement  was entered  into on 12 June 2018. The first loan repayment was due on 
25 July. But on 14 June,  Mr M asked  to change the term of the loan. Salary  Finance told him 
that he would have to withdraw from the first loan and apply for a new one. So on 23 June 
Mr M asked  to do that. Over the next few days,  the parties exchanged some  emails about 
this issue, and Mr M repaid the loan in full over the course of four payments (its not 
necessary for me to set out all of the dates of those events). One of Salary  Finances emails 
(dated 27 June) was sent to Mr Ms other  email  address, but this does not appear to have 
prevented him from making the repayments  (and another email was sent to him at his usual 
email address the next day).
The first important date is 8 July. On that day Mr M made the last repayment, and on the 
same day he sent Salary Finance an email in which he confirmed that he had repaid the loan 
in full. He asked Salary Finance to confirm that he had repaid  the correct  amount. The 
reason this is important  is because  Mr M says that Salary Finance should have treated this 
email as a complaint, and that it had eight weeks from that date in which to give him its final 
Ref: DRN82256062response. That deadline expired on 2 September,  but Salary Finance  sent him its final 
response on 6 September, four days late.
However, I do not agree with him. I have read all of the emails,  and his email of 8 July reads, 
in full, as follows:
Hello
Ive paid my loan off now can you please confirm I have paid the right amount
Thanks
Gary
There is nothing at all in that email which could in any way be construed as a complaint. To 
be clear,  a complaint  is defined in the rules  as an expression of dissatisfaction about a 
financial service which alleges that the complainant  has suffered (or may suffer) financial 
loss, material distress  or material inconvenience .
Mr M sent another email on 15 July, which simply said I still await  this can this please be 
sent??  Again, there  is nothing  in that email  which amounts to an expression of 
dissatisfaction. (I will come back to this email  later.)
In my view, the first email Mr M sent which meets (or even begins to meet)  the definition  of a 
complaint is his email  of 19 July. Salary Finance acknowledged that email the next day, and 
treated it as a complaint. It therefore had eight weeks  from 19 July to give Mr M its final 
response, and it met that deadline on 6 September, with a week  to spare.
I will come  back to Salary Finances email of 20 July later. For now, I will turn back to what 
happened on 9 July. On that date, the day after Mr Ms initial  email  asking to confirm he had 
paid the right amount, Salary Finance replied to him. It acknowledged his email and said it 
would calculate  the settlement figure and get back to him. Its clear  that Mr M must have 
received that email,  because he replied to it  the text of that email is included  within  his own 
email of 15 July.
Salary Finance was meant to send him its answer the next day, 10 July. It has admitted that 
its failure to do so was a mistake. It has apologised for that mistake,  and given feedback to 
its staff so that this error does not happen  again.
I think that error is mitigated by five things. Firstly, it was completely inadvertent. Secondly, 
Salary Finance had acknowledged Mr Ms email on the day after he sent it, so it had not 
ignored him. Thirdly, that email had not said when it would answer his question  that is, it 
hadnt promised  him an answer on 10 July and then failed to get in touch on that day. 
Rather, it had only said that We will calculate a settlement figure  for your account and be 
back in touch to confirm this with you.
Fourthly, Mr M was not prejudiced in his application  for a new loan in the meantime.  His 
application was agreed and he was given a new loan offer.  (He didnt  accept it in the end, 
but that was his choice, not the result of Salary Finance not sending him an email on 
10 July.)
Fifthly, Salary  Finance  answered Mr Ms question in its email  of 20 July (the email  in which it 
had acknowledged  his complaint). In that email, Salary Finance  said:
The payment we have  received from you has been treated as a withdrawal and 
your loan with Salary Finance has already  been closed.
Ref: DRN82256063In that same  email, Salary Finance also explained  the reason why its email of 27 June had 
been sent to his other email address. And as I have said already, it told him that it may take 
up to eight weeks for it to conclude its investigation.
Mr M received that email, because he replied to it to say I await the results of your 
investigation.
So for all of those  reasons, I agree  with our adjudicator that Salary Finances failure to 
answer Mr Ms question on 10 July was fairly resolved by its apology on 6 September.  I dont 
think any compensation is required.
I am reinforced in that decision by the fact that Mr M has sustained no financial loss. The 
loan had indeed  been closed and no payment became due on 25 July. But I also think that 
any inconvenience to Mr M was minimal, and not sufficiently serious  to merit compensation.
Mr M sent emails to Salary  Finance on 23 and 29 August, chasing it for a response to his 
complaint. That was his choice. Salary Finances response was not late, and it had told him 
that a response  might  take up to eight  weeks. As Ive said,  it answered him in time, within  
seven weeks. So it was not necessary for him to send those emails, and I do not regard 
them as being  inconvenience of Salary Finances making. Nor did Salary  Finance  ignore  
those emails. It replied to them on 31 August to remind him that it had closed his loan, and 
that his new loan application  had been  granted and was awaiting his signature. It also 
reminded him that it had eight weeks  to answer  his complaint. So I do not accept  that Salary  
Finance ignored  his emails.
Salary Finance gave its final response on 6 September, apologising for not answering  his 
original question on 10 July. That was a timely and sufficient answer to his complaint.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019. But if we dont hear from him, then we will presume 
that he does not accept  it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8225606