K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the performance  of his pension plan, following advice he received 
from Questa Financial Services  Ltd T/A Questa Chartered (Questa), to transfer his 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits  and invest into a portfolio with a provider using  
a discretionary managed service. 
background
Mr D met with Questa in July 2016 as he was due to retire from his role with a bank in 
September and wanted advice on his leaving  package and his OPS benefits. It was noted 
that the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV)  of the OPS  was around £644,874 and Mr D 
wanted to consider the possible benefit of transferring the CETV to a personal pension plan.  
In September  2016, Questa recommended that Mr D transferred his OPS  and personal 
pensions to a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). He was advised to withdraw  his tax 
free cash  and was then given subsequent  advice  to invest his remaining pension  funds into 
a Target Return  Investment Strategy  with a third party  provider who would then manage the 
funds on a discretionary management basis.  
On 21 November 2017, Questa met with Mr D to review his SIPP. It was noted that  after 
the payment of the tax free cash  the plan had made a loss of £4,871 for the year it had 
been invested. Questa recommended that Mr D should keep £400,000 invested in the 
Target Returns strategy,  with the remainder  around £240,000  being  phased into 
Questas core portfolio  over the following 4-5 months.
In August  2018  Questa wrote to Mr D outlining its concerns  at the performance  of the Target 
Return Strategy and recommended switching it to another Target Return  provider. But Mr D 
remained unhappy with the performance of his pension and in November  2018  he requested 
that it was transferred to another provider.
On 30 November 2018 Mr D complained  to Questa about what he said was the 
disappointing performance of his SIPP, particularly  at a time when he believed the markets 
had been positive. Questa didnt uphold  the complaint. It said it wasnt  to blame for the 
performance of Mr Ds pension. So, unhappy with this outcome Mr D brought  his complaint 
to us.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and didnt  think  it should be upheld. He 
explained that Questa had assessed  Mr Ds attitude  to investment risk as being medium  
and thought it had invested  his monies accordingly. When Mr Ds pension  was reviewed, it 
was agreed that some  of his money would be transferred to Questas Core Portfolio, which  
having considered the composition of that portfolio, the adjudicator  felt was also in line with 
Mr Ds attitude to investment risk.
The adjudicator also thought that Mr Ds complaint  was about the performance of his 
pension, which  on its own  wasnt generally  considered as a reason to uphold  a 
complaint. And he thought that as Mr D held his pension with Questa for less than two years  
that wasnt a sufficiently long period of time in which to make  a meaningful assessment on 
investment returns.  
Mr D didnt agree. He stated that his pension had not performed in line with the 4% return  
that had been targeted  and Questa had agreed to transfer some  of his funds again  after just 
nine months due to performance.  Mr D also questioned the content  of an email  which  he 
Ref: DRN84834532was sent regarding the asset classes he had invested in. He said the email  suggested  his 
complaint wouldnt  have happened  if hed been  advised to invest in traditional asset 
classes  and questioned why he was advised to do so.
But the adjudicator reiterated his view that, as a medium  risk investor, Mr D should accept 
that some  of his money would be invested in equities as well as other  asset classes such as 
cash, which are lower risk. He thought  that overall Questa had acted fairly. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said Questa hadnt  done a good job and its actions  in trying to 
correct his position, would suggest that to be the case. He thought  Questa should be 
accountable for its errors and at the very least should refund  its fees.  He asked for his 
complaint to be reconsidered so its been  passed  to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr D feels very strongly 
that the recommended investment strategy for his SIPP resulted in his portfolio losing value. 
And I have  some sympathy  for the position that Mr D finds himself in here. But I agree with 
the adjudicator  in as much as I dont  think Questa has done anything wrong. I know  thats an 
outcome that will disappoint  Mr D  so Ill explain why.   
Mr D says that for the first year it was invested,  his portfolio  which was put into a target  
return investment strategy, lost value. He thinks it performed poorly  against  other  similar risk 
rated funds  and doesnt understand  why Questa didnt initially  recommend more  traditional 
funds instead.  He thinks the investment strategy  should have produced  returns  closer to its 
target and says that Questas plan to gradually transfer some of the portfolio to another  one 
 and then to transfer the entire portfolio  to a different provider   demonstrates  that the 
original recommendation  wasnt  appropriate for him.  
Ill start by explaining  that this service doesnt usually consider investment performance 
alone to be a cause for complaint. Thats because the very nature of investing is intrinsic  to 
risk and its only possible to determine whether investments have been successful with the 
benefit of hindsight. It wouldnt be fair to apply that hindsight unless it was in relation to any 
specific guarantee the investment had promised or the suitability of the initial investment 
was in question. 
As to the former, I havent seen any evidence that Questa or indeed  the provider guaranteed  
Mr D a certain level of return.  It did work to a target return which  it tried to achieve, but I 
cant see that it made any guarantees. So I cant say the provider didnt try to do what it said 
it would  and I dont  think it would be fair to uphold a complaint against Questa purely about 
investment performance  on that basis. 
Questas suitability report set out the key advantages of recommending a target return  
strategy as being:
A broad level of diversification.
Takes advantage  of sophisticated investment techniques.
Aims to deliver specific target  returns.
Ref: DRN84834533Questa did recommend that Mr D should invest his SIPP within  the providers proposition,  
which did have a stated  target, but as there  was no suggestion of any guaranteed  returns  
then I cant say Questa promised Mr D something  that wasnt  achieved.
I also note that the investment proposal document Mr D completed at the time of the advice 
said the value of investments can go down as well as up and may be worth  less than you 
invested. The information contained within this document  does not represent an investment 
recommendation or advice. (the provider)  only provides discretionary management 
services.  So the provider  made no guarantees regarding investment returns either.
In terms of the suitability  of the investment strategy, Mr D doesnt think it was medium  risk, 
which is what his own risk profile  was agreed as being with Questa. In particular hes said 
that Questa admitted that traditional  funds would probably have performed better  over this 
period as the markets themselves were generally positive. So Ive considered  whether the 
original recommendation  of this portfolio  and the amount of Mr Ds money  that was 
invested into it  was suitable for his circumstances  and objectives at the time.  
I note Mr D first invested his pension into the investment in January 2017. The aim was to 
grow the portfolio, targeting  a return of 6 month  LIBOR + 3.5%,  annualised on a rolling 
3 year basis. This was described by the provider as its medium low risk proposition . But 
importantly the strategy  also aimed  to manage the expected volatility  at a time of an 
uncertain economic  climate.
Ive looked carefully  at the discussions and analysis that went into Questas recommendation 
and Im satisfied that Mr Ds attitude to risk was properly  taken into account. Following the 
completion of a risk profiling questionnaire it was established that Mr D was a moderate risk 
investor  determined as a rating  of 5 on a scale of 1 to 10. And Im satisfied that the 
subsequent investment was in line with the agreed attitude to risk.
So I dont  think Questa  has done  anything wrong  in terms of how it recommended  the 
investment of Mr Ds money and whether this was in line with his attitude to risk and capacity 
for loss.  I note Questa  made reference to Mr Ds previous investment experience, which 
included some investments, when  considering  his financial experience,  and particularly his 
tolerance to his portfolio values falling. It was stated that you are an experienced investor 
and understand  the direct  correlation between risk and return.  So I think  Mr D would have 
understood that the value  of his investment, whilst  trying to reduce volatility,  could  rise and 
fall. 
Ive gone on to look carefully  at the composition of Mr Ds portfolio when it set up in 
January 2017.  I note a proportion of the portfolio was invested into a strategic  investment 
allocation (SIA) fund which  on its own- could be considered slightly  higher risk. But looking 
at the portfolio as a whole, and the overall asset allocation, I can see that  outside  of the 
SIA  theres  a large proportion invested in bonds and absolute return  assets.  
The SIA is described  as not a standalone investment  and the fund is designed to generate 
an absolute return when  viewed with other  assets in the clients  portfolio. As a result, if other 
assets in the portfolio are performing well, this fund may not produce a positive return .  
So the SIA was used in conjunction with the rest of the assets within Mr Ds portfolio, to 
diversify the risk and act as a counter balance if other assets were performing well or poorly.  
This may well have been a different strategy than traditional funds used as part of the 
recommendation to take advantage of sophisticated investment techniques But that doesnt 
Ref: DRN84834534mean it was unsuitable  for Mr Ds risk profile as an overall moderate investor and I think that 
Questas recommendation was made  in line with his risk profile.
Of course there  would  also have  been other investments/assets/funds that may have been 
equally as suitable  for Mr Ds situation, and it follows that they may have provided different 
returns and growth. Indeed Mr D has pointed to a conversation he had with Questa when it 
accepted that if it had invested into traditional asset classes the situation  might  not have  
arisen. But that doesnt mean that it did anything wrong  or that its recommendation was 
unsuitable, simply that other investments  may have provided better  returns over that time. 
Ultimately, here Mr D is saying that the portfolio shouldnt  have  been  recommended to him 
and its poor performance  meant he didnt get anywhere near the targeted  return  before 
Questa decided to revise its advice. And I can understand why he would be disappointed  
with the returns  generated by the investment.  His funds may well have produced  better 
returns when compared to market performance  overall if Questa had recommended  he 
made different investment  decisions.
But its not for me to question these decisions unless Id been persuaded that the funds were  
unsuitable or that Mr D was exposed to a higher degree of investment risk than had been 
agreed. And whilst I know this conclusion will disappoint Mr D, my view is that the available  
evidence doesnt  support  either of those  positions.
Mr D has said that Questas decision to gradually move some  of his funds to one of its own 
portfolios and then to suggest transferring to a completely  new provider showed that the 
initial recommendation was unsuitable.  
Ive seen that when Mr Ds investment was set up the provider  explained that one of the 
advantages of discretionary fund management is that you dont have to worry about your 
investments on a day to day basis  and that your financial  adviser will be responsible for 
assessing the ongoing suitability of your investments  held by (the provider).
So the roles were clear. The provider was responsible for providing returns  and Questa   
having already  identified  that the proposition  was suitable  for Mr Ds risk profile, was 
responsible for ensuring the investment remained suitable. So I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Questa to monitor the portfolio  and to make  recommendations for an 
alternative based on its concerns. It was then for Mr D to decide  if he wanted  to take that 
advice  which ultimately he didnt  or to remain with the original portfolio. I dont think  
Questa acted unfairly by suggesting to Mr D that another transfer might be a better  
alternative. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Ref: DRN84834535Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8483453