K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) have  poorly handled a 
claim under his buildings  insurance policy. Mr T has been represented by a relative when 
bringing this complaint. To keep things  simple, Ill refer to them  collectively as Mr T.
background 
In May 2017  Mr T contacted RSA to let it know his neighbour had suffered a leak which  had 
caused water damage to his property. Mr T believed this would dry out initially, but in May 
2018 he contacted RSA again to make  a claim as the damage had worsened.
Mr T said he was told the works  would  take around eight weeks but it took much longer. He 
said RSA left him for several  months with broken walls, without flooring, a non-functioning  
downstairs bathroom,  and other  visible damage  in the house. He said this impacted his 
ability to heat the property, and that the experience  had affected him and his wife particularly 
as they are older  and both suffer from medical issues.
Mr T complained to RSA and it wrote to him in late October 2018 to apologise. It said its 
contractors had failed  to contact and update Mr T and it had promised call backs  that werent 
followed up. It also said Mr T had been  mistakenly offered £700 as a disturbance allowance 
payment which  it initially  retracted, then honoured as a gesture of goodwill. RSA said overall 
it had made  mistakes and caused delays, so it offered  Mr T £200 in compensation. Then in 
January 2019  it offered an additional  £75.
Mr T didnt  think  this was fair and brought his complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. She said RSAs  
communication across  the claim was poor, and that the works had taken around eight 
months longer  than they should  have. 
The investigator also said RSAs own engineer  had agreed that works werent completed to 
an appropriate standard, but that it had cash settled to the value  Mr T had quoted  them for. 
She said this was reasonable but would expect RSA to reconsider if Mr T could evidence 
any further costs in carrying this out. The investigator went on to say she felt disturbance 
allowance shouldve been  paid in the circumstances.
Overall the investigator  said given  RSAs poor handling of the claim and the impact  of this on 
Mr T and his wifes  health, it should  pay them £750  in total for compensation, separate to the 
disturbance allowance it had already offered. 
RSA accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr T disagreed.  So the complaint has 
been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding  this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN80151972handling of claim
ICOBS 8.1. requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly and to provide appropriate 
information on a claims progress.
In this case RSA has agreed  it has made mistakes during the life of this claim. And our 
investigator has outlined  these previously in her view so I will not go over the detail of them 
again. But put simply, Im satisfied RSA failed  to keep Mr T updated as it shouldve. 
In addition to this, due to works not being completed to an acceptable standard, Mr Ts 
property was left in a damaged state  for at least  eight  months  longer than it shouldve.  Which 
has led RSA to now cash settle the claim.
Taking into account the circumstances Mr T has described, I agree RSA hasnt met its 
obligations under  the policy or handled the claim promptly.  And these ongoing delays in turn 
have prevented Mr T and his wife from seeing their family within their home as they wouldve 
liked, which I think would be very disappointing  for them.
Taking everything into account  Im satisfied a compensatory payment of £750 to put things 
right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
scope of claim
In this case RSA offered  a cash settlement  which it is able to do under the terms of the 
policy. But Mr T has said RSA hasnt provided a fair settlement for his claim, and that hes 
had to pay additional costs himself. 
RSAs files show it cash settled the claim to the value Mr T had quoted  the works would cost. 
Our investigator invited  Mr T to provide any evidence to show the settlement wasnt accurate 
and he hasnt. So Im satisfied RSA has settled the claim fairly and in line with the policy. 
RSA has agreed to pay £700 for disturbance allowance  as a gesture of goodwill. As theres 
no longer a dispute on this subject, I dont need to make any further findings on it.
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must pay Mr T £750 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset  it has caused.  It can deduct up to £275 from this 
sum, if this has already  been paid to Mr T as compensation.
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr T accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8015197