K822xcomplaint
H, a limited company,  has complained about the amount Aviva Insurance  Limited  refunded 
in premiums for its group private  medical  insurance  policy by after Aviva had recovered  the 
cost of a claim. H is represented by its director, Mr A.
background 
The policy,  which  renewed on 1 January  each  year, provided cover  for Mr A and two other 
members. In 2014, Mr A had an accident  in which he suffered an injury.  He needed 
treatment, for which Aviva  provided cover through the policy.  
Mr A took legal action  against a third party who had caused  his accident. Aviva made a 
subrogated claim for the recovery  of its treatment costs. The claim was settled in 2017 with 
Aviva making a full recovery  of its costs.
Mr A asked Aviva to recalculate  Hs premiums since the time of the accident,  taking into 
account that it had now recovered  its costs, and to refund H an appropriate amount. Aviva 
did this and paid H £298.
Mr A thought  the amount  was too little considering  the extent to which Hs premiums had 
increased over this period. He understood these  increases had been due to the claim.  He 
challenged Aviva over its calculations.
Aviva maintained it had calculated the refund correctly and that this was based on what  Hs 
premiums would have  been if the claim hadnt  been  made. It said it couldnt provide full 
details of its calculations  because the information was commercially  sensitive.
Mr A was unhappy at Avivas response and, on behalf of H, referred the complaint to us.
While the complaint was under investigation, Aviva reviewed the matter.  It said it had made 
a mistake in the calculation of the refund and that H was entitled  to a further £357.07.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint was upheld  but was satisfied that the 
additional refund  proposed by Aviva  was fair.
Mr A didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He said that when he had queried increases in 
the premium since the time of the accident, he had been assured by Aviva that the premium 
would fall once  the legal  action had been settled.  He said that while he recognised there 
were other factors which could push up costs, H had paid over £3,000 more  in additional 
premiums since  the time of the accident yet was being offered a total refund of just £655 
which he thought  was too low. He considered that Avivas claims of commercial 
confidentiality were  being used as a smokescreen  and meant that he had no way of 
establishing that it was treating H fairly.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
but consider that Avivas proposal of an additional refund is fair. I shall explain why.
Ref: DRN80748842The policy document explains that if a member needs treatment because  someone else was 
at fault, and the member makes a claim against that person, Aviva may require the member 
to recover on its behalf any costs it has paid for the members treatment. Aviva therefore  
required Mr A to recover its treatment costs as part of his legal action  against  the third party  
which caused his accident. I consider this was fair.
Having recovered  its costs, Aviva sought to recalculate Hs premiums for the years 2015,  
2016 and 2017. It has explained  that there is no automated process to do this. A member  of 
its pricing and underwriting team therefore initially made a commercial  decision simply to 
refund 10% of the premium, which led to the refund of £298.
However, on reviewing this after the complaint  had been referred to us, Aviva  noted that the 
percentage refund had been wrongly calculated and should actually have been  £573. Aviva 
furthermore decided to take the opportunity to estimate the refund in a more  thorough  way, 
though this necessarily  involved a complex manual operation. Im satisfied that Aviva made 
a mistake in its initial calculation of the percentage refund. I furthermore consider it should 
have based its refund on a more robust estimate of what H would have paid than simply an 
educated guess  at an appropriate  percentage.
Aviva has provided details of its more  detailed calculation.  I cant share this with H because  
it contains commercially sensitive information. I appreciate  that Mr A is frustrated by this, and 
understand his concern about  having to take things on trust.  Nonetheless,  I have checked  
the calculation  and, while it involves some subjective assumptions on the part of Aviva  about 
what it would  have  done, I am satisfied the additional sum to be refunded has been  
calculated fairly.
Mr A is disappointed that the proposed refund  is far less than the additional amount H paid in 
increased premiums following the accident.  However, there were other factors which  would 
have caused the premiums  to increase regardless of his particular claim.  While Mr A says 
Aviva promised that H would be due a refund in the event of his legal action being  settled, I 
havent seen any evidence that it made a promise as to the level of that refund.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay H an additional  £357.07.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A on behalf  of 
H to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2019
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8074884