K821x#15complaint
Ms M has a mortgage with HSBC UK Bank  Plc and shes unhappy that she was incorrectly 
told she wouldnt have to pay a booking fee to move to a new fixed rate product.
background and findings
I issued my provisional decision in October 2019.  The contents of my provisional decision 
are attached to this final decision  and form part of it. In my provisional decision I explained 
why I was minded  to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I invited both parties  to let me have any 
further submissions before I reached a final decision.
Both sides accepted  my provisional decision, albeit HSBC asked me to add an explanation 
that new offer documents will be required before it can place Ms M onto the new rate and 
that takes time. I agree,  but I will add that HSBC  must refund each overpayment  made  plus 
interest as Ive explained below so Ms M isnt financially disadvantaged  by any delay.
HSBC should  start the process  of producing the paperwork upon receipt of this final decision 
- rather  than wait until Ms M formally  accepts my decision  - so the impact of any delay is 
reduced. And Ms M should be aware  that she cant be moved  onto the 1.39% fixed rate 
unless she accepts my decision and until the transfer process has been  fully completed.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  HSBC  UK Bank Plc to:
Pay the £250 compensation its offered to Ms M (if it hasnt already done so).
Transfer  Ms Ms mortgage account onto the 1.39% fixed rate she wanted,  and backdate  
that transfer to 10 September  2018.  
Calculate  - and pay to Ms M - how much extra shes paid since  the date that change  
should have taken effect, against  how much she would  have paid if shed switched to 
the 1.39% at that time as she intended. Interest should be added  onto that sum at the 
rate of 8% simple a year from the date each extra payment  was made  until the date of 
settlement. 
If HSBC considers it should  deduct basic rate tax from the interest element of the award, it 
can do so, provided it supplies Ms M with the relevant  tax certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88725722COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms M has a mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc and shes unhappy that she was incorrectly told she 
wouldnt have to pay a booking fee to move  to a new fixed rate product.
background
Ms Ms previous preferential rate product came  to an end on 31 August 2018. Shed selected a new 
product she wanted to apply for and on 10 September her premier service  manager  (PSM) told her 
the £1,499 booking fee would be waived.
Unfortunately when the PSM transferred the call to the mortgage  team  he didnt tell them  that hed 
agreed to waive the fee. Ms M was told she would need to pay the booking  fee and so she raised  a 
complaint.
There were  internal delays in dealing with the complaint, and the area PSM eventually spoke to Ms M 
on 22 October. He acknowledged that Ms M had been given incorrect information and offered  her 
£250 compensation. Ms M verbally rejected his offer,  and the complaint response was followed up in 
writing by HSBC on 24 October.
Ms M chased  up the formal response to her complaint on 28 October  as shed  not received that letter. 
On 1 November Ms M received the letter  and she applied  online for a new rate. Unfortunately by then 
the rate she wanted to apply for had with withdrawn, and had been replaced with a higher rate (with  
the same £1,499 booking fee).
Our adjudicator said HSBC  should backdate the new interest rate to 10 September as well as pay the 
£250 compensation already  offered. HSBC  agreed  to that but Ms M didnt, and so the complaints 
been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities; in other words, 
what I consider  is most  likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider 
circumstances.
Theres no doubt Ms M was given incorrect information by her PSM on 10 September, and everything 
that happened after that was due to that incorrect information.
It is clear Ms M wanted the new fixed rate product; the only thing that was under discussion is 
whether or not she had to pay a booking  fee. Her PSM told her she didnt need to pay the fee so I can 
understand why she raised a complaint when the mortgage team told her the fee was due. 
Ive listened to the calls and whilst I agree Ms M wasnt told the lower rate would be held for her, she 
also wasnt told it wouldnt be. Nor was she told the risk of not proceeding with the rate at that time;  that 
is, that the rate could be withdrawn. HSBC  was the expert here and I would have expected it to give all 
the information to Ms M so she could make  an informed  decision about what to do. The call handler said 
they would leave things  the way they were until the complaint is resolved without warning Ms M she 
might then lose the rate she wanted.
All that said, the outcome  of this complaint can be looked at even  more simply.
When were  looking at complaints  about misrepresentations we consider the appropriate  remedy is to 
place the consumer in the position they would  be in if the incorrect  information hadnt been given. We 
dont put them in the position  they would be in if it had been correct.
Ref: DRN88725723Ms M was told by her PSM that she could have the 1.39% fixed rate product without paying a booking 
fee; that was the misrepresentation.  Had that not happened she would have been given  the correct 
information in that call; that is that shed  have to pay the £1,499 booking  fee to get the product. If 
shed been told that by her PSM I see no reason to believe she wouldnt have applied for the product 
when her call was transferred to the mortgage team. 
So the appropriate remedy is to put Ms M in that position,  and the way to do it is to reconfigure her 
mortgage account onto the 1.39% fixed rate (not the higher 1.54% fixed  rate that she applied for on 
1 November) and backdate that change  to 10 September 2018. Ms M shouldnt be left financially 
worse off (by being on a higher rate) due to incorrect information being given  to her by her PSM
Ms M thinks  the HSBC  complaint handler  was rude in saying she wouldnt reply  to any further emails.  
I understand Ms Ms point  and I think it would have been helpful for the complaint handler to have 
expanded on that, explaining  why it was the case. But the overall sentiment behind it was correct, as 
once a business  issues  a final response on a complaint  its not normally to either  sides benefit to 
continue correspondence,  and instead matters should be referred to us. 
It also would have  been  helpful for the complaint handler to have dealt with Ms Ms request for the call 
transcript, rather than telling Ms M thats something shed have  to discuss with the area PSM  herself.
But having considered everything, Im satisfied the existing offer of £250 is sufficient to cover the 
service failings of HSBC  and so I make no further  order or award there. 
my provisional  decision
For all of the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties  by the 
due date, my provisional  decision is I uphold  this complaint and order HSBC  UK Bank Plc to:
Pay the £250 compensation its offered to Ms M (if it hasnt already  done so).
Transfer Ms Ms mortgage account onto the 1.39%  fixed  rate she wanted, and backdate that 
transfer to 10 September  2018. 
Calculate - and pay to Ms M - how much extra shes paid since the date that change should have 
taken effect, against  how much she would have paid if shed switched  to the 1.39% at that time 
as she intended. Interest should be added onto that sum at the rate of 8% simple a year from the 
date each extra  payment was made until the date of settlement. 
If HSBC considers it should deduct basic rate tax from the interest element  of the award, it can do so, 
provided it supplies  Ms M with the relevant tax certificate.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8872572