K821x#15complaint
Miss Z has complained that the quote  she received from Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) for her motor policy  was higher that what she originally  obtained online a couple of 
weeks previously. Shes also complained that it charged her an additional premium when its 
checks showed the length of time she had held her driving licences was shorter  than she 
declared.
background
Miss Z said she obtained a quote online for £2,121.00.  When she rang RSA a couple of 
weeks later on 13 January, it said it couldnt  find her quote, so it advised her to do a new 
quote on a comparison  website and follow the instructions to come back to RSA with it. She 
did this and the policy was set up with a premium of £2,194.99 instead. 
RSA asked her to send  in her driving  licence  and then it discovered she hadnt held for two 
full years as she said in the application form, but had only held it for one full year. This meant 
its original quote  for her policy was under-rated and she needed  to pay a further  £337.83.
Miss Z then complained as her premium  payments had now become unaffordable and that 
RSA should have set up her policy  on its original  quote. RSA didnt think it had done 
anything wrong, so Miss Z brought her complaint to us.
The adjudicator thought  RSA hadnt  done  anything wrong as regards the higher quote Miss 
Z obtained  on 13 January  as RSA wouldnt have been bound by its previous quote  as it had 
detailed its quotes  has a zero validity period. But she didnt  think it was right RSA had 
increased her premium due to the incorrect length  of time Miss Z said she had had her 
driving licence  for as this was contrary to the provisions of the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA). She thought  consequently, RSA 
should provide  Miss Z with her policy without the added premium  for the driving licence 
issue.  
RSA didnt agree so Miss Zs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding it in part 
and Ill now explain why.
There are two issues here, and Ill discuss each  in turn.
The first quote issue
I dont think RSA did anything wrong  with its second quote to Miss Z as it clearly explains its 
quotes change  all the time as the adjudicator explained in her view. And each of its quotes  
has a zero validity period, which its advisers clearly explained to Miss Z on the phone. This 
means if you want the quote  detailed, you must  decide then to buy the policy  at that time.
Ref: DRN80637142Therefore the quote Miss Z said she originally got on the comparison website wouldnt have  
still available to her or been the same  quote she was given when she reapplied a couple of 
weeks later.  And as RSA clearly explained  this to Miss Z, I dont consider theres anything 
wrong with that, as RSA is entitled to charge  what  it feels is right at any given time.  Its also 
clear this applied  to any applicant of RSA and that Miss Z wasnt treated any differently  than 
any other person  applying  for a quote.
The increase  due to the number of years  Miss Z had her driving licence.
RSA agrees the question on the comparison website about how many years the applicant 
has held a licence  for is a little unclear. However,  when you get to each question on the 
website, the explanation of what that means is then shown in a panel. It says its asking for 
the number of whole years the licence  is held. Miss Z said she had held her licence for two 
years, whereas  in fact she only had it for around  18 months. Therefore from this questions  
point of view she had only held her licence for one whole year and not two whole years.  
Obviously, it might be better if the question simply asked the date one got their licence so 
that the insurer could then makes  its own calculations as to how many  whole  years  a 
licence had been held for. But nevertheless,  the explanation panel is clear  enough in my 
view and on that basis, Miss Z answered  the question incorrectly.  And I satisfied that had 
RSA known it would have charged  her a higher premium from the start.
So I consider thats a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. The adjudicator was 
correct in detailing  the remedies for this misrepresentation  that are available  to RSA in her 
view. CIDRA says that insurers may:
cancel the policy, or 
tell the consumer that they will settle any future premiums  on a proportionate  basis.  
But if the consumer  isnt happy with that approach,  the consumer can cancel the 
policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium as RSA did here 
with Miss Z. We think its reasonable for an insurer to tell the consumer theres a problem, as 
in here Miss Zs policy was going to cost a further  £337.83 and then give her the option of 
paying the additional premium in order to keep her policy going or that she could have 
cancelled the policy herself and gone  elsewhere. RSA merely just charged Miss Z the extra 
premium without giving her any such other option.
Miss Z policy  expired  on 12 January 2019.  So obviously RSA cant now give Miss Z the 
option of cancelling it and obviously too, Miss Z continued with the policy to the end of the 
policy year.  Therefore, I think  RSA needs  to refund Miss Z the additional premium it asked to 
pay of £337.83  with interest  of 8% simple per year. It asked Miss Z to pay this over her 
monthly payment  so the interest  will need  to be calculated from each month Miss Z paid the 
additional premium.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to do the following:
Refund Miss Z £337.83.
Ref: DRN80637143Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date of each instalment she paid part of 
this this additional premium to the date it refunds her.*
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss Z how much its taken 
off. It should  also give her a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8063714