K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about an issue with a car that she bought partly using credit provided by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard. Her complaint is made  against  Barclaycard 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background 
Miss M bought a used car for £6,791 from a dealer in May 2017. She paid a deposit of £813,  
£1,673 using a debit  card and £1,000 using her Barclaycard - with the balance provided  by a 
loan from a third party.  The car was three  years old and had been driven for 16,014  miles.  
She says that in December 2017  she noticed a loud noise coming from the car when it goes 
over speed  bumps.  She asked a garage  to look at that issue  when the car was having an 
MOT test in February 2018  and was told that the noise was coming from the wheel manifold 
and was caused by the bushes. She complained to Barclaycard under section 75. It paid her 
£25 compensation  because  of its delay in dealing with her complaint  and arranged  for the 
car to be inspected by an independent expert.  Miss M wasnt  satisfied with Barclaycards 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that the car 
wasnt as durable  as it shouldve been. So he recommended that Barclaycard should 
arrange with Miss M for the car to be inspected by a relevant  garage  or dealership  and that it 
should cover  the cost of the repairs suggested.
Barclaycard has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that:
the issue with the car cant be fully diagnosed until a complete review of the car is 
done;
the independent expert says that the condition wouldnt have been  developing at 
finance inception;
the issue with the car wasnt noticed  until more  than six months after the car was 
purchased and if the fault was existing  at the point of sale it would expect Miss M to 
have noticed it prior to December  2017;
its unable to agree that the dealer has breached its contract  or misrepresented the 
car; and
it would  need  definitive evidence from a professional that the fault was inherent  when 
Miss M bought the car  but the independent  expert says that its an undiagnosed 
issue and that he would be unable to confirm  any possible causes.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss M 
and to Barclaycard  on 4 April 2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
In certain  circumstances,  section  75 gives a consumer an equal  right to claim 
against the supplier  of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  To be able to uphold  
Miss Ms complaint about Barclaycard, I must be satisfied  that theres been a breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by the dealer and that Barclaycards response to her 
claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of 
Miss Ms claim under  section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
Ref: DRN85258232Miss M bought a used car in May 2017.  About seven months later she says that she 
noticed a loud noise coming from the car when it goes over speed bumps. But theres  
no evidence to show that she did anything about that until February 2018 when she 
took the car for an MOT test and asked the garage to look at the issue. That was 
about ten months after shed bought  the car. The garage said that the noise was 
coming from the wheel  manifold and was caused by the bushes. Miss M complained 
to Barclaycard under section 75 and it arranged  for the car to be inspected  by an 
independent expert  in March 2018.  The cars mileage at that time was recorded as 
being 23,995 miles  so Miss M had used the car to drive about 8,000 miles.
The inspection report says:
We drove the vehicle  for approximately 3 miles where we noted when 
travelling over speed bumps there  is a metallic rattle and a creaking noise 
from the front of the vehicle  which appeared to be emanating from the offside 
of the vehicle;  and:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we can conclude  the vehicle 
displayed a creaking and rattling type noise from the offside front.  We would 
consider that based on the mileage  covered  and length of time since finance  
inception and also on the balance of probability, this condition would not have  
been developing at finance inception.  Further  investigation is required to fully 
confirm the exact  cause  and parts required.
So the independent expert concluded  that it was more likely than not that the issue 
wouldnt have been present when  the car was bought by Miss M. But the expert 
didnt conclude what was causing the issue or say what would be required to remedy 
the issue.
Barclaycard would only be liable to Miss M under section 75 if thered been  a breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by the dealer. The issue with the car couldve been 
caused by a number of factors. Shed been able to use the car without the issue  
occurring for seven months.  And in the absence of clear  evidence to show that there  
was an issue with the car when it was supplied to Miss M, Im not persuaded that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the dealer in these 
circumstances. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Barclaycard to pay for 
the car to be repaired  or to take any other action in response to Miss Ms complaint. 
Barclaycard has paid £25 compensation to Miss M for its delay  in dealing with her 
complaint  I consider that to be fair and reasonable compensation for its delay.
So, subject to any further representations by Miss M or Barclaycard, my provisional  decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint.
Miss M has responded to my provisional  decision and says,  in summary, that:
she only noticed the fault in December because the noise only happens  when it turns 
cold and can only be heard in the cold months;
if shed heard the noise before then she wouldve immediately taken the car back to 
the dealer as she was only given a three month  warranty;
shes not received  the £25 compensation from Barclaycard;
Ref: DRN85258233shes driven 8,000 miles in the car because  she bought it to get to work - which  is a 
round trip of 30 miles  six days a week; and
she wants the car to be fixed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
Miss M says that she didnt become aware of the noise issue  until December 2017  about  
seven months after she bought the car. And she didnt do anything about it until February 
2018. The car was inspected  by an independent  expert in March  2018 who concluded  that, 
on the balance  of probability,  the issue wouldnt have been  developing when Miss M bought 
the car. And Miss M had been  able to use the car to drive about 8,000 miles.
For those reasons, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that there  was 
an issue with the car when it was bought by Miss M  or that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at that time. So Im not persuaded  that theres enough  evidence  to show  that theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the dealer. And I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require Barclaycard to pay for the car to 
be repaired   or to take any other  action in response to Miss Ms complaint.
Barclaycard has provided evidence  to show that it credited £25 compensation to Miss Ms 
account in March 2018 because of its delay in dealing with her compliant.  I consider  that to 
be fair and reasonable compensation for the delay. And Im satisfied that its provided  
enough evidence  to show that the payment has been made to Miss M.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8525823