K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mrs C took out the 
store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  the complaint. Mrs C 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs C says she was led to believe she had to take the PPI in order  to get the store card and 
that she wasnt aware the PPI didnt have to be added  at the point she took out the card. But 
FICL has provided evidence of its internal  records to show  the PPI was taken out over the 
phone in 2001  more  than six months  after the store card account had been set up. But 
unfortunately due to the length of time thats  passed there  is no call recording for me to listen  
to  so I cant say what exactly was discussed  at the time. But as Mrs C already  had the 
credit in place I think she wouldve known the PPI was an optional extra and not a condition  
of having the store  card.
FICL has also provided call scripts  which it says wouldve been used for these types of sales 
around that time  and Ive seen  no reason to doubt this. These show  that the sales  person  
wouldve been instructed to present the PPI as optional to Mrs C. And without any evidence 
to persuade me otherwise,  I think its unlikely FICL  wouldve added the PPI to her account 
without her permission.
So based  on all the evidence Ive seen and without  any stronger evidence to the contrary,  I 
think FICL made it clear  that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN85566812Mrs C says she didnt need  the PPI because  she had six months  full, followed by six months 
half sick pay from her employer. Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve  paid 15% of 
Mrs Cs outstanding monthly balance until the policy ended,  Mrs C stopped being 
unemployed or disabled, or the outstanding balance had been cleared. This is in addition to 
her sick pay benefits, so these funds  couldve  been  used for other  expenses. And I think  the 
PPI wouldve  been especially  useful for her when her sick reduced  to half. So I still think the 
policy wouldve been useful for her and I dont think better information wouldve  put her off 
taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8556681