K821x#15Complaint
Mr R complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.  He wants to reject the vehicle.
Background
Mr R entered into a finance agreement with Blue Motor Finance to acquire a used vehicle in 
March 2019. On 1 April he had diagnostics run on the vehicle because he thought  it was 
loosing power. He says that the diagnostics returned  multiple  fault codes. Mr R contacted  
Blue Motor  Finance to raise concerns about the vehicle not being of satisfactory quality.
On 4 April, Mr R says he called Blue Motor Finance to say the vehicle had been serviced but 
it was still going  into limp mode. He asked to reject the vehicle  but says he was told he 
needed to give Blue Motor Finance  a first right to repair.
On 5 April, an independent  inspection  of the vehicle  was carried  out which identified faults 
and recommended further specialist investigation. Further diagnostics  took place which  
confirmed faults  with the vehicle. Mr R paid a lump sum of £10,000 towards the agreement 
on 26 April 2019 as he wanted to reduce the payments and had initially wanted to own the 
vehicle. However he says that given the issues he has lost confidence in the vehicle and 
doesnt want it repaired but instead wants to reject it under the short  term right to reject 
section of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015).
Blue Motor  Finance says that Mr R contacted it in April to say there  were  faults with his 
vehicle and that he wanted  to reject it. It says it requested evidence in order  to establish 
whether it was liable.  It says reports were provided showing fault codes  relating  to fuel 
issues and that the injectors had failed with three  requiring replacement.  It says it explained 
to Mr R that in order for rejection to be agreed it would need to be shown that the faults were 
present at the point of supply. It noted  that Mr R had driven  the vehicle 2,000 miles which 
suggested the faults had developed since acquisition. Given this it said it should have the 
opportunity to carry out a repair.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that Mr R had made it clear that he wanted to 
reject the vehicle within the first 30 days.  He said that a fault was present and so Mr R had 
the right to reject under the CRA  2015 and didnt have to give Blue Motor  Finance the 
opportunity to carry out a repair.
Blue Motor  Finance didnt accept our investigators  view. It said that the CRA 2015 required 
the customer to show  the fault was present at the point of supply. It reiterated  that Mr R had 
been able to drive  2,000 miles and said, on balance, this wouldnt have been possible had 
the fault been present  at the point of supply. Given this it didnt think  there were sufficient 
grounds for rejection and said it should have a chance to carry out a repair.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire  a used vehicle. Under  the 
regulations, Blue Motor  Finance can be held liable if the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply.  Satisfactory quality takes  into account  factors  such as the age and 
Ref: DRN80675162mileage of the vehicle.  In this case the vehicle  was almost two years old and had been  
driven around 40,000 miles at acquisition.
Shortly after acquisition Mr R noticed  the vehicle was loosing power. Blue Motor Finances 
notes show that Mr R raised a complaint about this and about  the engine  control unit being 
wiped. In the notes it says that Mr R had had a service done but the vehicle was still going 
into limp mode and that he wanted  to reject the vehicle.
Mr R sent a letter to Blue Motor Finance  dated 7 April, in which he set out the issues he was 
experiencing with the vehicle and again made  it clear he wish to reject  it.
Under the CRA 2015, Mr R has a short term right to reject the vehicle if faults  are identified 
within the first 30 days. In this case diagnostics and investigation have taken  place and faults 
have been identified. As these were identified within the first 30 days and Mr R made his 
request to reject the vehicle clear.  I find it reasonable that this takes place.
Blue Motor  Finance has said that Mr R was able to drive  2,000 miles in the vehicle and so, 
on balance, the faults werent present at the point  of supply. However, given how soon  after 
acquisition the issues arose and also given  that more than one issue  was identified,  I find it 
reasonable to accept  that the vehicle wasnt sufficiently durable and, it is more likely  than not 
that faults were  present or developing at the point of supply. I note the mileage covered but I 
do not find that this is sufficient to say that the car was of satisfactory quality  at acquisition. 
Given the issues that were identified,  and when these issues arose I find, on balance,  that 
the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and I can understand why 
Mr R wishes to reject it. In this case I find the fair resolution is for Mr R to be allowed to reject 
the vehicle.
Mr R was able to use the vehicle for a period of time before deciding to hire an alternative  
vehicle. I find it reasonable that Mr R should pay for the use he made and I agree with our 
investigators recommendation that a months payment for each 1,000 miles driven is 
retained by Blue Motor  Finance.  All other payments should be refunded. Because the 
remaining payments  are being  refunded,  I do not find that Blue Motor  Finance is responsible 
for any hire costs Mr R incurred.  
Mr R didnt pay a deposit upfront  but did make a £10,000 lump  sum payment on 26 April 
2019. As the vehicle is being  rejected I find that this payment should be refunded  along  with 
interest. Mr R should also be refunded the costs he incurred paying for investigations and 
diagnostics for the vehicle.
Mr R has been caused inconvenience by being  supplied with a vehicle hat wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. He has also been  caused  inconvenience by Blue Motor Finance not 
accepting his request  for rejection. Because of this I agree  with our investigators 
recommendation that he be paid £200 compensation. 
Ref: DRN80675163My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd should:
1.cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further for Mr R to pay;
2.collect the vehicle  at no cost to Mr R;
3.refund  all monthly payments made by Mr R aside  from one payment  for every 1,000 
miles covered, 
4.refund  the costs  Mr R paid for the independent  report (£280) and any other 
inspections (subject to invoices);
5.refund  the £10,000 lump sum payment Mr R paid towards  the agreement  on 26 April 
2019. I understand no deposit payment was mad upfront;
6.pay £200 compensation to Mr R for the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
The costs  for the rental vehicle that Mr R hired  does not need to be refunded as Mr Rs 
payments under the agreement are being refunded and it was Mr Rs choice to hire the 
alternative vehicle.
Items 3, 4, 5 and 6 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  until the date 
of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8067516