K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) failed  to fix a leak in his home 
before he went on holiday, and that caused significant damage while he was away.  
background 
Mr T has a home emergency  policy with BGI that covers drains and plumbing. He said he 
contacted BGI when  he noticed a persistent drip from his kitchen  ceiling. 
BGI sent an engineer. Mr T said he identified that the leak was to do with the bathroom sink, 
either on the waste, or from behind the tiles. But Mr T told us the engineer wouldnt do the 
work straight  away, as he said it was a two man job. No one could come out again before 
the family  was due to go on holiday, three days later. A visit was booked  for their return. Mr 
T said he wasnt  advised  to turn the water  off before they left, but he did so as a precaution. 
On Mr Ts return, he found  a flood in his kitchen,  which he told us caused a significant 
amount of damage. He called BGI, and an engineer  attended and fixed the leak. Mr T said it 
was not, in fact, a two man job. He also said this engineer caused unnecessary damage to 
his kitchen ceiling and to tiles in the bathroom, while trying to find the source  of the leak.  
Mr T said he had to pay an excess on his home  insurance. Hed lost about £200 worth  of 
food, because the electricity had tripped  off. And hed been  left with a huge repair  bill, which  
his insurance was only partly meeting. He wanted  BGI to pay for all this.
BGI said that its engineer had gone out to Mr Ts home on 4 August. The engineer  then was 
unable to find the source of the leak, due to concealed waste  and pipe work. BGI said its 
engineer had advised Mr T to isolate the water supply whilst  he was out of the country. 
BGI said the damage  to Mr Ts home was a consequence of the leak,  not of anything it had 
done. And it said hed signed a waiver for the damage  done  on the second visit, as part of 
tracing the leak. BGI offered Mr T £50 for inconvenience, but it wouldnt pay any more.
Our investigator asked  BGI a number  of further questions about what  had been done on the 
first visit, and advice that couldve  been  given to Mr T. Our investigator  then upheld this 
complaint. She said that the purpose of home emergency cover  is to alleviate the immediate 
issue and prevent further damage.  She wasnt convinced BGI had done  that in this case. 
Our investigator said BGI should  cover  Mr Ts excess on his insurance claim, it should pay 
the 50% that his insurer wasnt covering for some  damaged items, and it should pay £250 in 
total for the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
Mr T agreed  with that. BGI didnt. It said its engineer had offered to isolate the leak or open 
the taps to reduce the pressure. But Mr T had refused,  because  he wanted  to use the taps 
until he went on holiday. BGI said Mr T was shown  how to isolate  and reduce the pressure 
on the taps, and hed confirmed that he was comfortable doing this himself  before going on 
holiday. BGI was sure he hadnt done that. BGI had also previously said that it wasnt 
possible to entirely  drain down a live system,  but it said that if Mr T had turned off the water,  
then that amount of water  wouldnt  have come  out.
Our investigator didnt  change her mind. She thought BGI shouldve made every effort to get 
the active leak repaired before Mr T went on holiday. And she thought  BGI had time to do 
Ref: DRN89574792the repairs before Mr T went  on holiday. She didnt  think that it was reasonable for BGI to 
expect that, instead,  Mr T should manage with no water for three days before he went on 
holiday, then two days when he returned.  This case then came  to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-I agree  with our investigator that this repair shouldve been done  in the available  time. 
BGI had three days to do repairs before Mr T went away.  I appreciate that BGI prioritises 
emergency work on weekends, but I think it counts as an emergency  to repair an active  
leak before Mr T went away for a couple of weeks. BGI hasnt offered any compelling  
reason why it didnt  do that. And, like our investigator, I dont think the option  BGI says it 
offered Mr T, of shutting the water  off while the engineer  was there,  was reasonable, as it 
wouldve left him and his family with no water for three  days  before their holiday.
-BGI also said that it didnt think it should  be responsible for all of the damage anyway. It 
said that Mr T cant have turned off the water.  If he had, then BGI said that the problem 
wouldnt have been anywhere near as bad. 
-Mr T claimed  on his home insurance for water damage. So we asked Mr T for the loss 
adjusters report his home  insurer did. (BGI hadnt seen that when  I wrote  this provisional 
decision, but it has been sent to BGI since.) The report explicitly accepts Mr T had turned 
the water  off, and the damage  wouldve been  much worse if he hadnt. 
-Ive also looked  closely  at the photos in that report. And although  Im not an expert on 
this, it seems to me the damage was less severe  than I might have thought  from Mr Ts 
comments. So that seems  to me to be consistent with the findings in the loss adjusters 
report, and with Mr T said, about the water having been  turned off before he left. I think  
Mr T did turn off the water before he went on holiday.
-BGI queried the amount  of loss Mr T is claiming. That may be because  Mr T said this 
would cost him about £30,000. Ive not seen anything that suggests to me Mr T has lost 
that much. 
-Mr Ts home  insurer agreed to make repairs. But it wont pay the full replacement cost of 
undamaged kitchen units. The loss adjusters  report suggests  most units were  
undamaged, but his insurer cant match the existing  units.  So Mr T will need to contribute  
towards the cost of the rest if he wants his kitchen  to match.  I understand his home  
insurer will take the usual  approach of paying for half. Mr T will have to pay the rest. 
-If Mr T was making a household insurance  claim  against BGI, I would be unlikely to say 
BGI had to pay the other  half of Mr Ts repair costs. But hes not. What  Mr T says is that 
none of this wouldve happened  if BGI had repaired the leak before he went  on holiday.  
He says he called BGI when he first saw the leak, and none of the damage  that was 
caused while he was away, had happened  when the leak was first identified. 
-Although theres little evidence either  way on how much  damage had already been done 
to the home when  the leak was first noticed,  I note that the leak showed  up in the kitchen 
of Mr Ts family home, so was likely to have been spotted quickly. So I think that damage 
to Mr Ts kitchen  units was unlikely to have  been done at this stage. 
Ref: DRN89574793On balance, it seems more likely than not that Mr T wouldnt have needed to claim on his 
household insurance if the leak had been fixed promptly by BGI. And because BGI 
doesnt seem to have  put forward any reasonable explanation for not prioritising  Mr Ts 
claim, I think  its reasonable,  as our investigator  suggested, to ask it to contribute 
towards the extra costs  Mr T has faced.  So I agree  with our investigator  that BGI should 
pay Mr Ts insurance excess, which I understand was £350, and it should match the 
contribution of £8,605 towards  undamaged kitchen units that Mr Ts insurer  has made. 
-I also think Mr T has been caused  some distress  and inconvenience by this. So I agree 
with our investigator that BGI should pay a total of £250 for the impact  BGIs poor service  
has had upon  Mr T. BGI can count  £50 it says its already paid, towards that amount.
-BGI did do some damage while  it was tracing  the leak.  It has a responsibility  under Mr 
Ts policy  to replace  cabinets or cupboards,  fill in holes it has made,  and leave a level 
surface. I dont think thats quite  what Mr T is complaining about  here.  I think hes 
complaining about  damaged tiles. His policy excludes work to replace or restore  the 
original surface or coverings, for example, tiles.  I dont think that this damage is 
covered under Mr Ts insurance with BGI. So I wouldnt expect BGI to pay to repair that 
damage.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
BGI wrote to object.  Mr T said that Id missed  something in my provisional decision. We 
raised that issue with BGI, and it has now responded.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
BGI wrote to object  to my provisional decision.  It repeated the facts as it understood them, 
that Mr T had reported a leak, that it wasnt possible to fix that on the day, that Mr T had 
declined the offer of isolating the water  supply, and that it had shown  Mr T how to do this. 
BGI also repeated that it didnt think it could be responsible  for the damage,  as Mr T couldnt 
have isolated  the supply  himself before he went on holiday, and some of the damage  must 
already have been caused before BGI attended.
Mr T wrote to us to say that the costing that he had sent us was subject to VAT,  which  we 
hadnt included.  So he said that there was an additional 20% on top of the figure quoted, 
meaning he paid £1,721  more. And he wanted BGI to pay that too. Mr T also sent us new 
evidence, a quote and an invoice, which in my view supported what hed said about this 
additional cost.  
We wrote  to BGI, and I said that in view of this additional evidence, I thought that if I did 
decide to make an award along the lines of my provisional decision, it should  be increased 
by £1,712. I asked  BGI to comment on that too. 
BGI then commented that it didnt think Mr T had evidenced  the relevant costs.  It thought  
that the costings  were  too high. BGI also said that by asking it to pay 50% of the undamaged 
matching items, we were putting Mr T in a better situation than he wouldve been in. It said 
that Mr Ts own insurers wouldnt  have  paid that, for this reason. 
Ref: DRN89574794Ive considered the points in BGIs first response. I think those were dealt with in my 
provisional decision above. I wont repeat those here. BGI doesnt seem to me to have 
advanced new arguments on those points, and I havent changed my mind.
Ill now consider BGIs second response. BGI questioned the amount it was asked to pay. 
Those figures were  based on the cash  settlement that Mr T agreed with his insurer. Mr T has 
sent us an invoice, dated after this, which shows that Mr T was charged exactly  the 
estimated replacement cost for his new kitchen. Because this is what  Mr T ended up paying,  
I still think its reasonable to use these  figures as the basis  for this award. 
BGI has also suggested that Mr T is receiving an element of betterment here. It said Mr Ts 
own insurer wouldnt have paid the whole cost of the kitchen, for that reason. I expect that 
BGI is familiar with this services longstanding  approach to loss of match in areas like a 
kitchen, and I think its more likely  that Mr Ts insurer paid a 50% contribution towards the 
replacement of undamaged units for this reason, not to avoid betterment. 
I think that BGI is arguing  that if it makes  a full contribution to the replacement  cost of Mr Ts 
kitchen, then he has a new kitchen, which isnt what he had before. So he isnt being put 
back in the position he was in before. But we cant put him back  in that exact position and 
our services  position is that in order to get as close as possible to returning  the consumer to 
their position  before  the claim, lasting repairs are required. Its not practicable  to suggest 
someone should install a partly  used kitchen in Mr Ts home. But I dont  think thats what  BGI 
is suggesting, I think its arguing we should reduce the amount that BGI contributes to the 
repairs. That would mean Mr T having  to make up the difference.  
In the circumstances of this case,  and in particular of my decision that Mr Ts home wasnt  
significantly damaged  before  he called out BGI, but was then significantly damaged because 
BGI failed  to make repairs under its policy with Mr T, I think  it would be unreasonable for 
Mr T to have to make a contribution towards the repairs that had to be done as a result.  So I 
still think that BGI should pay Mr T the amounts I suggested in my provisional  decision, but 
with the addition of a payment to cover VAT on repairs to the undamaged part of the kitchen 
which Mr T has shown  he also had to pay. 
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr T a total of £10,926,  
made up of £8,605 towards the costs of kitchen repairs plus £1,721 for VAT, £350  for 
insurance excess, and £250 in compensation. British Gas Insurance  Limited  can count 
towards that amount any compensation it has already paid to Mr T.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8957479