K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr R under  a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services that he signed in May 2017.  He complained to the dealer about issues  
with the paintwork (including rust spots) and it twice arranged for the paintwork to be 
repaired. Mr Rs relationship with the dealer then deteriorated so he complained to 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services and then to this service. Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services arranged for another of the manufacturers dealers to consider Mr Rs issues. It 
arranged for an independent paintwork specialist to look at the car in August 2017  and it 
quoted for a complete respray. Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services  then arranged  for the 
paintwork to be inspected by the manufacturers  paint  and body specialist in 
September 2017. It recommended  that a thorough  three-stage polishing  process be carried 
out to remove the industrial fall-out residue  micro-spots from  the cars  paintwork. 
The investigator from this service that was dealing with that complaint recommended that 
Mr R allow  Mercedes-Benz Financial Services to complete  the three-stage polishing process 
but he said that if, after the repair was completed, the car still continued to show evidence of 
industrial fall-out, Mr R should be allowed to reject  it or be offered a replacement. But he 
didnt think that it would  be fair for him to recommend that the car was rejected or replaced 
before the manufactures repair was completed. 
He also said that Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services had agreed to replace  the rubber seals 
around the windows as part of the repair process and to pay Mr R for 160 miles of 
unauthorised use of the car, as well as £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
The repair took place  in November 2017,  but Mr R complained to Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services in June 2018 that the paintwork issues had reoccurred. It said that a further 
inspection carried out by the manufacturers paint and body specialist had confirmed that it wasnt a 
reoccurrence of the previous spots in the paintwork  but a new type  of contamination, caused by 
external influences. Mr R wasnt satisfied  with its response so complained  again  to this 
service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the repair  
work completed previously hadnt  been successful  as the rust spots had reappeared. So he 
concluded that Mr R should be allowed to reject  the car and that his deposit should be 
returned.
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services has asked  for this complaint to now be considered by an 
ombudsman. It has responded to the adjudicators recommendation  in detail and says, in 
summary, that:
the recent issue has been  caused by re-exposure to the contaminants;
the decision to repair the car was a gesture of goodwill to appease Mr R and resolve 
the situation;
the repairs resolved  his concerns  - which is clearly evident  by the time between the 
resolution and his follow-up concerns;
Ref: DRN86606652the repair was successful but it cant future-proof  against the issue  occurring again 
should the same exposure reoccur;
this isnt a reoccurrence  of an issue - its an exposure to an external influence  which  
has caused two separate  cases to impact the car and theres  no evidence to suggest 
that theyre linked,  particularly as Mr R was satisfied  for seven months;  
its impossible for the spots to be in exactly the same place;
the cars  been  contaminated by an external influence  and its not a result of a 
manufacturing defect,  so its not something for which its liable; and
all cars are subject to external contaminants through use - which could be in the form 
of bird lime, salt from the coast  or road gritting,  oil/fuel/ lubricants or airborne  
contamination such as in this case  all of which if exposed  for sufficient time will 
cause damage to a cars paintwork and no manufacturer can prevent  such  exposure 
causing damage.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to Mercedes-Benz Financial Services on 22 November 2019. In my provisional  decision 
I said as follows:
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for 
ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality. Whether it was will depend on a number of 
factors, including the age, and mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. 
The car that was supplied  to Mr R was new and I consider that it was reasonable for 
him to expect that it would  be free from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable 
and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors.
A new car was supplied  to Mr R under  a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services. Several weeks later he contacted the dealer about some 
issues with the paintwork.  If those issues had been noticeable when the car was 
supplied to him I consider it to be reasonable to expect that he wouldve discussed  
them with the dealer  at that time or contacted  the dealer about them  sooner  than he 
did. So I consider  it to be more likely than not that the rust spots and other issues  
werent visible when  the car was supplied to Mr R.
When the car was returned to the dealer  it twice attempted to deal with the issues but 
Mr R remained  unhappy with the paintwork and his relationship with the dealer 
deteriorated. He complained to Mercedes-Benz Financial Services and it arranged 
for another  of the manufacturers dealers to consider Mr Rs issues. It arranged for an 
independent paintwork specialist to look at the car in August 2017  and it quoted for a 
complete respray of the car. But Ive not seen any written evidence  to show that the 
specialist said that there  was a manufacturing  defect with the cars  paintwork or that 
the paintwork  wasnt of satisfactory quality. It did say that: 
 all the trims  have  been tarnished  with polish residue from previous 
polishing . 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services then arranged for the cars paintwork to be 
inspected by the manufacturers  paint and body specialist in September  2017. It 
recommended that a thorough  three-stage polishing process be carried out to remove 
Ref: DRN86606653the industrial fall-out residue micro-spots from the cars paintwork.  And Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services agreed  to replace the rubber  seals around the windows as part of 
the repair process. The polishing process  took place in November 2017 and I 
consider it reasonable to conclude that it was successful and that the paintwork was 
restored to a condition that was acceptable to Mr R - because he didnt complain  
about the paintwork again until June 2018. That was about seven months after the 
repair. 
So the paintwork was acceptable to Mr R when the car was supplied to him but he 
then noticed rust spots and other issues with it. Those issues were resolved when 
the car was polished  in November 2017  and didnt reappear for about seven months.  
The only paintwork specialist who has provided  any information about Mr Rs car 
says that the issues have been caused by industrial  fall-out residue.  And Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services has described in detail the inspection  process  that took place. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the issues  with the cars 
paintwork have been caused by a manufacturing defect or that it wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when the car was supplied  to Mr R. So I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require Mercedes-Benz Financial  
Services to accept Mr Rs rejection of the car.
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services arranged  the polishing  process that took place  in 
November 2017,  replaced the rubber seals around the windows,  paid Mr R for 160 
miles of use in the car and paid him £250  compensation. Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any further action in response 
to his complaint.  
Mr Rs hire purchase agreement ends in May 2020  and hell then be able to return 
the car if he chooses  to do so. If he wants to return the car before then, I suggest that 
he contacts Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services to see what  options are available for 
him to end his agreement  early. 
So subject to any further representations by Mr R or Mercedes-Benz Financial Services,  my 
provisional decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr R has responded to my provisional  decision in detail and says, in summary,  that:
he hasnt received £250 or been reimbursed for the mileage and the rubber seals 
havent been replaced as he rejected all of Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services offers;
he phoned the dealer  after five days when he washed the car and found the rust 
spots under  the wax (and it had been on his drive as he was on holiday);
the dealer  and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services have  dealt with him poorly;
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services half heartedly tried to repair the car twice but it 
was returned to him in a poor state;
the air born chemical  contamination  that it keeps mentioning doesn't  exist and the 
rust spots are 95% on the bonnet  and the boot and not the roof, doors or bumpers;
the paint on new cars isnt at a high level;
the three stage  polish never happened as the car wasnt  relayed to the repair centre;  
and
the rust was on the car before  he was given it and hes given three possible reasons 
for that.
Ref: DRN86606654my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services says that Mr R was offered £250 compensation but didnt 
accept it and that it raised a £100 goodwill payment for him in August 2017 when it first 
investigated his concerns.  It says that its now raised  a payment of £250  for him which he 
should by now have received. And it says that if theres an issue with the rubber seals 
following the polish,  the dealer will be able to replace them for him and if he has any 
problems he should  contact the Mercedes-Benz  Financial  Services  representative whos  
been dealing  with his complaint.
Mr R says that the three stage polish never happened. But Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services says that it took place in November 2017. And I consider  it to be reasonable to 
conclude that it took place,  was successful and that the paintwork was restored to a 
condition that was acceptable  to Mr R - because he didnt complain about the paintwork 
again until June  2018 which was about seven months after the repair. 
Ive considered all of the comments  that Mr R has made in response to my provisional 
decision. But the only paintwork specialist that has provided any information about  Mr Rs 
car says that the issues have been  caused by industrial fall-out residue. And Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services has described in detail the inspection  process  that took place. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the issues  with the cars 
paintwork have been caused by a manufacturing defect or that it wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality when the car was supplied to Mr R. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services to accept  Mr Rs 
rejection of the car.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8660665