K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs C bought the policy in June 1997 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. She says 
she applied  for the mortgage and PPI policy during a meeting in branch. Due to the time that 
has passed, BoS says its not clear how Mrs C applied  for her mortgage and PPI policy. 
However, BoS has treated this as a branch sale. I have  also considered this complaint on 
the basis that the PPI policy was sold during a meeting in branch in line with Mrs Cs 
recollection.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs C for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £200 a month towards Mrs Cs mortgage  
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £13 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs C was employed  as a clerical assistant. In her PPIQ she has also referred to 
another role. We requested further details about  this role, however, we have not received 
anything further  information from Mrs C about  it. Having said that, BoS has provided us with 
details of a call with Mrs C in which she was asked about this other role. And it appears she 
could not confirm whether she was in fact in that role in addition to her other  employment  at 
the time of the sale. In any event she appears to have told BoS that it was casual, weekend  
work with no guarantee of hours. 
In respect of her role as clerical assistant  Mrs C has told us that she would have received at 
least six months full pay (she told BoS she would have received six months full pay followed 
by six months half pay).  In her PPIQ  she says she would have been  entitled to at least 12 
months redundancy pay, however, she appears to have told BoS she couldnt  remember  
how much  redundancy  pay she would have  been entitled to. Mrs C has also told us that she 
didnt have any other means  (such as savings or other insurance policies) of repaying  her 
mortgage should she be unable to work. Mrs C has said she had a medical condition at the 
time of the sale. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2003 
Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Cs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Cs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN83915422The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs C about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs C and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN83915423There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Cs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Cs complaint. 
Ref: DRN83915424key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs C sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs C and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs C know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Given the length of time that has passed  since the sale, BoS, understandably, no longer has 
documents available from the time of the sale. So while  it says PPI would have been 
presented as optional, it is unable show us documentary evidence of this. Mrs C hasnt 
raised detailed  concerns  about the PPI not being  presented as optional  her focus  is more  
on the lack of explanation  provided. And I havent  seen evidence  which  would lead me to 
conclude that Mrs C was pressured into taking PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs C knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it will treat this sale as though  it was an advised sale.  Mrs C says (in her PPI 
questionnaire) that she cant  recall whether she was provided with advice or not. Given  that I 
have considered this sale to have taken place in a branch during a meeting and that it was in 
connection with a mortgage and BoS have therefore  treated it as an advised  sale, I think  its 
more likely BoS did provide Mrs C with advice. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mrs C with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs C. It seems  Mrs C cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
Ref: DRN83915425there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about Mrs 
Cs financial  circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps 
to establish whether Mrs C would  have been  caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  BoS considered whether Mrs C had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs C given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs C had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Cs ability  to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Mrs C was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sick pay benefits she 
says she would  have  been entitled to. As already mentioned  there is lack of clarity 
around her redundancy pay. In any event the policy  would  have paid out in addition  
to her sick pay and any redundancy pay entitlement.
-Although Mrs C says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs C. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Cs employment  or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  Although  she has referred  to having two jobs in her PPI 
questionnaire, as already set out, it appears she is not sure whether  she did in fact 
have the second role at the time of this sale.  In any event given that it appears to 
have been a casual role with no guarantee of any work,  it does not appear  she was 
heavily reliant on this role for income  purposes. Regarding pre-existing medical 
conditions, Mrs C has told us about  a medical condition she suffered from and which  
resulted in her undergoing an operation. However,  this was around  six years before 
this sale and there is no evidence to suggest it caused her ongoing  problems to the 
extent that she is likely to have  needed  to take time off work for it at the time of the 
sale. There were  also no additional restrictions on cover  for mental  health  or back 
problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  that the 
disability should  wholly prevent her from doing  not only her work but any other work 
which her experience, education or training allowed  her to do, the requirement that 
Mrs C be disabled or unemployed  for 60 days before she could  make  a claim and the 
fact the policy  would only pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim), 
the policy still provided valuable cover given:
Mrs Cs circumstances, including her employers  sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
Ref: DRN8391542660-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs C be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs C sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs C was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs C was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs C would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs C agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs C Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mrs C all of the information she needed  
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
Ref: DRN83915427think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs C has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mrs C? To what extent did Mrs C suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs C. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs C 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs C 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs C, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs C has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Mrs C would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs C says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs C had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Cs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs C knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told her the exact premium at the point Mrs C applied for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mrs C would have been  told the cost before the 
policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might  have  
raised that with BoS at the time,  or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs C would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
Ref: DRN83915428In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mrs C would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Cs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs C thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to conditions for which  treatment had been given 
to Mrs C (or a diagnosis  had been made or for which investigations  had begun  
whether diagnosed or not) by a medical  practitioner  during the 12 month period 
before the start date which reoccurred within 12 months of the start date; or a chronic 
or continuing disease that Mrs C was aware  of at the start date which reoccurred 
within 12 months of the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs C 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs C be wholly 
unable to do her own job, or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training allowed her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs C pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs C from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs C says she had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out, I dont think better  information  about this exclusion 
would have put her off agreeing to it. I say this because the condition arose around six years  
before the policy was taken out and there  is no evidence to suggest that it deteriorated over 
time or that Mrs C continued to need to take time off work because of it such  that it would 
have put her off taking  the policy out at the time of this sale.  Mrs C has also mentioned other 
medical conditions,  but these  wouldnt  have  affected her ability to make a disability claim 
under the policy  as these conditions occurred some  years  after the policy  had been  taken  
out.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs C would have  
Ref: DRN83915429expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs C had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her 
job but also unable  to do any job which her experience, education  or training allowed her to 
do, it might  have played into her thinking  about  what she would do. And I accept it may have 
given her pause for thought  although  given Mrs Cs circumstances, on balance,  I still think 
she would  have been interested in taking out the cover.
BoS may not have told Mrs C that any claim she made would be limited to a 12 month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs C would have received full sick pay for and possibly 
covered a longer period  of time than her redundancy pay entitlement.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs C would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs C be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mrs Cs sick pay or redundancy money for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs C was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs C 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs C would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs C 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN839154210proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs C in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs C compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs C thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mrs C, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mrs C and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8391542