K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Express Gifts Ltd, trading as Studio (Studio)  has miscalculated the 
balance on her account.
background
Ms B said her view of her account balance differs from what  Studio have told her. She says 
on 8 December 2017 her account  balance shouldve been  £541.36 which  would have left 
£8.64 for her to spend  as her credit limit was £550. But she says Studio said her balance  
was £0.64. Ms B went  on to explain that two items  of £9.99 and £4.99 werent credited to her 
account when  they were  returned and she says an item valued at £24.99  that she cancelled  
and shouldnt have  been charged  for was credited  back to her but then disappeared.
Studio agreed  that the order  for £24.99 wasnt actioned in time and this meant that Ms B had 
to make an additional and unnecessary payment to bring her account up to date. They said it 
was credited back later and so were the other  two items Ms B referred to of £9.99  and £4.99.  
In recognition of their mistake they offered  Ms B £30 compensation but Ms B didnt accept 
that and instead she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think Studio needed  to take any further action. She looked at Ms Bs 
statements from May 2017 until January 2018.  She noted that Studio charged her for the 
item she cancelled  and didnt process  her request to cancel when they should have. She 
also noticed that, as a result Ms B had to pay £30 into her account because  there  were  
insufficient funds.
She said that Studio had recognised they shouldnt have  charged Ms B for the item she 
cancelled, as it hadnt been  dispatched, but she said it was clear  they had reimbursed this 
money and refunded the late payment charges shed incurred as a result. 
She considered what Ms B had said, about  the balance  of her account  being wrong on 
8 December 2017, but having reviewed her statements she couldnt  agree it was, or should 
have been £8.64. She said the figures Studio had supplied her matched up with the 
statement of Ms Bs account  and whilst she understood Ms B had said the account  balance 
shed seen on line, showed a different balance, she hadnt been able to provide a 
screenshot of this information and the evidence she had to consider didnt support Ms Bs 
assertions. So she didnt think Studio needed  to take any further action.
But Ms B was still dissatisfied. She was unhappy with the assessment that had been made 
and she asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will really  disappoint Ms B but having  considered the evidence Im not persuaded 
that Studio need to take any further  action.
I can see that Ms B feels very strongly about  how her account has been managed. I dont 
doubt at all that she believes her account  has been  mismanaged but having reviewed her 
account statements  and order  history I dont think the evidence  suggests there have  been  
Ref: DRN84121632any other problems than the ones the investigator  has highlighted and the business has 
accepted. Please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the balance of account
Ms B says that on 8 December 2017 her account  balance should have been  £541.36.  Ive 
reviewed her statement  for that period which  is dated 24 December  2017  and cant see how 
that balance would be generated. It shows a starting balance  of £495.69 a debit of £47.96 
on 30/11/17 and a credit of £100  on 8/12/17. 
Ms B hasnt been  able to supply a screenshot to demonstrate where the balance of £541.36 
comes from and I cant see anything wrong  with the way the statement balance has been 
arrived at. The figures add up and the transactions are accounted for in the order  history Ive 
seen. So I think the balance of account  has been  properly formulated.
missing transactions
I accept that the order Ms B cancelled was never  dispatched and shouldnt have been  
debited from her account. This charge meant  that Ms Bs account was overdrawn:  she had 
to make an unnecessary  payment and she incurred  a late payment charge. But Studio 
returned this payment  of £24.99 the following month and they reimbursed the late payment 
charge and have  offered £30 compensation to Ms B for the inconvenience their mistake 
caused. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
There were two further transactions of £9.99 and £4.99 that Ms B says should  have  been  
returned to her. But I can see that these items were refunded  in January 2018. Theres  a 
credit of £14.98  on Ms Bs account. So I dont think theres evidence here that payments 
havent been returned or that Ms Bs account balance is incorrect  and I therefore dont think  
Studio need to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8412163