K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Home  Retail Group Insurance Services Limited  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss M bought the policy in 2008, at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt planning to uphold  the complaint. 
Home Retail  Group had nothing further  to add. And Miss M provided some  additional 
information about a life and critical illness insurance policy  she held. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint because:
From what we know about how Home  Retail  Group sold this PPI, the internet application 
described the policy (branded as CoverSafe) as optional and required Miss M to tick one 
of three boxes  to show what, if any, level of cover she wanted. This choice was also 
shown on the credit agreement, albeit pre-populated based  on the choice she made 
online. Miss M wouldve signed  the credit agreement to confirm she was happy  with the 
selection and apply for the card. So, I think Home Retail  Group made Miss M aware that 
she had a choice  about buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
Home Retail Group didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M, so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her.
Its possible the information Home Retail Group gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been. But Miss M doesnt  appear  to have been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover   and based  on what  I know  about her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. So, I dont  think better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying it.
Ive taken into account Miss Ms comments,  including what shes said about  having sick pay, 
savings and other insurance  in place. But these points dont change  my conclusion.  Her sick 
pay was limited to six weeks full pay, followed  by statutory  sick pay (and any on top of this 
only at the discretion of her employer, so wasnt guaranteed), and she had limited savings 
(less than three months of her salary).
Ive also taken into account that Miss M had an income protection  insurance  policy  in place  
at the time she took out the PPI. So, Ive thought about whether better information about the 
Ref: DRN84134012cost and benefits of the PPI wouldve led her to decline the PPI  in light of the cover 
provided by her income protection policy. But I dont think  it would  have.
The income protection policy  covered  Miss M for being off work due to accident and 
sickness. It had an 8-week  deferral period, which is much longer  than the 15 days  of the PPI 
policy, and longer than her sick pay wouldve  lasted.  So, without the PPI, Miss M may have 
fallen into arrears on her store card account  before  her income protection policy started 
paying out.
In addition to this, it appears  that the income protection  paid out the equivalent of only a third 
of Miss Ms take-home pay. It seems doubtful that this wouldve been sufficient to pay her 
essential living costs,  such  as housing, bills and groceries, and still leave enough for Miss M 
to keep up with her store card payments.
So, overall, I think Miss M would still have  thought  the PPI was worthwhile if shed fully 
understood the costs and benefits of the PPI at the point of sale. If shed been  off sick 
indefinitely, the PPI would eventually have  paid off her outstanding balance.  It also provided  
cover for unemployment and wouldve paid off the balance  if shed died,  been  diagnosed 
with certain serious  illnesses or become a permanent carer. It also provided purchase 
protection for 90 days for goods purchased using the store card.  So, even with better 
information about the PPI, I think she would still have taken it  despite having the income 
protection policy available to her.
I dont think the presence of a life and critical illness policy  wouldve made any difference to 
Miss Ms decision. This paid out a lump sum to pay off her mortgage if she or her partner 
died or was diagnosed  with certain  serious  illnesses or became totally and permanently 
disabled. So, she couldve claimed on the PPI for many more  circumstances than she 
couldve claimed on the life and critical illness  policy. 
Finally, while  the rules about high levels of undisclosed commission  and profit share  dont 
apply to Home Retail  Group  (as it was not the lender), I understand it has paid a refund  of 
commission and profit share in line with those rules.  And I dont think it needs  to do anything  
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not planning  to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8413401