K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr P between  March and June 
2018.  Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 02/03/2018 29/06/2018 4 £300.00 £124.36
2 30/06/2018 outstanding 4 £300.00 £124.92
On the most recent review, our adjudicator upheld Mr Ps complaint  and thought loan 2 
shouldnt have been given because the information Uncle  Buck had gathered  about  him 
showed Mr P couldnt afford the loan.  
Uncle Buck  disagreed and said Mr Ps credit  file didnt  show any outstanding loans. And the 
information Mr P had given it when he applied  for the loan showed  he had enough 
disposable income. Uncle Buck requested an ombudsmans review of the complaint and it 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN87284002There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr Ps 
complaint about  loan 2. Ill explain why.  
I think Uncle Buck ought to have realised that Mr P wouldnt  have  been  able to make his 
repayments for his loan sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see Uncle Buck 
did income/expenditure and credit checks on Mr P before it lent him loan 2. And I can see 
that Uncle Buck has provided its findings from those  checks,  including  the reports from the 
credit checks, to us. 
Having reviewed all of this, I dont think Mr P was able to repay loan 2 in a sustainable 
manner. The credit check reports show that Mr P already had several outstanding debts 
including other  short-term loans as well as longer term loans. 
Mr P told Uncle Buck  that his monthly income was £1,750 and his stated outgoings were 
£950. But from the credit checks  reports provided to us by Uncle Buck,  it shows  that Mr Ps 
total monthly repayments owed on any fixed term account was £1,940.  Therefore, his 
outgoings for what he owed on these loans  exceeded his incomings by £190. So, although 
this was early in the lending relationship between Uncle Buck and Mr P, it was aware  from 
the information it has provided,  that Mr P would  be unable to sustainably  repay loan 2. 
I think this was a clear indication that Mr P was in a debt cycle and relying upon borrowing to 
repay borrowing. So, Im also upholding the complaint  about  loan 2 and Uncle  Buck should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
It isnt clear from the information  Uncle Buck  has given us whether the outstanding  balance 
due on the final loan has been  transferred to a third party. If it has, then Uncle  Buck should 
buy the loan back  if it can. If Uncle Buck cant buy the loan back  than it needs  to work with 
the third party  to make sure the following is achieved:
Ref: DRN87284003refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
rework loan 2 applying all payments made  by Mr P as if they went towards  the 
principal amount borrowed. But importantly,  Uncle Buck needs to make  sure that it 
collects no more than the principal sum lent. 
If the amount  Mr P has paid exceeds  the amount he was lent, any further amounts 
paid should be treated  as overpayments. Any overpayments that may have been 
made should be refunded to Mr P with 8% simple  interest from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement ;
if there is still an outstanding balance, any refunds  should  be used to repay any 
balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If there  is any surplus this should be 
repaid to Mr P.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ps credit file in relation to loan 2. 
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr P still has an outstanding  balance due on loan 2 then it should 
try and work  together  to come to a mutually  agreeable  repayment  plan in order to repay 
what is owed. But Id remind Uncle Buck of its obligation to treat Mr P fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8728400