K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Lloyds Bank PLC  trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester plc (C&G) - mis-sold 
her a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
In 2005, Miss B took out a PPI policy alongside her existing mortgage.  She paid a monthly  
amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Bs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
C&G should have  made it clear to Miss B that she had a choice in buying  the PPI. Miss B 
says she didnt know she had the policy. C&G has said Miss B wouldve been aware she 
had a choice about buying  it. And its provided  us with copies of the PPI documents  Miss B 
completed at the time. 
There is a proposal form for the PPI which has been  completed and Miss B has signed.  This 
leads me to think that there was a discussion around the policy and Miss B selected the level 
of cover which best suited  her circumstances at the time. And based on what  I know  about 
how C&G sold policies  like this at the time,  I think the optional  nature would have  been  made  
clear. 
So I think most likely that C&G  made Miss B aware  that she had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that she chose  to take it  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this 
now. 
C&G recommended the PPI to Miss B so it had to make sure the policy was right for her. 
From what  Ive seen, it seems to have been  suitable  for Miss B based on her circumstances 
at the time. Ill explain why:
Miss B met the policys requirements  so was eligible  for it.
Miss B says she wouldve received sick pay benefits from her employer. In the event 
of a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid her mortgage repayments  for up to 12 
months if she was unable to work due to being too unwell. It would have  also covered 
her if she became unemployed. The policy wouldve paid out alongside  Miss Bs 
employee benefits. This would  have meant she could  have  used any sick pay she got 
to pay for other essential costs. 
Ive noted  Miss Bs comments about  other assets she couldve relied on to make her 
repayments if she wasnt able to work. But shes not gone into much  detail about 
Ref: DRN80755272what these were. However, having  the PPI wouldve meant she could have used 
these other  means  to pay for other essential  costs  if she had been too unwell to work  
or made unemployed.  
It doesnt look like there was anything about  Miss Bs circumstances that wouldve 
made it difficult for her to claim.  For example, she didnt have any unusual  working  
patterns or an existing  medical  condition. 
I think C&G couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Miss B would still have  bought  it. Miss B was taking on a large financial 
commitment - on her own - secured against  her home. So I think she wouldve 
wanted the security  of knowing  her mortgage  repayments were covered if she was 
too sick to work or became unemployed. And it doesnt look like the policy  was 
unaffordable for her.  
As well as making sure the PPI was right for her, C&G  shouldve  taken reasonable steps  to 
point out the main things the policy didnt cover to Miss B. I dont know  if C&G did point 
these things out. But Ive explained why I think the PPI was right for Miss B. And I dont think  
clearer information wouldve changed  her decision. I think she still would have bought it. I 
say this for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for her. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Miss B has lost out as a result of anything 
C&G mightve done wrong. 
Ive also thought about whether C&G needs  to give Miss B some of the commission she paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Miss Bs mortgage became a 
regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008  they dont apply. So C&G doesnt need to refund any 
of the commission  Miss B paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8075527