K822xcomplaint
Miss B has complained  that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a Select  packaged 
bank account.  She has also complained that Lloyds refused to downgrade her account when 
it entered collections and that she suffered financial difficulties.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 August 2019 setting out why I thought  this complaint 
should be upheld  and explained what I thought Lloyds should do to put matters right. Ive 
attached a copy of my provisional decision below and it forms part of this decision.
Miss B responded to my provisional decision.  She said that shed also experienced financial 
difficulties before 2008. She says she took out a refinancing loan in 2006 and the loan was 
referred to a debt collection  agency  without her knowledge and shed  also complained about 
the debt collection  agencies actions. Miss B says she also had a County Court  Judgement  
about a debt for an address she didnt  live at, but as it happened  over 6 years  ago she 
presumes it no longer shows on her credit  file. Miss B says that everything financially was 
really messy and that struggling financially affected  her mental  wellbeing.
Lloyds responded to the provisional decision  and agreed with my findings. Lloyds worked  out 
what position Miss Bs account wouldve been  in had it not applied  the overdraft  charges and 
associated interest from November 2008  until June  2010. And it says that her account 
balance wouldve only been  £108.43 overdrawn.  It says that this is below its minimum 
amount needed  to obtain a refinancing loan. So says its likely that it wouldve instead 
recommended Miss B manage her overdraft down with gradually  decreasing  limits. 
Lloyds concluded  that had it waived  the overdraft charges and associated interest, it was 
unlikely that Miss B wouldve  taken out a refinancing  loan at all. So has offered to refund 
what Miss B paid towards  the refinancing loan less the £108.43 overdrawn balance,  plus 8% 
simple interest on this amount.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive taken this into account 
when considering this complaint.
As explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything  further,  
beyond what it has already agreed  to do, in relation  to putting Miss B back  in the position 
she wouldve been in had the Select account not been sold to her. And neither Lloyds nor 
Miss B have provided anything further  to change my thoughts  on this.
Ive carefully considered  what Miss B has said in her response to my provisional  decision. 
And Im sorry to hear that Miss B was struggling financially for so long. But when Miss B 
originally complained to Lloyds,  shed only referred to her financial difficulties when her 
account was passed to its collections  department in November 2008. So Im unable to look 
into the points  she raised  about her suffering financial difficulties before November 2008. 
Ref: DRN80306882Turning now to Lloydss  response to my provisional  decision, I think what  it has proposed is 
reasonable. It has calculated that Miss Bs account wouldve been £108.43 overdrawn in 
June 2010, had it waived the unarranged  overdraft  charges and in turn not charged  overdraft  
interest on those charges  whilst the account  had been in its collections department. 
And given  what Lloyds has said about  its minimum refinancing loan amount, I agree with 
Lloyds that its likely Miss B wouldve continued  to manage her overdraft  down to a credit 
balance, had her account  balance only been £108.43 overdrawn by June 2010. And had this 
been the case, its likely Miss B wouldve still been required to pay interest on the overdrawn 
balance, at the (higher) overdraft interest rate, instead of the loan interest  rate.
So I think Lloydss offer to refund all of what Miss B paid towards the refinancing loan, less 
the outstanding balance  of £108.43,  is reasonable in the circumstances.  And Lloyds has 
calculated this to have been  £1,713.46 (i.e. £1,821.89 less £108.43).     
As Miss B has not had the benefit  of this money,  Lloyds  has also agreed to pay 8% simple 
interest on the total amount to be refunded, from the date the loan was taken to the date of 
settlement, less deductible tax. Again I think this is reasonable  and in line with my 
recommendations (under option 2) as set out in my provisional decision.  
what Lloyds needs to do to put matters right
So, in addition to what Lloyds has already done to put matters right about the mis-sale of the 
Select account, it should also:
Refund the total amounts Miss B paid towards  the refinancing loan she took out in 
June 2010, less the outstanding account  balance of £108.43;  and
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount to be refunded, calculated from the date the 
loan was taken  out to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Miss B a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint 
and require Lloyds  Bank PLC to do what has been set out above in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October  2019
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80306883Copy of my Provisional Decision
complaint
Miss B has complained  that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a Select  packaged 
bank account.  She has also complained that Lloyds refused to downgrade her account when 
it entered collections and that she suffered financial difficulties.
Background
Miss B held a Select account from 1 October  2003  until 18 May 2009, when she 
downgraded her account to a fee-free account.  
In response to Miss Bs complaint, Lloyds agreed to refund the account  fees between  
January 2006  and May 2009  and paid her interest  on those fees at a rate of 8% simple, less 
tax. 
However, Miss B referred her complaint  to our service as she wanted a full refund of the 
Select account fees and also wanted  a refund  of overdraft charges shed incurred when she 
was suffering from financial difficulties in 2008. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and thought that the Select account had 
been mis-sold and asked  Lloyds to refund the remaining  Select account fees that hadnt 
been refunded,  plus 8% simple interest.  Lloyds agreed and offered to refund the remaining 
Select account fees, plus 8% simple interest  on those fees. It also offered to refund £215.98  
of overdraft fees which, it had calculated, would  not have been  charged had Miss Bs 
account been a standard  fee-free account  rather than a Select account.
The adjudicator also asked Lloyds to refund the overdraft  charges applied to Miss Bs 
account when  her account  was passed  to collections, which Lloyds  believes took place in 
November 2008.  However, Lloyds didnt  think a refund of any further overdraft charges was 
warranted.
Because Miss B didnt  accept Lloydss revised offer to refund all of the Select account fees 
plus 8% simple interest and as Lloyds didnt think any further overdraft charges should be 
refunded either, the complaint has been referred  to me for a final decision.
I understand that Miss B later upgraded her account  to a Silver account  and had complained 
that Lloyds had not downgraded it when shed  asked for it to be. Miss B also complained  that 
Lloyds had written to an incorrect address. However, as those matters are not part of this 
complaint, I wont be addressing them  within this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  and Ive taken this into consideration 
when deciding this complaint.
Ref: DRN80306884Select account fees redress
The adjudicator concluded that the Select account  had been  mis-sold and Lloyds  accepted 
this, therefore its no longer  in dispute that it was mis-sold. But Miss B appears to dispute the 
amount offered by Lloyds to put things right, so I have looked at what  Lloyds has offered to 
pay Miss B to put matters right. 
Miss B disputes that the amount offered by Lloyds to refund  the remaining account  fees (with  
interest) is correct. She believes the amount paid to her following Lloyds revised offer is far 
too low and should be a lot more.  But the revised  offer made by Lloyds represents a refund 
of the Select account fees Miss B was charged  between October  2003  and January 2006. 
And Miss B was only paying £2 a month  - which  later increased to £3.50 a month for 6 
months - in this period.  Therefore Miss B had been  paying far less in monthly  account  fees in 
the period covered by the revised  offer,  than what she had paid in the period covered by 
Lloyds initial offer. So this explains why the revised offer was less than the amount of 
Lloyds initial offer and less than what Miss B mayve been expecting.
I note that Miss B has also complained that she tried to downgrade her Select account when 
her account  was passed to collections (which took place  around November 2008) and she 
says she was prevented  from doing so. Lloydss collection notes show  that it discussed 
downgrading the account  with Miss B on 29 January 2009, but Miss B didnt  want to do so 
as she was using  the account benefits.  
However, even if it was the case that Miss B did want to downgrade her account and she 
was prevented from doing so (although Im not saying  that was the case), the amount of 
redress already paid by Lloyds  puts Miss B back into the position  she wouldve been in had 
she never had a Select account. And this includes a refund of overdraft charges and interest 
that wouldnt have  been charged had her account  been a fee-free account instead.  So even 
if Miss B was unreasonably prevented from downgrading her Select  account, I think that 
what Lloyds has already done  to put matters  right is sufficient. 
Having considered Lloydss refund of account fees, the award  of 8% simple interest and the 
refund of overdraft charges and interest, I think how it calculated the redress  is reasonable in 
the circumstances. So therefore I dont require  Lloyds to make  any further refund in relation  
to the refund  of Select account fees.
Refund of overdraft charges
Miss B has also asked that overdraft charges be refunded to her as she was suffering from 
financial difficulties. She says that having a packaged account meant that she had to pay 
even more in overdraft charges than she wouldve, had she held a standard fee-free account 
instead.
So, to help me make a decision  on this point, Ive looked at everything  that both parties have 
provided, particularly  the customer  notes and collection notes that Lloyds has been able to 
provide, as well as Miss Bs bank statements from the time. 
Ref: DRN80306885Firstly, as mentioned above, I note that Lloyds revised offer already includes £215.98 of 
overdraft charges and interest. This comprises  of £212 in returned  item fees and £1.98  in 
overdraft interest, that it calculates would not have been charged  had Miss Bs account  not 
been a Select account. Having looked at how Lloyds calculated this, again  it doesnt look to 
be unreasonable and I note that most of the overdraft charges that were  applied to the 
account were because of the spending on the account and not just because  of the account 
fee being debited from the balance.
However, Lloyds had a duty to treat Miss B sympathetically and positively should she have 
been experiencing financial  difficulties.  I cant see that in the months prior to November 2008 
Miss B made Lloyds aware  that she was suffering from financial difficulties. And its not 
always the case that an account  holder paying  overdraft  charges each  month means they 
must be in financial difficulties, as ultimately that is how some  account holders choose to 
operate their account. So I dont think it was necessarily unreasonable  that Lloyds wasnt  
aware of Miss Bs financial difficulties in the months prior to November 2008.
But by November 2008, it was a different story. Lloyds transferred Miss Bs account to its 
collections department.  And I think this, combined  with the amount of overdraft charges that 
Miss B was consistently  paying ought to have prompted Lloyds to speak to Miss B about her 
financial circumstances and to offer support.
Looking at the statements and collection notes, its clear that Miss Bs account  remained 
significantly (based  on her account history and the agreed overdraft limit at the time) 
overdrawn from November 2008 until Lloyds refinanced Miss Bs debt with a loan in June 
2010. Miss B has said that she was unhappy  that Lloyds had refinanced her debt into a loan. 
But I think this was a positive step taken  by Lloyds and meant that she was paying less in 
interest and charges than what she wouldve paid had she kept her account overdrawn by 
the same  amount.
However, in the period between November  2008  and June 2010,  Miss Bs indebtedness 
didnt decrease  and despite  this I cant see that Lloyds did much in terms of offering 
assistance to Miss B. I find this surprising, as I can see that Miss B told Lloyds about 
financial difficulties previously in November 2004,  February 2006 and December 2006 and 
Lloyds had taken  a more proactive approach in helping and supporting  Miss B on those 
occasions.
The collection notes show that Lloyds arranged a repayment plan whereby Miss B would 
reduce her balance by £50 per month. And I think this is not an unreasonable step to take.  
But, looking  at the amounts that Miss B was able to credit each month, compared to the 
expenditure on the account, I think it shouldve been  apparent  to Lloyds that, that even with 
the repayment plan, Miss B couldnt afford  to reduce  her debt and pay all the interest  and 
charges being  applied  each month.  I take this view particularly  because Miss Bs account 
remained in essentially the same position from when  it first went  into collections until it was 
refinanced  which was a considerable period  of time. So I think  Lloyds couldve offered 
more assistance,  earlier on, to Miss B.
I appreciate that it wont always  be reasonable or appropriate for interest or charges to be 
waived where someone is struggling financially. But I think  in this case, had Lloyds  offered to 
waive the unplanned overdraft charges (which were  often around £75 per month),  Miss B 
wouldve had a much  better chance  of gradually reducing her indebtedness. And had it done 
so, I think its likely that the amount to be refinanced wouldve been a lot less. 
Ref: DRN80306886Ive considered whether the overdraft  interest  should  also have been waived, as Miss B 
believes it shouldve been.  But looking at the amounts  charged, I dont think this wouldve 
been necessary  as waiving just the unplanned overdraft fees alone probably wouldve been 
enough for Miss B to have  sustainably repaid, or at least significantly reduced, the 
overdrawn balance on her account  to the point that she wouldnt have been charged further 
unplanned overdraft  charges. 
It appears that Miss B was subsequently  charged  debit  interest  on the increased balance 
which included those  unplanned overdraft charges. So I think  it is reasonable that Lloyds 
also refund  any overdraft interest  that Miss B paid on the unplanned overdraft charges - from 
when they were debited from the account  until Miss Bs account was brought back to a credit  
balance as a result of the debt refinancing. 
I think its likely that the amount Miss B had to borrow to refinance  her debt into a loan 
wouldve been much  less, had the unplanned overdraft fees been waived. 
So to put Miss B back into the position  she wouldve been  in had the unplanned overdraft 
charges been  waived,  I think  Lloyds should work out if Miss Bs account wouldve still been 
overdrawn in June  2010 had those charges and the interest associated with them  not been 
applied to the account. If it wouldve  been, Lloyds should pay back  to Miss B the difference  
between what she wouldve paid to refinance that amount and what she did pay. This is 
because Miss B wouldnt have had to borrow as much to refinance her debt, had she not 
been charged the unplanned overdraft fees and associated interest.
But if Lloyds works  out that waiving the unplanned overdraft charges wouldve meant the 
account would not have  been overdrawn in June 2010, then had things gone  as they 
shouldve, Miss B wouldnt have needed to take out the refinancing  loan at all and she 
should be compensated for this.   
So taking everything into account, whilst I think that some of the steps Lloyds took were 
reasonable, I dont  think they went far enough  in the circumstances of this complaint. And I 
think that Miss B lost out because  of this.
Putting matters  right
In addition to what Lloyds has already done  to put matters right,  I currently  think  it should  
also:
Reconstruct Miss Bs account  between  November 2008 and June 2010 by removing all 
unplanned overdraft  charges and overdraft interest  (that hasnt been refunded already) she 
incurred on those charges; and
If, after doing this, there wouldve been no overdrawn balance or the account 
wouldve been in a credit balance, Lloyds  should refund all of Miss Bs refinanced  
loan repayments  (as well as the amount of any credit balance) and pay 8% simple 
interest on those payments, from when they were paid until the date of settlement; or
If, after doing this, there is still an overdrawn balance by the time Miss B took out the 
refinanced loan, Lloyds should  work  out the difference between what Miss B did 
repay on the loan and what  she wouldve paid to refinance the reconstructed 
overdrawn balance, and pay 8% simple interest on the difference  of those 
repayments, from when she paid them to the date of settlement.  
Ref: DRN80306887 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Miss B a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
For me to be able to decide whether option 1 or 2 should apply in my final decision, I require 
Lloyds to provide  me with the results of its reconstruction, in its response  to this provisional  
decision.
my provisional decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I currently think that the complaint should  be upheld  
and I intend to require Lloyds Bank PLC to do what I have outlined above to put matters  
right.
I now invite Miss B and Lloyds Bank PLC to give me any further information they want me to 
consider, before I make my final decision. This must  be provided to us by 2 August 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8030688