K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Mrs W had two loans from Mr Lender between January and July 2013 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Repayment Due Rollovers Repaid
1 5 Jan 2013 £400 £520 31 Jan 2013 5 10 Jun 2013
2 2 Jul 2013 £500 £650 31 Jul 2013 2 14 Oct 2013
Mrs W says she had short-term loans with other  lenders  when she applied for the Mr Lender 
loans. She says she had a poor credit rating and could not afford the repayments.  As a 
result, Mrs W says her mental health  was affected and she was in a debt management plan.
Mr Lender says it is not obliged to investigate complaints about events that happened over 
six years  prior to the complaint. So it says it wont consider loan 1 for that reason. Mr Lender 
says there  was nothing  in the checks it carried out that indicated  loan 2 was unaffordable.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He first explained  that Mrs W 
would still have complained in time about loan 1 if she complained within  three years of 
when she knew, or she should really  have known, she had reason to. He went  on to say he 
hadnt seen anything to suggest that Mrs W knew, or she should  really have known, she had 
reason to complain. So he looked at Mrs Ws complaint about both of her loans. He said that 
by loan 2, Mrs W had shown signs shed struggled  to repay  her first loan, so he found  there  
was a significant risk shed have been unable to sustainably repay loan 2. Our adjudicator 
recommended that interest and charges (plus 8% statutory  interest) should be refunded  on 
loan 2 and that associated negative  information should be removed from her credit file.
Mr Lender responded  to say, in summary, that two loans in a row is not enough to suggest 
Mrs W could not sustainably  repay her second  loan. It adds that this service  did not uphold a 
similar complaint where  the repayment  as a percentage of income  was similar.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mrs W and to Mr Lender on 29 January 2020.  I summarise 
my findings  here:
I found there was nothing in the available information to suggest loan 1 was 
unaffordable at the point  of application;
By the time Mrs W had rolled over loan 1 three times, shed paid almost  as much in 
interest as the initial loan and I considered this should have indicated  to Mr Lender 
that she may be struggling to manage her money;
Good  industry  practice at the time pointed  to three rollovers being the maximum 
borrowers should be allowed  given the link between rollovers and financial 
difficulties, so I found that it was irresponsible for Mr Lender to have allowed Mrs W 
to roll over her loan again after 28 March 2013;
I also found Mrs Ws repayment history on loan 1 should have been enough for 
Mr Lender to decline her second loan application;
I was satisfied this indicated Mrs W was already having trouble managing her money 
and should not have  been approved for a higher  loan just three  weeks  later.
Ref: DRN88775052So, my provisional decision was that Mrs Ws complaint about loan 2, as well as the fourth 
and fifth rollovers of loan 1, should  be upheld.
Mrs W accepted my provisional decision.
Mr Lender did not respond  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs W accepted my provisional decision,  and neither  party provided any additional  
information, I see no reason to depart  from it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.  PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  
should:
Refund interest and charges Mrs W paid on loan 2, plus rollovers  4 and 5 of loan 1;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about the above loans from Mrs Ws credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8877505