K820x#14complaint
Miss R says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI) with borrowing she took 
out at a well-known  retail  store  in 2001. Miss R was buying some  electronic equipment  at the 
time. The account was branded with the name  of a major retailer and the credit facility  was 
provided by a high street  bank. But a company  called Financial Insurance Company Limited  
is responsible for answering Miss Rs complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
The PPI was taken  out in the shop and added  after Miss R signed a loan application form, 
most probably at the counter. Miss R says she doesnt recall agreeing  to it or having the PPI 
explained. She says he didnt  want this type of cover.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Miss R disagreed  and so its been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.
I certainly dont doubt Miss R now genuinely believes she was mis-sold this cover. However, 
I was sent the agreement  she signed when she took out the PPI and I can see there was a 
section on this about PPI. The PPI box said ONLY  SIGN HERE IF YOU WANT COVER. 
Miss R signed in this box and also signed elsewhere  on the form, to agree to the credit 
terms. 
So I think this shows she agreed  to the PPI when she applied for the credit.  
FICL provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough  clear  
information for Miss R to decide herself  whether she wanted the cover. It didnt need to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for her.
I think FICL  could have set out the information  about the PPI on the leaflet in a better  way. 
But I can see the monthly premium of £1.44 was set out on the form and overall  I do think 
Miss R had access to enough  information  to allow her to make  an informed decision. 
Miss R told us she had some sickness protection already  with her job, implying  she didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Miss R says she enjoyed. But these dont  necessarily  mean  the PPI wasnt of use. 
Ref: DRN83072992This is because the decision  about  the PPI was for Miss R to make. Ive also checked that 
Miss R was eligible  for the cover and not caught  by any of the major  exclusions we tended 
to see in some of these  policies. If shed become unable to work  or lost her job, the PPI 
wouldve helped pay off her credit balance each month until she returned to work or until all 
the balance was returned to zero and these benefits  wouldve been in addition  to any other 
means Miss R had in place at the time.
So although  I cant say why Miss R decided to agree  to this cover when she applied for the 
credit, I think the PPI policy  was something  that would have been of use to her. 
For me to uphold Miss Rs complaint, Id need  to think it was more likely that she wasnt 
given an option  or there were other serious  flaws  in the way the policy  was sold. But the sale 
was a long time ago now and I simply dont have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen 
makes me think Miss R agreed to the PPI and probably had access  nearby to the 
information she needed about the PPI policy and its rules. I dont think  theres evidence that 
any better  or more   information wouldve changed how Miss R would have acted. 
I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint and I dont require 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required  to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8307299