K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) declined his home emergency claim 
and about its poor service.
background
Mr P has home insurance with a well-known brand, which  Ill refer to as S. There  are 
separate policies  giving buildings, contents and home emergency cover.  The home 
emergency cover insurer  is IPA.
Mr Ps boiler was being serviced by a private  engineer. During the service  the engineer 
discovered a gas leak which  was traced to the gas pipe to the cooker. Mr P says the pipe 
runs from the meter under his kitchen floor to the cooker.
The engineer disconnected the gas pipe and fitted a blank to the main  line. He tested the 
system and there was no longer  a gas leak. Mr P had hot water and central  heating  but the 
cooker couldnt work.
Mr P contacted S to ask if he was covered  by his insurance. S told him he was and gave a 
claim reference number.  IPAs engineers told Mr P they wouldnt attend his home until after 
the National Grid engineer had been.  Mr P contacted the National Grid who said they didnt 
need to attend as the leak had been  capped.  Mr P phoned S and was told he no longer had 
a home  emergency  so wasnt covered  by that policy and he should  contact  the contents 
cover department.
Mr P says when he phoned  the contents  cover  department he was passed around  various  
departments in different businesses from 9am to 10.55am. Eventually the home  emergency  
department told him he wasnt  covered.
Mr Ps private engineer  replaced  and rerouted  the gas pipe supplying gas to the cooker.  He 
paid £350 for the work.
Mr P complained. IPA said his claim wasnt covered under the home emergency cover as 
the policy excluded  any repair  or replacement of domestic appliances.
Mr P complained to us. He says his claim  should  be covered and he wants  the £350 
refunded. Hes also very unhappy with the way S and/or IPA handled the situation, passing 
his call around departments and changing its mind about cover.
Our investigator thought IPA had fairly declined the claim  under the home emergency cover.
Mr P wants  an ombudsmans  decision.  He said S told him he was covered but S didnt say 
whether it was under buildings, contents or home emergency cover. He queried  why our 
investigator had only looked at the home emergency policy. Also, during the calls with 
different departments he was told he could replace his cooker and he had to keep explaining 
the problem was with the gas pipe supply, not the cooker. He said given his and his wifes 
age and her recent ill health having  a working  cooker was essential to them.
Ref: DRN86380502my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to uphold the complaint about the claim 
under the home emergency cover  against  IPA. I said:
Mr P has raised various issues  and those issues are about different businesses.  The home 
insurance he has through S contains different policies giving building, contents  and home  
emergency cover. Each policy is insured by a different insurer.
When Mr P phoned S it must have passed  his call through  to the home  emergency  
department, IPA, which is why IPAs  contracted engineer called Mr P. IPA replied to Mr Ps 
complaint to explain why it declined his claim.
My decision  is just about whether IPA fairly and reasonably declined the claim under the 
home emergency policy. I havent see the policies for the building and contents and if Mr P 
thinks he should be covered under those policies hell need  to complain to the relevant 
insurers first before we can look at his complaints against them.
Mr P will need  to make a separate complaint against  S about his concerns on how it handled  
the matter.
I uphold the complaint about the claim under  the home emergency cover against  IPA. Ill 
explain why.
The home emergency policy gives cover for internal domestic gas supply and says:
You covered are for the following
Any suspected gas leaks should be reported  immediately to the National Gas Emergency 
Service... Following attendance  by the National Gas Emergency  Service, a home emergency 
as a result  of damage to the internal  domestic  gas supply pipe between the meter and the 
gas appliance, which resulted in the reported  leak.
The policy defines  a home emergency  as:
An event that happens suddenly and unexpectedly and needs immediate action to:
a) prevent damage or further damage  to your home;
and/or
b) make your home safe, secure and habitable.
The policy doesnt  define habitable so its reasonable for me to consider  the ordinary 
meaning of the word   suitable  or good enough  to live in.
I think Mr P and his wife not having cooking facilities, particularly given their age and her ill 
health, means their home was uninhabitable.
So there was cover  as Mr Ps home  was uninhabitable due to a sudden and unexpected 
internal domestic  gas supply problem that needed  immediate  action.
IPA said it declined the claim as the policy excludes any repair or replacement  of domestic 
appliances. But the cooker didnt  need repairing or replacing. The gas pipe to the cooker 
Ref: DRN86380503needed repairing/replacing  to prevent  another gas leak. So IPA couldnt fairly  rely on the 
exclusion it gave.
I note the internal domestic gas supply section  of the policy  has an exclusion for any claim 
relating to a leak from the appliance itself.  But theres  no evidence the leak came from the 
cooker. It was the gas pipe off the meter  that was leaking.
IPA didnt act fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Ps claim. He paid a private  engineer 
£350 to do work that should  have  been  covered by the policy. IPA needs to refund Mr P 
£350 once Mr P has sent it an invoice or receipt  to prove he paid that cost. IPA must  also 
add interest as detailed below.
Mr P and his wife were  left without cooking  facilities for a week  which  was inconvenient and 
frustrating to them, particularly in their personal  circumstances.  I think  its more likely  than 
not that IPAs  engineers would have  been  able to do the repair quicker,  particularly as Mr Ps 
wifes very poor health would have likely  made them priority customers.  IPA should pay Mr P 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience  it caused.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr P and IPA accepted  my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr P and AXA have accepted  my provisional decision Ive no reason to change  my 
mind. For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I uphold  this 
complaint.
IPA must pay Mr P £350 for the private  engineers  repair costs (once Mr P has sent it an 
invoice or receipt  to prove  he paid that cost), plus interest as Ive detailed  below.  IPA must 
also pay Mr P £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN86380504my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Inter Partner Assistance  SA to pay Mr P:
£350 for the private engineers repair costs (once Mr P has sent it an invoice or 
receipt to prove he paid that cost). Interest must be added  at 8% simple a year from 
the date Mr P made the payment to the date of settlement,  and
£150 compensation for his distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
* If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
take off income  tax from that interest  it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8638050