K820x#14complaint
Mr F had a motor insurance  policy with esure  Insurance  Limited. He is unhappy with the 
service it has provided. 
background
Mr F incorrectly received two refunds of £450 in relation to his policy excess. Because  of this 
esure asked  Mr F to repay £450  as it had been incorrectly  credited. Mr F agreed to pay £50 
per month, until the balance had been settled.  Mr F has said esure told him to use esure 
insurance as the reference number. So he did so and began  making  the payments. 
Mr F says he received letters from esure in December. These stated  he hadnt been  making  
the payments.  He also said esure  threatened him with debt reinforcement  if he didnt pay 
urgently. Mr F said he was sure he had paid but to stop further harassment he made further  
payments. But he later checked  his statements to find out he was right and had made  these 
payments. So he raised  a complaint with esure.
Originally esure thought Mr F had paid £250.  Leaving a balance  of £200 remaining. And as 
they were unable to trace  the payments, they agreed to waive  the remaining £200 Mr F 
owed.  However, Mr F revisited  the payments he had made and confirmed  that he had 
actually paid £400. So, esure  agreed  to waive the remaining £50 that was owed. But Mr F 
remained unhappy. He said because he was originally offered £200. Esure  asked what  
compensation Mr F felt was necessary to resolve  the matter. When  he said £1,000 esure  
said no and again  offered  to waive the remaining £50.
Mr F remained unhappy so esure  agreed  to offer a further £150 for the trouble and upset it 
had caused, and for the time Mr F had had spent  trying  to resolve the matter.  But esure 
refunded this amount to Mr Fs mothers account  accidently as it had previously refunded 
money to that account. But at that time Mr F said he was told esure would only keep the 
information for 30 days. So, they shouldnt have had access  to this information.  Secondly, 
when he asked which card the money  had been sent to esure refused to tell him. Eventually 
they sent the last 4 digits of the card associated with the account  it had refunded  the money 
to. Mr F feels this is a breach of data protection. Eventually esure sent a further £150 via 
cheque to Mr Fs.
Mr F remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service. Our adjudicator looked 
into the matter, but she didnt  recommend  that it be upheld. To summarise she said that 
while she appreciated the time Mr F had spent  trying to resolve the issue, she felt esure  had 
done enough by waiving  the remaining balance and paying Mr F £150 for the trouble and 
upset it had caused.  She also explained that if Mr F remained unhappy with esures data 
protection policy he could contact the information  Commissioners office.
 
Mr F remained unhappy. He didnt think the investigator had addressed  all of his points and 
he felt he should  receive more  compensation in particular compensation for each service 
failing. He was also unhappy that the investigator  had said he had received  a total of £300 
trouble and upset  when  in fact he only received £150. Because of this he asked  for his 
complaint to be passed to me to consider.
Ref: DRN89303282my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators findings  for broadly the same  reasons.  I will be explaining  why. 
However, before I do so, I would like to set out that the Financial  Ombudsman  Service isnt 
the regulator of the financial industry  thats the Financial  Conduct Authority. Therefore, we 
dont fine and punish businesses. Our role is to assess  whether a business (in this case  
esure) has acted fairly  and reasonably, or to see if its taken reasonable steps  to put things 
right where things have  gone wrong.
I understand that Mr F has raised  a several  points. And as I have stated above, Ive read and 
considered everything  hes said. But Ive not commented on everything  hes said, as Ive
focussed on what I think are the key points and central to his complaint.  
Esure has accepted  that it made an error  sending  letters to Mr F stating  he hadnt made 
payments to reduce the debt. And while I understand  that this error  would have caused  Mr F 
a degree of distress, it doesnt take away from the fact there was still a debt outstanding.  So, 
while esure originally  agreed  to waive £200  from the outstanding debt (this was on the basis  
Mr F had said he had only paid £250 towards  the debt) it wasnt obliged to do so. Therefore, 
after Mr F had confirmed  that he had actually repaid £400 towards the debt (so the balance  
remaining was £50) I dont think it was unreasonable for esure  to say it was only waiving the 
balance remaining. I say this because esures  offer was to waive  the outstanding amount not 
to refund part of the excess fee to Mr F.
Esure has said it would have taken  time to look into the payments Mr F had made in order  to 
resolve the matter.  Thats why it offered  to waive the balance.  But in order  for Mr F to ensure 
he provided accurate  information to esure about  the outstanding balance,  he had to 
manually check the payments he had made.  So, its fair to say this would have caused Mr F 
a degree of inconvenience.  And this was compounded by the fact that when the payment 
was actually made, it was sent to Mr Fs mothers account. I appreciate  that previous 
payments had been made to this account and the card was registered  to the account. But 
given the card would  have  been registered  in Mr Fs mothers name,  I feel esure could  have 
checked prior to issuing  the compensation. 
However, when looking  at the overall  inconvenience that has been cause to Mr F (taking into 
consideration that that there will always be some level of trouble and upset when pursuing a 
complaint) I think the offer esure  has made is fair and reasonable. It has waived the 
remaining balance Mr F owed, sent him £150 for trouble and upset it caused and also sent 
compensation to Mr Fs mother. In total Mr F received £200 and I think  this is reflective of the 
trouble and upset  he experienced.  
So with this in mind I wont be asking esure to do anything further. I appreciate  this wasnt 
the outcome Mr F was hoping for. But I hope my reasoning  explains why I have reached the 
decision I have.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Ref: DRN89303283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr F to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 10 February 2020.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8930328