K820x#14complaint
Ms H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 5 April 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  had not been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
5 May 2019.  But neither side sent me anything new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  sent me any new evidence or arguments to consider. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I do not think  this 
PPI policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  Ms Hs 
complaint about  Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85825002COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms H says she was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy. Financial Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, have taken  responsibility for the sale.  To keep things simple,  
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Ms H bought the policy in 2002, at the same time as taking out a store  card by filling out an 
application form in a shop.  It covered her card repayments  in case she was off work sick or lost her 
job.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms Hs store  card application briefly explained what PPI was for and what it cost. Then it had a place 
Ms H could sign if she wanted to buy the policy, or which  could be left blank if she didnt  want it. Ms H 
signed specifically  to take out PPI, separately to signing the application  as a whole. So I think  that 
Ms H was made aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the 
time  though I can understand if she doesnt remember  doing so after so long.
FICL didnt give Ms H a personalised recommendation  about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check  
if it was right for her. They did have to give Ms H good enough information to decide  if the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Ms H about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
Ms H feels it wasnt,  and she may well be right.  The question, then, is whether  I think  better 
information was likely to have changed  her mind. Here, Ms H chose to take out the policy,  which 
suggests she wanted this type of cover. Ms H doesnt seem to have had any other cover  at all, such  
as work  benefits or savings, which left her at serious  risk of being  unable to make her store  card 
repayments if she was off work  sick or lost her job. So the PPI couldve really  been useful  for her in 
case something went wrong. And if Ms Hs circumstances changed, she could cancel the PPI at any 
time without a penalty.
Ms H says that at the time she had a medical condition, which might not have been covered.  FICL  
questioned how the condition  mightve  affected her ability  to work, and we asked her representatives, 
but they havent  given us any more  details. So, for instance, they havent told us when it was 
diagnosed or mentioned  her being away from work  for her condition, or said it affected her ability to 
work in any significant way. Its worth bearing  in mind that the PPI was there to cover extended time 
off work,  and I havent  been told anything that makes it seem likely  Ms Hs condition wouldve  caused 
that.
Ref: DRN85825003So based on the information  Ive got I cant fairly  and reasonably say that, at the time of sale, Ms H 
wouldve thought  it likely shed ever need  to claim  for her condition. Further,  she could have claimed  
for time off for other conditions, or if she lost her job. And based on what Ive received so far, it 
doesnt sound  like Ms H was significantly affected by any of the policys other exclusions or 
limitations. For instance,  while Ms H had been in her job less than six months,  she was still covered if 
there hadnt been a significant gap between that job and the previous one, and she hasnt told us 
about any such gap. So it still seems like the policy couldve been useful for Ms H in her 
circumstances. And so I dont currently think that better information was likely to have put her off 
taking out the policy.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Please could  Ms H and FICL send me any more  information or comments  to look at by 5 May 2019. 
After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8582500