K822xComplaint
Mr W is unhappy with the response of Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi), following a claim 
against it under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  (the Act).
Background 
Mr W was contacted by a company, which Ill refer to as F, that supplied and installed solar  
panel systems. Following  a meeting  at his home, Mr W agreed  to enter into a contract  with F 
for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing £5,500. To fund this, he also agreed 
to enter  into a 10 year fixed  sum loan agreement with Hitachi.
Mr W has said that F didnt provide  him with the necessary information for him to complete 
his feed-in-tariff (FIT) application.  As a result  of this, he wasnt in receipt of his FIT income  
for around  a year after the installation. When his application was finally  submitted, the rate 
he was be paid for every kWh produced by his solar panels had significantly reduced.  
Therefore, Mr W said that F had breached  the contract it had with him. As F was no longer 
trading, Mr W, raised a claim under section 75 of the Act with Hitachi.
In its final response letter,  Hitachi made  an offer to resolve Mr Ws complaint. It said that 
although he had contacted F in March 2015  about his FIT application, he hadnt  followed this 
up until almost  12 months later before finally submitting his application in May 2016.  On that 
basis, without admission  of liability, it was willing to pay him the difference between  the rate 
in March 2016 and May 2016,  about  £26. Unhappy with this response, Mr W referred his 
complaint to our service. 
During our investigation Mr Ws roof was leaking.  Hitachi arranged for an independent 
inspection of the roof which highlighted that the installation had been  poorly  carried out, 
causing damage that had resulted in water ingress  into Mr Ws home. This had also,  in turn, 
caused internal  damage to Mr Ws home.  Hitachi have since arranged for the necessary 
repair work to be completed to make Mr Ws roof watertight.  It has also asked him to provide 
2 quotes for carrying out the internal decoration.
Mr W also told our investigator that F had told him that his solar panel  system would be self-
funded and that his monthly loan repayments  would  be more than off-set  by the FIT income 
and savings hed make on his energy bills. But this hadnt been  the case. Instead, his 
monthly loan repayments had been much higher.
Following information  provided by both Mr W and Hitachi,  our investigator issued her final 
view. She thought that F had misrepresented the benefits of the solar panel system  to Mr W 
and breached its contract. To put things  right she said that Hitachi  should work out the 
potential income  and savings to Mr W, from the solar  panel system, over the 10 year term of 
the loan. It should then recalculate his loan to ensure he paid no more than this. This would 
have the effect  of making his solar  panels  cost neutral.
The investigator also thought that for the 10 year period  after the loan term Hitachi should 
also pay Mr W the difference between the FIT rate he is currently  receiving and the rate he 
would have got if he had been provided  with the necessary information to complete his FIT 
application when  the panels  were installed.
She was satisfied that it was fair Hitachi  has made Mr Ws home watertight and that he 
should provide  it with two quotes  for the necessary internal  decorations. Due to the trouble 
and upset caused, she also thought that Hitachi should pay Mr W £300 to recognise this.
Ref: DRN85893042Mr W accepted the investigators view.  As Hitachi didnt the complaint has been passed  to 
me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good  industry  at the relevant  
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 and section  75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services  bought  using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr W paid for the solar panels with a fixed sum loan agreement, Hitachi agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction.  This means  that Mr W could claim against  Hitachi   
the creditor  for any breach of contract  by F in the same way he could have claimed  against  
F, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when  deciding  what is fair and 
reasonable.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr W and 
F, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by F as an agent of Hitachi.
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must  decide on the balance  of probabilities  
that is, what I consider  to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mr W has said that he was contacted by F and at a sales meeting told that the solar panel 
system would be entirely self-financing. I havent seen anything to show that Mr W had 
previously enquired about solar panels  before he was contacted by F. It is hard to see why 
he would  have agreed to the installation, paid for by a loan, which  would increase his 
monthly outgoings. And based on this, I think its unlikely that he wouldve agreed to the 
solar panel  system and a loan with Hitachi, unless  he had been led to believe that the 
system would be self-funding and come at no cost to him.
Having carefully considered the available evidence, like the investigator, I think  that F did 
misrepresent the benefits of the solar panel system. Hitachi  has accepted the investigators  
view on the misrepresentation of the benefits  of the solar panel system.  
Ill consider below whether its offer, to make the solar panels  cost neutral over the term of 
the loan, is fair.
Ref: DRN85893043The FIT application
Mr W has said that during the meeting with F at his home he was told that the FIT rate he 
would receive would be around  13p/kWh.  The salesperson told Mr W that the FIT rate would 
shortly be reducing so he needed  to make his application as soon as possible to guarantee 
the higher rate.
Mr W tried to compete his FIT application with his energy provider but, didnt have all the 
necessary information  required. He contacted F and provided  it with his partially completed 
form alongside a copy of his passport and driving licence so it could complete and submit  
the application on his behalf.  Mr W has provided  some emails to support this.
Hitachi has said that F offered to complete the FIT application form as a gesture of 
goodwill, and that Mr W didnt try to contact  F again  to chase this up for around 9 months  
until the day the rate was due to change.  It also said the onus was on Mr W to complete  the 
form and as FIT payments are made quarterly, he should have realised sooner that his 
system hadnt been registered.
Ive thought carefully on the points raised  by both Mr W and Hitachi.  Having considered the 
FIT application  form,  Ive noted that the questions Mr W was unable to answer  were  
technical questions  about his installation.  These  included questions around the Total  
Installed Capacity  (kW) of the system, his generation meter and a question around exported  
electricity. The FIT form also says:
These questions refer to your generation station on site. If you are unsure on any answers  
we recommend speaking to your installer  who should have all the necessary information.
Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr W to contact F for its help, as the 
application form suggests. And I also think  that F should have  provided  Mr W with all the 
information he would have needed  to complete  the form.
Ive also considered the emails that Mr W has provided between  himself and F. These  
include the email  where  he provided  the application form with what  he had completed  
alongside copies  of his passport and driving licence. I think  it is unlikely that Mr W would 
have provided  copies of his personal identification documents  unless he had been told that F 
would be making  the application for FIT on his behalf.
Ive also considered the delay between Mr W originally providing F with the necessary 
information and him following this up. My understanding is that the delay was due to a 
change in Mr Ws personal  circumstances  and I can understand why his FIT payments may 
not have been at the forefront of his mind until he saw that the FIT rates  were  changing  in 
January 2016.
Taking the above into account, Im of the view that the reason Mr W isnt receiving the FIT 
rate he should  have,  and that he didnt  receive any FIT payments for the first year of his 
installation, is due to Fs failure to complete and submit his application, as it said it would. 
Damage to his home
Mr W has said that the installation of the solar  panels caused damage to his roof and led to 
water ingress into his home causing damage to the internal decorations.
Ref: DRN85893044Hitachi has already  arranged for an inspection of Mr Ws roof which  has concluded the 
damage was caused by the poor installation of the solar  panels. As I understand, the repair  
work has already  been completed  and Mr Ws roof is now watertight.  I consider this to be 
fair.
Hitachi has also agreed to pay the costs of carrying out the repairs to the internal 
decorations. It has asked Mr W to provide two quotes for necessary  work. Again, Im 
satisfied that this is fair.
Fair compensation
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
Hitachi has offered to restructure Mr Ws loan so that his loan repayments match  the 
expected benefits he is due to receive  from his solar panel system.  This would make his 
system cost neutral and allow him to retain  the system. I think  this is a fair outcome as it puts 
Mr W in a position where his solar  panel system is self-funding over the original term of the 
loan. By allowing Mr W to keep the panels,  Im satisfied that he will likely  benefit from lower 
electricity bills and FIT payments going  forward (i.e. after the loan term has finished). 
When it calculates the expected benefits  Mr W is due to receive Hitachi  should take account 
that Mr W wasnt in receipt of FIT payments for the first year due to the delay in the 
registration of his panels.
By making  the solar panel system  self-funding its likely that Mr W will have been paying 
more each month than he should  have been. Hitachi should  add 8% simple interest to any 
overpayment made  and allow Mr W to choose  from the below four options of how hed like 
his overpayments  to be used:
1.the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding 
balance of the loan and he continues  to pay his current monthly loan repayment 
resulting in the loan finishing early,
2.the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding 
balance of the loan and he pays a new, lower monthly loan repayment until the end 
of the loan term,
3.the overpayments and associated interest are returned to Mr W and he continues to 
pay his current monthly loan repayment  resulting in the loan finishing early,
4.the overpayments and associated interest are returned to Mr W and he pays  a new, 
lower monthly loan repayment until the end of the loan term,
 
Im satisfied that is was due to a failure by F, to submit Mr Ws FIT application, that he is 
receiving a lower FIT rate. When calculating the benefits he is likely  to receive over the loan 
term to make his system  cost neutral Im of the view that Hitachi  should use the FIT rate he 
was registered  for. This will ensure his loan repayments are met by the benefits he is due to 
receive.
Ref: DRN85893045Im also of the view that Hitachi should compensate Mr W for the consequential loss that 
flows from Fs failure to register his panels  for the FIT rate applicable at the time his panels 
were installed. Therefore,  Hitachi should  calculate the difference between the FIT rate Mr W 
is receiving and what he should have been receiving if his system  had been  registered when 
it was installed as a lump sum. This calculation should be for the period after the term of the 
loan i.e. for the remaining  10 year period he is due to be receiving FIT payments.
I have no doubt  that what  has happened  has caused  Mr W trouble and upset. His home  has 
been damaged,  and he has had to carry out remedial repair  work. Consequently,  Ill make an 
award of £300  to reflect this. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Ws complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I require 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to:
allow Mr W to keep the solar  panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr W from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. This should take into 
account that he wasnt in receipt of FIT payments  for the first year. Where possible, it 
should use Mr Ws electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to the date of settlement,
allow Mr W to decide how his overpayments  should be used, using the four options 
described above,
pay for the necessary repair work to the internal decorations on receipt  of two quotes,
pay Mr W a lump sum to reflect the difference  between the FIT rate he is in receipt of 
and what he should have been  receiving  for the remaining life of the panels after the 
loan term; and,
pay Mr W £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2021.
*If Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off and also give him a 
certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax back  from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8589304