K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which 
Mr S says National  Westminster Bank  Plc mis-sold to him in 1997. 
Ill refer to NatWest throughout  this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this complaint  and recommended that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
These events are from some  considerable time ago. So its not particularly  surprising that 
Mr Ss memory of events  might not be completely right.  And I dont doubt Mr S now 
honestly and genuinely believes the MPPI  policy was mis-sold to him.
However, Im afraid Ive seen quite a few things that make me think  Mr Ss recollections 
probably arent consistent. In part, this may be due to some  incorrect information  NatWest 
gave him about  the start date of the MPPI.
I note in his original letter to NatWest for example, that Mr S says he was surprised to find 
he even had any MPPI as he has no recollection of such a policy being agreed to. But in 
the questionnaire  for our service he was asked to complete, he says although he cant  
remember much about the sale, he may have been told the MPPI  was compulsory with his 
mortgage. He specifically says in the questionnaire that hed probably been led to believe 
his status as a self-employed  person was the reason NatWest told him he needed to buy 
the policy.
Given the confusion  about the dates, Ive therefore thought very carefully about all these 
possibilities. In doing so, I dont think Mr S is correct about being told he needed to buy the 
policy because the documentation from the sale shows Mr S was employed, not self-
employed. The name of his employer was recorded on the paperwork weve been sent, and 
he ticked a box on a form which said I am in paid employment at the time of the sale.
I can also see Mr S was given a Mortgage Offer  document. This said that hed selected 
MPPI with his new mortgage.  To me this tends to show he was given a choice and that it 
was something he wanted  to have, rather than it being something  he was forced into. Mr S 
clearly doesnt agree  with this, but this Offer is from the time of the sale and as its a very 
important document,  I feel sure its one Mr S would have  wanted to read carefully. The 
MPPI is set out prominently  on the Offer, placed as it is in the middle of the document.
Ref: DRN89283182Finally, I also note Mr S completed a direct debit instruction  to pay the monthly MPPI 
premium from his bank account. It says clearly at the top of this: MORTGAGE 
REPAYMENTS PROTECTOR  INSURANCE.
So all these  things show, quite strongly  in my view,  that Mr S asked for the cover  and would 
have known it had been set up on his mortgage. After over 21 years, I accept he may not 
remember this now.
Businesses that recommended MPPI as part of an advised  sale had a responsibility  to 
ensure it was right for the consumers particular circumstances.  Non-advised sales  meant  
the seller only had to ensure the information provided was clear enough for the consumers  
themselves to make a decision about  whether or not they wanted MPPI.
Using what I know about how NatWest  generally sold mortgages  at the time, I dont think 
NatWest provided an advised sale. But I dont think the type of sale matters much  to this 
case either, because I think the policy was suitable anyway.
I say this as Mr S was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major  exclusions 
we sometimes see in these types  of policy. The cost of the policy was £14 per month, which 
seems affordable for him. Ive carefully  considered what  I think Mr Ss sickness  and other 
benefits might have been with his (employed) job and I agree they were probably quite 
generous. But they dont  necessarily mean  the MPPI wasnt of use.
This is because I think Mr Ss mortgage would have been an important and a long-term 
financial commitment and importantly, one which was secured against his home.  I think  the 
consequences of not being  able to keep up payments  if his income  suddenly  dropped,  
could have been serious. The MPPI on the other  hand, was there to help in times  of 
financial uncertainty and to provide  support in the event of him not being able to work or 
losing his job. It wouldve  paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  in the event of a 
successful claim  and this wouldve been  in addition  to any other means he had in place. 
I think these things show the MPPI was suitable  in his situation. 
NatWest also needed to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. I cant 
say that NatWest did everything right,  but I note Mr S was also given a schedule.  This and 
some of the other  documents Ive described above  show me that disclosure about the cost 
seems to have been comprehensive. I also think Mr S would have been  given  something  
explaining what and who the policy covered. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  
National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN89283183Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8928318