K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Ferratum  UK Ltd (trading  as Ferratum)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 5 payday loans Ferratum provided to Mr G between July 2018  and 
January 2019.  Details of the 5 loans  are as follows:
Loan Date started Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest repayment
1 07/07/2018 07/08/2018 1 300 379.20
2 09/08/2018 28/09/2018 1 300 386.40
3 11/10/2018 10/12/2018 1 250 264.00
4 31/12/2018 20/01/2019 1 250 284.00
5 24/01/2019 outstanding 3 400 214.74
Ferratum in its final response letter to Mr G, made an offer to settle the complaint. It offered 
to repay  interest  and charges  on all 5 loans  and said it would look to use that to repay the 
amount that Mr G had left outstanding on loan 5. This would leave a small balance for Mr G 
to repay.  Mr G did not accept Ferratums  offer and made a complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint in part and thought loan 5 shouldnt have been 
given. Ferratum agreed with our adjudicators  assessment and offered to repay the interest  
and charges for loan 5. Mr G disagreed with our adjudicators assessment and said the 
recommendations were  worse than Ferratums original offer.  So as Mr G and Ferratum still 
cannot agree, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman,  to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN86382792the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate  Ferratum needed to do more 
when it approved loans 1-4. This was early on in the lending  relationship between  the two 
parties. The repayments for the 4 loans  also would have seemed affordable based on what 
Mr G had told Ferratum. So I dont think at this stage, Ferratum was wrong  to give these 
loans to Mr G.  
However as our adjudicator explained, by loan 5 the pattern of Mr Gs borrowing showed  
that he was showing  signs that he was struggling to repay his borrowing:  
Loan four was for £400. This amount was more  than the first loan Mr G took out with 
Ferratum and the amounts he was borrowing were not decreasing.
When he requested loan 5 Mr G asked for this loan to be over a longer time than his 
previous loans, taking  it out over 3 months rather than 1 increasing the time that he 
would be making repayments to Ferratum.
Mr G was borrowing again  shortly  after he repaid  a loan. He asked for loan 5, only 4 
days after he had repaid loan 4. This shows me that at this point, he was most likely 
unable to repay his previous loan without  taking out a new one and was borrowing again  
to fill a gap in his finances.  
I think when I consider all of these points together, it shows that there was a significant risk 
that Mr G would be unable to meet his repayments  for loan 5 because  he was showing  signs 
that he was struggling  to repay in a sustainable  way. So I think Ferratum was wrong  to 
approve loan 5 and it needs to put things right. 
Ref: DRN86382793In asking Ferratum  to put things right I need to first of all consider Mr Gs comments about its 
original offer.  
Mr G is unhappy that the adjudicators recommendations dont go as far as the original  offer 
Ferratum made in its final response letter to him. He has also said to our service that he is 
unwilling to repay  the outstanding balance of the loan and that Ferratum shouldnt  be 
allowed to remove its original offer.
I have thought about Mr Gs comments and I acknowledge what  he has said.  Ferratum made 
an offer in its final response letter from 3rd May 2019  to repay interest  and charges for all 5 
loans. But Mr G did not accept that offer and instead  chose  to bring his complaint to our 
service. Our service  has recently contacted Ferratum who have  confirmed that this offer was 
then removed. I think as Mr G didnt accept Ferratums offer, it is not unreasonable  of it to 
decide to remove  the offer at that point. 
Mr G has also said he is unwilling to repay  the loan. Once Ferratum  puts things right as I 
have described  below, there will be a balance left outstanding. This is because  Mr G hasnt  
made any repayments on loan 5 and so there will still be some capital amount left to repay   
the capital amount being what Mr G was given and has had use of. So he will need  to repay 
this back. But I would  ask Ferratum to treat Mr G fairly and sympathetically when they look to 
discuss repaying this amount. 
putting things right  what Ferratum needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loan 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Mr Gs credit file
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest.  Ferratum must give Mr 
G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ferratum  UK Ltd 
(trading as Ferratum) should  pay Mr G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020. 
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8638279