K821x#15complaint
Ms M says Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma) was irresponsible to lend 
her money.
Ms M wants Satsuma to refund the interest and charges that she paid on the loans and she 
wants it to amend her credit file.
background
Ms M took out five instalment loans with Satsuma  between January 2015 and August 2016.
Ms M says that Satsuma shouldnt have agreed to lend as she was borrowing from a 
number of other short term lenders at the same time. Ms M says she was stuck in a cycle  of 
borrowing more money to try and keep up with her repayments. 
The adjudicator recommended that Ms Ms complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
didnt think that it was unreasonable of Satsuma to agree loans one to four. But she thought 
that Satsuma shouldnt have agreed loan five.
The adjudicator recommended that Satsuma refund the interest and charges that Ms M had 
paid on loan five. And she said it should  entirely  remove the loan from Ms Ms credit file.
Satsuma doesnt  agree with the adjudicators recommendation. It says that it carried  out 
individual affordability assessments  before  agreeing each loan. Satsuma doesnt think that 
the pattern  of sustained borrowing is, in itself, enough to indicate  that Ms M was persistently  
reliant on short term loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN86096262the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Tradings Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Satsuma has given  us evidence that it asked  Ms M for details of her income, housing costs,  
financial commitments  and other outgoings before  agreeing  to lend each time. As well as 
this, Satsuma has told us that it included safeguards to reflect  information  gathered  from 
credit searches.
loans one to four
I agree  with the adjudicator that Satsumas checks went far enough  before agreeing these 
four loans. Based on the information that Satsuma  held about Ms M, I cant say I was 
unreasonable to agree  to lend.
As Ms M hasnt  objected to the adjudicators  recommendation not to uphold her complaint 
about loans one to four, I dont consider I need to say much more  about them.  I will however 
take account of them  when considering loan five as they are part of the same chain of 
lending.
loan five
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history  with Ms M with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have given  Ms M any more  loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ms case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan five.
Ref: DRN86096263By loan five, Ms M had been borrowing  money from Satsuma for around 17 months.  The 
amount that she was borrowing had increased over time  from £150 for loan one to £600  
for loan five.  And Ms M took loan five out less than two weeks  after repaying loan four.
Ms M wasnt making  any real inroads  in to the amount  that she owed  Satsuma and ended  up 
making repayments in almost every month over the time she was borrowing. Ms M had paid 
large amounts of interest  to, in effect,  service  a debt to Satsuma over an extended period.
I consider that this pattern  of borrowing shouldve indicated to Satsuma that Ms M was 
having problems  managing her money and had become persistently reliant  on short term 
loans.
Although I appreciate what  Satsuma says about us not considering Ms Ms individual 
circumstances, Satsuma  will know (or should  know)  from previous decisions that this service 
considers there will be times  when  the pattern of lending alone is enough to indicate that a 
customer is experiencing financial difficulties or would  otherwise be harmed by further 
lending.
I think that Ms M lost out because Satsuma  lent loan five because:
it had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the extended period of time she owed Satsuma money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Ms Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
It follows that I consider  its fair to uphold Ms Ms complaint about loan five. 
I understand that Ms M still owes money  on loan five. As shes had the benefit of the money 
lent, it seems fair to allow  Satsuma to apply the refund against any outstanding principal 
balance. 
Just in case Satsuma  has sold the debt to a third party   Ive outlined  below  what  additional 
steps it should take.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Ms M paid on loan five;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan five; 
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to reduce  any outstanding  principal balance  due before 
paying the remaining refund (if there is any) to Ms M; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan five means  that any information about loan 
five is negative. So all entries about  loan five should be removed from Ms Ms credit  file.
Ref: DRN86096264If Satsuma has sold loan five to a third party,  it should buy the debt back in order  to deal with 
loan five. But if this isnt possible, Satsuma  should (in addition  to the above if necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;  
refund  any interest and charges  that Ms M has already paid to the third party,  plus 
8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
direct  the third party to remove any information  about loan five from Ms Ms credit file
If Satsuma doesnt  buy the debt back  from the third party  it wont be able to apply the refund 
against any outstanding principal balance  unless Ms M agrees to this.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Ms M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Satsuma  
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
**if after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding principal balance,  I remind  
Satsuma of its obligation to treat Ms M sympathetically and reasonably  in any repayment 
discussions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint in part and direct Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8609626