K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex), unfairly dealt with 
a claim he made under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
Background
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020  concluding that Mr Ss complaint should be 
upheld. I also set out what Amex should do to put things right.  I attach a redacted version of 
my provisional decision which forms part of this final decision.
I invited further comments  from both parties  before  I reconsidered the complaint for a final 
time. Mr S accepted my decision.  Amex did, in part. In summary it said:
Mr S had since changed his address with Amex  which suggested hed moved home 
and therefore  it would  be unable to arrange  for the removal of the system from his 
home.
It didnt think it reasonable for it to pay 8% simple interest from October  2007  to date 
of settlement as some  of the delays were caused  by Mr S and his representative.
It asked me to provide a limit on the time that Mr S had to provide it with any 
supporting information  to evidence the repairs he had made to the system.
Following Amexs response,  I wrote to both parties to explain that as Mr S no longer owed 
the property the system had been  installed, I wouldnt be asking  Amex  to arrange for its 
removal and make good any damage caused at no cost to him.
I felt it was fair for Amex to pay 8% simple interest  from October  2007  to date of settlement 
as an award of 8% simple  interest  isnt intended  to be punitive  or to punish a business. 
Rather, the interest  award  is to recognise  that a consumer, in this case Mr S, has been 
deprived of the money which may have influenced  a range of decisions about  his spending 
and borrowing over a period  of time.  Taking this into account I remained satisfied that Amex 
should pay 8% simple interest from October 2007 until the date of settlement. I remained of 
the view that this fairly compensates him for being  deprived of money that he spent on the 
solar hot water heating  system and its maintenance.
I also agreed that Mr S should supply any supporting information to evidence  any payments 
he had made to repair the system  within three months of accepting  the decision.
I explained that this meant I was minded, in full and final settlement, to require Amex  to:
refund  the full cost of the system  less £25 per year to cover the estimated he has 
received, taking into account  when he moved home,
refund  any transactions paid towards  the system on the credit card, with the interest  
refunded as well,
add 8% simple interest  to the above  from the date the payments were made to the 
date of the settlement,
reimburse any other payments Mr S can evidence he paid towards the purchase and 
installation of the system  together  with 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
the payment to the date of settlement,
Ref: DRN86694862subject to Mr S providing  supporting information within three  months of accepting  my 
final decision, to reimburse any payments has made to repair the system together 
with interest at 8% simple per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement; and,
pay Mr S £300 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
Both Amex  and Mr S accepted this.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  overall  conclusions as set out in my provisional  
decision. Following  the responses to the provisional  decision I have set out above,  and both 
parties have agreed, to what I require Amex  to do to put things right.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint against American Express  Services  Europe 
Limited.
In full and final settlement  of it, I require American Express  Services Europe Limited to:
refund  the full cost of the system  less £25 per year to cover the estimated he has 
received, taking into account  when he moved home,
refund  any transactions paid towards  the system on the credit card, with the interest  
refunded as well,
add 8% simple interest* to the above from the date the payments were  made  to the 
date of the settlement,
reimburse any other payments Mr S can evidence he paid towards the purchase and 
installation of the system  together  with 8% simple interest* per year from the date of 
the payment to the date of settlement,
subject to Mr S providing  supporting information within three  months of accepting  my 
final decision, to reimburse any payments has made to repair the system together 
with interest at 8% simple*  per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement; and,
pay Mr S £300 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Ref: DRN86694863Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If American Express Services Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr S how much  it has taken 
off. It should  also give Mr S a certificate  showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN86694864Provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains that American  Express Services  Europe Limited (Amex),  unfairly dealt with a claim  
he made under  section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act (CCA)  1974.
background
In October 2007 Mr S paid a deposit for a solar water heating  system installation using his Amex 
credit card to a company I will refer to as B. Mr S says that B promised the system would  make 
substantial savings on his energy bills and pay for itself over 10 years. However, this hasnt 
happened.
Mr S has also complained that he has had to replace the control  panel for the system a number  of 
times over the years,  whereas he had been  led to believe the system  required minimum  maintenance.
In August 2013, Mr S made a claim under section 75 (s75), via his representative. He said the 
promises made by B amounted to misrepresentations and that the system had breached the implied 
terms relating to the quality of goods and services. 
Amex responded in September 2013 saying  it didnt have enough information to consider  whether Mr 
S had a valid claim or not.
It also said that until adequate information was provided to address the claim  it considered the 
issuance of any claim or referral to FOS to be premature. It went on to say We must warn  you that, 
if proceedings are issued/a complaint to FOS is made before such information is provided, our client 
may apply to the Court  for an order for wasted costs as well as raise  this issue with FOS.  
That letter did not include  any details about how to refer a complaint to this service.
Further information was provided in December 2014 to Amex. 
Amex replied in January  2015 explaining that it would defend the claim made  under s75 and it now 
considered the matter to be out of time under sections 2 and 5 of the Limitation  Act 1980.  Again, there 
were no mention of how the consumer could refer any complaint to this service. 
Amex and Mr S continued to dispute the merits of the claim until in July 2015 Amex said it would 
object to this service considering the complaint if Mr S brought it here. Again, no referral rights were 
provided in this letter,  despite  Amex quoting our DISP rules and concluded the letter  by saying We 
do not intend to litigate in correspondence and consider this matter closed. Please note that we intend 
to defend  any claim/FOS  complaint on the basis that your client is out of time and will seek  our costs  
of doing so. 
Despite the lack of any letter that could  be considered to be a final response letter as set out in DISP 
1.6.2, Mr S, via his representative, referred a complaint to this service  in January 2016. 
Amex objected  to us considering  the complaint on the basis that it was brought outside the time limits  
set out in the rules which govern this service. It has also said that the Limitation Act 1980 means we 
cannot look at the merits of the claim.
A number  of opinions have been  issued  by investigators at this service. The investigator issuing the 
final opinion said that this complaint was within the scope of our jurisdiction because the issue 
complained about is Amexs handling of the s75 claim.  However, she concluded Amex  was 
reasonably entitled to rely upon the Limitation Act 1980 to defend the claim. She found Mr Ss 
misrepresentation and breach of contract claims were now both out of time under the Limitation Act. 
Mr Ss representative didnt  accept  the investigators findings  and provided  its reasons, including 
Counsels opinion to explain  why it was not fair for Amex to rely on the Limitation Act defence.  In 
summary it said:
Ref: DRN86694865Amex had acted unfairly by rejecting the complaint on the grounds that the s75 claim 
underpinning it was statute  barred  under the Limitation  Act, but the claim wasnt statute barred 
when it was initially made in August 2013.
The purpose of the DISP scheme is to provide  a quick and informal alternative to litigation. This 
purpose would be defeated if it were necessary  to issue a protective claim  prior to expiry of the 
limitation period whilst  the matter was within the DISP scheme. 
It would  be unfair to allow Amex to reject the claim  on the basis of limitation as Amex  had 
specifically asked  Mr S not to issue proceedings in its letter of 12 September 2013.
The claim  made by Mr S only became  statute barred during the course of the DISP process and 
Amex had intentionally  delayed in sending  a response to the complaint to support its position that 
the claim would be statute barred.
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Jurisdiction
Amex has not confirmed whether or not it accepts the investigators findings on this services 
jurisdiction. Therefore, I will begin by considering  whether Mr Ss complaint is one I am able to look 
into. If it is, I will then consider the merits of the complaint, which include whether  Amex has been 
reasonable in raising a limitation  defence. 
Our powers to consider  complaints are set out in the DISP chapter  of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the
Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a)six years after the event  complained of; or (if later)
(b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware  (or ought  reasonably to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; unless the complainant  referred the 
complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within that period and has a written 
acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure  to comply with the time limits was as a result  of 
exceptional circumstances.
Amex has said this service isnt able to consider  Mr Ss complaint  as it was made too late. It believes 
that Mr Ss complaint relates to the solar hot water heating system he was sold in 2007.  It therefore, 
has said that Mr S had until October 2013 to refer his complaint  to our service  and as he didnt do so 
until January  2016, I am unable to consider it.
Im not persuaded  by Amexs position. Although the complaint flows  from his issues about his solar 
water heating system, the complaint that has been referred  to this service is Amexs decision to 
decline his claim under  s75 of the CCA.
Amex issued  an initial  response to Mr S, about his s75 claim, in September  2013. And there  was 
further correspondence until July 2015 when Amex issued a further letter  setting out its position.
Ref: DRN86694866This means  that as a minimum  Mr S had six years from September  2013, so until September 2019,  to 
refer his complaint  to this service. And as I have explained above, he did so in January  2016. 
Therefore, I am satisfied  that Mr S has referred his complaint to this service within six years of the 
event complained of. This, for clarity, was Amexs decision to decline his claim under  s75.
The merits  of the claim
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive considered whether  Mr S made his s75 claim  in time and whether Amex  dealt with the claim fairly  
in relying on the limitation defence.  If I decide that Amex did not deal with the claim  fairly, I will then go 
on to consider the underlying s75 claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract and, if Amex dealt 
with the claim fairly. 
Relevant considerations
I am required to determine  this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  When  considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into 
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of 
practice; and, where  appropriate,  what  I consider to have  been good industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes s75 of the CCA, which provides protection for consumers for 
good or services bought using credit.  It states:
If the debtor  under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract,  he shall have  a like claim  against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and severally liable  to the debtor.
As Mr S paid part of the agreement  through his credit card,  Amex agrees  that s75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Mr S could  claim against Amex   the creditor   for any misrepresentation 
or breach  of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have claimed against the supplier. So, 
I have taken s75 into account when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
case.
The FCA principles apply to all authorised  firms including  Amex. Of particular relevance to this 
complaint is:
Principle 6
A firm must pay due regard to the interest of its customers and treat them  fairly
So, I have also considered whether Amex treated Mr S fairly in dealing with this s75 claim.
Was the claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract made in time?
Amex has said this service should not now consider whether it dealt with the s75 claim appropriately  
because that claim, whether for misrepresentation or breach of contract, is now outside  the time limits 
allowed for such actions to be brought in court as set out in the Limitation Act 1980.
For the reasons  Ive set out above, the complaint that we are dealing with (i.e. Amexs decision to 
decline his claim under  s75 of the CCA)  does fall within our jurisdiction. So, I need to determine  
whether Amex has acted fairly and reasonably  in raising  the Limitation Act to turn down that claim.
Ref: DRN86694867It is not in dispute that Mr S used his Amex  card to fund part of the purchase at the heart  of this 
dispute. And it is accepted that he has recourse under s75. Mr S has raised  claims for both 
misrepresentation and breach of contract.  A misrepresentation,  in this context, is an untrue statement 
of fact which induced Mr S to enter into the contract.  So, any misrepresentation as to the nature of the 
services provided under the agreement must occur at or before the time the agreement  is started. 
Whereas, a breach of contract  can occur at any time whilst  a contract is in force.
Under the Limitation Act 1980, if the claim  is against the supplier for misrepresentation,  it is an action 
founded in tort and so the time limit in s2 of the Limitation  Act 1980 applies.  The limitation period 
therefore expires  six years from the date on which  the cause of action accrues. The cause of action 
for misrepresentation will accrue when the actual damage has occurred which  will mean  measurable  
financial loss. 
Im of the view that Mr S initially  suffered damage when  he entered into the contract  to have the solar  
water heating system installed. I think this because Im of the opinion  that it is clear  the benefits of the 
solar hot water heating system i.e. reduced energy bills, were  misrepresented to Mr S. 
As a result, I consider that he suffered  actual damage on entering into the contract. Mr S purchased  
the solar hot water heating system on 13 October 2007 so this is when his cause of action for 
misrepresentation would accrue. This means that the six year limitation period under section 2 of the 
Limitation Act expired on or around 13 October 2013.
This would mean that although the limitation period  under section 2 expired before Mr S referred  his 
complaint to this service, it had not expired at the point that Mr S made his claim to Amex, or 
importantly at the point Amex responded to say it did not have enough information to consider the 
claim. 
I have also taken  account of the fact that Mr S may be able to rely on;
S32, in cases of fraudulent misrepresentation. 
S5, time limit for actions founded on simple contract (i.e. breach of contract).
It isnt clear to me if Mr S is making allegations of fraudulent misrepresentation on the facts of this 
case. A fraudulent  misrepresentation would  require the false representation about  the solar heating  
system to have been made by B knowingly without belief in its truth or recklessly.
However, even if I were  to find that the fraudulent misrepresentation extension  was applicable,  based 
on the particular circumstances here, it would not extend the limitation period  to the point the 
complaint was eventually referred to this service.  
The limitation  period for a breach of contract under s5 of the Limitation Act would  commence on the 
date on which the cause of action accrued. Our investigator found  that the latest point at which a 
breach of contract claim could arise was at the date B was dissolved  in July 2009. However, I 
consider that the breach of contract occurred at the point of installation  as the control switch was not 
of satisfactory quality at that point.
Based on this the breach  of contract claim  would also be outside the six year limitation period under  
the Limitation Act at the point his complaint was referred to this service but was within time at the 
point Mr S first complained  to Amex in August 2013. 
 
So, Mr S first made his claim to Amex under s75 in August 2013 and this was within  time as set out in 
the Limitation Act. But as set out in the September 2013 letter, Amex actively dissuaded  Mr S from 
raising a complaint with our service or issuing court  proceedings.
Ref: DRN86694868In August 2013, when the initial s75 claim was made, Mr S provided marketing literature, an expert 
report on the types  of solar hot water heating system that had been installed and a copy of a press 
release from the Office of Fair Trading in relation  to B.   
Although I accept that some  of the information was generic  in nature, I nevertheless  consider that 
Amex had sufficient  information to investigate and consider the claim. Certainly, it should  have 
provided a final response letter with details of our service and I do not think  it was fair and reasonable 
to actively dissuade  Mr S from raising  a complaint with us.
Having taken  account of the available evidence, on balance I do not think it was fair and reasonable  
for Amex  to rely on the Limitation Act to decline the s75 claim given the very particular  circumstances 
involved here. 
Summary
In summary, Im satisfied  that Mr Ss complaint is one that falls within the jurisdiction of this service. 
Mr S made his claim under s75 in August 2013, and this was before the time limit under the Limitation 
Act 1980 had expired in October  2013. 
Taking everything into account I provisionally conclude  that Amex  did not act fairly  when it rejected Mr 
Ss s75 claim on limitation grounds.
Was there a misrepresentation or breach of contract?
When Mr S made his original claim in August 2013, he said there were a number of written and oral 
misrepresentations that induced  him in to entering the contract. These included, but arent limited to, 
being told the system would significantly reduce his household bills, the system  would pay for itself in 
10 years and that it would be maintenance free.
Instead, Mr S has said there has been no significant savings made  on his household  bills, the system  
isnt paying for itself and there have been a number of issues with the control panel on the system 
which has meant  that it has needed to be replaced seven times between  2007 and 2014.
Mr S has been consistent  with his recollection  about what he was told and subject  to considering  
other information he was given at the time I have  no reason to doubt  his evidence.  
With that in mind, Ive considered the marketing  literature that was supplied when the initial claim was 
made in August 2013. This starts:
Dear Homeowner,
Install a Smart  Energy Solar System with central heating Optimisation and SLASH your household 
energy BILLS by up to 35%!
Whilst I accept that this doesnt guarantee the amount  of savings that can be achieved, as it says, up 
to, it does indicate that significant  savings can be made, and this is contrary  to what  Mr S says he 
has experienced. Importantly, this does not provide any evidence that would undermine Mr Ss 
account of what he says he was told, but rather supports  his version of events.  
The fact that the system installed did not SLASH Mr Ss household energy bills is further supported 
by the independent report which finds that given  Mr Ss particular circumstances  (i.e. two people living 
in the home), he could expect to save  about £25 a year. Even if four people lived in the house the 
expected savings would  only increase to about £44 per year. Taking  account of the available 
evidence it simply is not true to say that Mr Ss bills have  been SLASHED.  
Mr S paid £5,990 for the system and has said that the salesperson told him that the benefits  from the 
system would  mean that it would pay for itself over 10 years. But based on the available  evidence it 
Ref: DRN86694869would take over 200 years  for the system  to pay for itself. Im of the view that it was the 
misrepresentations made by the salesperson  for B, of the savings that could be made with the system  
and that it would pay for itself over 10 years, that induced Mr S to enter into the contract.
I now turn to the maintenance issues experienced by Mr S. He says that he was told that the system 
would require very little maintenance. This is supported by the independent report  I have mentioned 
above. This report says that there  is some periodic  maintenance  required which  averages out at 
between £70 - £150 p.a
The original contract to supply and install a solar water  heating system  was covered by the Supply of 
Goods and Services  Act (SGSA) 1982.  The SGSA  sets out that the goods must  be of satisfactory 
quality and services must be carried out with reasonable skill and care.
And within the contract that Mr S had with B for it to supply and install the solar water  heating system 
to his home, there is an implied  term that the trader, in this case  B, will supply  goods of satisfactory 
quality.
The control  panel that was installed with Mr Ss system was meant to give him further savings on his 
energy bills and he was told that it was compulsory  for use with his system. Therefore, in my view, the 
control panel formed a key part of the solar water heating system provided  and B had a responsibility 
to ensure that it was of satisfactory  quality.
I accept that there  would  have been  some ongoing maintenance  costs to the system  as explained  on 
the independent report. But Mr S has said that between  2007 and 2014 the control  panel has had to 
have been replaced seven times. I find that to have  a control panel replaced, on average, once a year 
to be excessive  for a system  that should be low maintenance and for a something that formed  a key 
part of the solar water  heating system. So, Im not satisfied that the goods supplied were of 
satisfactory quality and I would  consider this to be a breach of contract.
Mr S has also provided evidence  of the action taken by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) against B. 
The OFT investigated Bs conduct and intervened following consumer  complaints about  B.
In July 2009  the OFT released a press statement. It had established that B had breached consumer 
protection legislation including unsubstantiated claims that consumers would  recoup  their costs  
through savings and supplying  goods that werent  of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose.
I appreciate that what happened in respect of the complaints the OFT looked  into may not have 
necessarily happened in Mr Ss case. Whilst the OFT press  release findings  are general  and dont 
refer to Mr Ss case, they do suggest that there were  conduct concerns in the areas that relate to his 
complaint and at around the time he was sold the system.
Taking all the above into account, I consider the benefits  of Mr Ss solar water heating  system were  
misrepresented by B and that it breached  the contract by supplying goods that werent  of satisfactory 
quality.
Fair compensation
I consider that there  was a misrepresentation on the part of B and Mr S wouldnt  have entered into the 
contract with it and made a total payment of £5,990 but for this misrepresentation. I also consider that 
there has been a breach of contract as the system was not of satisfactory  quality when  installed. So, 
in assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr S in a 
position he wouldve been in but for the misrepresentation  by B and to pay compensation to remedy 
the breach of contract.
Ref: DRN866948610On that basis,  Im minded  to ask Amex to refund any payments Mr S has made towards  the system, 
together with interest  at 8% simple per annum from the date of payment  to the date of settlement.  I 
will allow  Amex to take account of the benefit that Mr S has received from the system when 
calculating fair compensation. For ease I consider  it fair to use the experts estimate of £25 per year. 
In relation to the breach of contract,  if Mr S can evidence any payments, he has made  to repair  the 
system then these should also be reimbursed together with interest and Mr S should  supply such 
information when he responds to my provisional decision.  
I also think  that the way Amex has dealt with the claim has caused Mr S trouble and upset. To 
recognise this, I think Amex should pay Mr S a sum of £300.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I should  receive  from either party 23 February 2020,  my 
provisional decision  is that this complaint should be upheld.
In full and final settlement  of it, Im minded to require American Express Services Europe Limited to:
(a)arrange for the system to be removed from Mr Ss property and make good any damage 
caused at no cost to him;
(b)refund the full cost of the system less £25 per year to cover the estimated benefits he has 
received;
(c)refund any transactions paid towards the system on the credit card, with the interest refunded 
as well;
(d)add 8%* simple  interest to the above  from the date the payments were made  to date of 
settlement;
(e)reimburse any other payments Mr S can evidence he paid towards the purchase and 
installation of the system  together with interest at 8% simple  per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
(f)subject  to Mr S providing supporting  information to reimburse any payments he has made to 
repair the system together with interest at 8% simple  per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;  and 
(g)pay Mr S £300 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
*If American  Express  Services Europe  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much it has taken off. It should also 
give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8669486