K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that MYJAR  Limited  was irresponsible when it provided a number of loans 
to her.
background
Miss C took seven loans  with MYJAR.  This table shows  some  of the information MYJAR has 
provided about Miss Cs loans. For ease of reference I've rounded the figures  involved.
loan no.date 
takenprincipal 
amountdate repaidterm  
(days)no. of 
instalmentshighest 
instalment
Loan 1 28/02/15 £100 20/03/15 20 1 £116
Loan 2 06/06/15 £300 19/07/15 44 1 £406
Loan 3 21/07/15 £500 20/08/15 91 3 £246
Loan 4 24/08/15 £975 20/11/15 88 3 £478
Loan 5 20/11/15 £825 20/01/16 91 3 £409
Loan 6 28/01/16 £1,475 18/03/16 172 6 £428
Loan 7 12/01/18 £1,500 outstanding 378 12 £236
The first six loans were taken between February  2015 and January 2016. There was a break 
of 22 months between Miss C repaying Loan  6 and taking Loan  7.  
The amounts borrowed  varied between £100 and £1,500 and the length of time varied. 
Earlier loans were payday loans  repayable  around  a month after they were taken. 
As the loans  increased in value so the terms over which they were taken also extended - 
Loan 6 was taken over six months and Loans 7 over 12 months. 
Miss C hasnt repaid  Loan 7 - a balance remains outstanding on that loan.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Cs complaint. He recommended  that Miss Cs 
complaint about  Loans 4, 5 and 6 should be upheld. As a result  MYJAR made an offer to 
refund the interest and charges Miss C had paid on those loans but it wanted to apply that 
refund against  the outstanding balance on Loan  7. 
Miss C disagreed with MYJARs calculations and thought she was being treated unfairly by 
MYJAR as regards Loan 7. So she asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint.
I recently considered  Miss Cs complaint afresh  and issued a provisional decision in which  I 
explained why I was minded to uphold her complaint  about Loan 7 as well as Loans 4, 5 and 
6. I invited the parties to let me have anything they wanted me to think about before I 
considered my final decision. Miss C and MYJAR have confirmed that they accept my 
provisional decision.   
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   This is what I said in my provisional decision:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all 
of the relevant rules,  guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ref: DRN85294772MYJAR provided these high-cost short-term  loans  in question  while it was authorised and 
regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA).
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all 
authorised firms are required  to comply with. These included PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which 
says: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them  fairly.
The Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)  sets out the rules and guidance which  apply 
to credit providers like MYJAR when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms  
obligations in relation  to responsible lending.   
Section 5.2.1R of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan saying:
(1) Before  making  a regulated credit  agreement the firm must undertake an 
assessment of the creditworthiness  of the customer.
And at Section 5.2.1(2) a lender had to consider:
(a)the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial  situation, taking into account the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is 
to be made; and
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make  repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC  5.2.4G(2) 
saying:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances 
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the 
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the 
customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contained further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind  when 
thinking about  affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) saying:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then added:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1) should  include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability  
to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(6)  clarified what is meant by sustainable:
 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments  under the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
Ref: DRN85294773(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer  should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet  the repayments;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets;  and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
CONC 5.3.1G (4) added  that if a firm does take account of income and expenditure in its 
credit worthiness assessment:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure  on a statement of those matters made  by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based on what the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment
Whilst CONC sets out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit  
providers have  to adhere to it represents a minimum standard for firms. And - as an 
ombudsman - Im also required to take into account any other guidance,  standards, 
relevant codes of practice, and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance, good industry  practice and law, I think  
there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  of Miss Cs complaint: 
Did MYJAR complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, would those  checks have shown that Miss C wouldve been able to do so?
Ive outlined above some  of the regulations  in place at the time MYJAR  provided the 
loans  to Miss C. In summary,  it had to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of whether  Miss C could  afford to repay them  in a sustainable way. 
The checks MYJAR did had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each 
individual loan.  And  what  is proportionate will depend on a number of factors including 
things like the consumers  financial history and current situation as well as things such as 
the amount, type,  cost of the credit being sought.
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an 
assessment of affordability is to be carried  out but the extent and scope and the types  
and sources  of information  to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess 
the sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. Its not an assessment 
of the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result 
of the decision to lend.
Ref: DRN85294774As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly  relates  to the particulars  of the 
lending and the circumstances of the consumer.  Therefore,  a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely  need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient  for one 
consumer might  not be for another, or indeed  what might be sufficient for a consumer  in 
one circumstance  might  not be so for the same consumer  in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer  of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might  point  to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);  
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So MYJAR  was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably  make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case. This is because  as I've set out above  CONC defines sustainable as 
being without undue difficulties  and in particular  the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
It follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able 
to make their repayments  without borrowing further.
So, although  Miss C may have repaid some of her loans early, it doesnt automatically 
follow that she managed  to repay  them in a sustainable  way. And the regulations  are 
quite clear that MYJAR needed to assess the whether  the credit it agreed was affordable 
in a sustainable manner. 
Loans 1, 2 and 3
Our adjudicator thought that Miss Cs complaint  about Loans 1, 2 and 3 shouldnt be 
upheld. And I agree. 
In the circumstances of Loan 1 I tend to think that MYJAR was proportionate in the 
checks it did. It was Miss Cs first loan and it was for a relatively small amount compared 
to her declared income.
There was a break of over two months before Miss C came back for Loan 2 but this was 
for a much  higher amount  - £300. And only two days after she repaid Loan 2 she asked 
for Loan 3  an even higher  amount to be repaid over 3 instalments at around £246  per 
Ref: DRN85294775month. So I think that MYJAR  shouldve had a much better understanding of her income 
and outgoings at this stage. But that doesnt mean it wouldve been proportionate to do a 
full financial review. 
So I've thought  about what  MYJAR did and Ive thought about what  it wouldve  found out 
had it done what I consider  proportionate.  And I'm not persuaded  that MYJAR wouldve 
been wrong  to provide  Loans 2 and 3 even if it had done what  I think wouldve been the 
right level of checks. 
So I'm not proposing to uphold Miss Cs complaint about Loans 1, 2 and 3.
Loans 4, 5 and 6
When Miss C took Loan  4 she had been borrowing from MYJAR for six months. But in 
recent months her borrowing had become much more frequent. So it meant that Loan 4 
was actually her third loan in less than three months. The amounts she was borrowing  
were also rapidly increasing  having started with a loan of £100,  she was now asking  to 
borrow £975.  The three instalments were to range from £460 to £478.  
On the day Miss C repaid  Loan  4 she took Loan 5: a slightly lower amount but again the 
three instalments were  all more than £400.
A week after Miss C repaid Loan 5 she took Loan 6. This time she borrowed £1,475.  And 
although she was now spreading the repayments over six months,  as the amount 
borrowed had increased so much, it meant that she was going  to have to repay  £382 
around three weeks after taking  the loan and thereafter  nearly £430 every month.
This history of increasing amounts being borrowed  over such a short period shouldve 
alerted MYJAR to do much more thorough checks. 
MYJAR has told us what checks it did and so far as I can see they didnt change the level 
even though Miss Cs indebtedness was increasing  and extending. I can see that it asked 
for details of her income and three  categories for her outgoings: her housing, her credit 
commitments and other. It then used credit reference  agency  data to  amongst other 
things - help it identify  a minimum income  standard which  it used in its affordability 
calculations. But I dont think it did enough so far as a detailed review of Miss Cs 
individual financial  situation was concerned. 
So far as I can see MYJAR didnt verify Miss Cs income or her expenses  for example  
by asking  to see payslips or bills. Whilst, what MYJAR  used to meets its obligation to do 
proportionate sustainability checks was a matter  for MYJAR, it had to do proportionate 
checks. And given this history, a full financial review was warranted here. I've had the 
opportunity to see some of Miss Cs bank statements and a credit report  to help me 
understand what MYJAR wouldve learnt had it done proportionate  checks.
Miss C had been in financial difficulties for several  years. I accept that when she took her 
earlier loans from MYJAR it may not have been propionate for MYJAR to have delved  
into her credit history  to any great depth. But by August 2015 that is what it shouldve 
done. It wouldve  seen  that Miss C had four defaults registered in 2013-2014. These were 
for a loan with a balance of over £6,800, a payday loan with a balance of over £1,100, a 
credit card with a balance of £1,999  and her current account with a balance of £1,100. 
I acknowledge that defaults in themselves  may not always mean that a borrower will have 
difficulties repaying the loan in question sustainably.  But such recent - and so many  - 
defaults were  an indicator  that in the recent  past, Miss C hadnt managed her money well.
But there were other  signs  that Miss Cs credit situation was very precarious. Throughout 
2014 and 2015 Miss C was borrowing from multiple other lenders.  She had high-cost  
Ref: DRN85294776revolving credit facilities in place, credit cards,  payday loans, high-cost  longer term loans, 
hire purchase agreements and mail-order accounts.  
From Miss Cs credit file and bank statements I can see that she had some older  credit 
arrangements for example  a hire purchase agreement which was being  repaid at around 
£364 per month.  And shed been up at her credit limit on one of her credit cards. But of 
particular note is that shortly before taking Loan 4 Miss C had taken  two loans  each of 
£1,000 from different  high-cost short-term lenders (Lenders K and L) which were  still 
outstanding when she asked  for Loan 4. And both of these loans had been taken  on the 
same day Miss C repaid  earlier loans  with those same lenders and they were for 
increased amounts:  a pattern very similar  to what she was doing  with MYJAR.  Had 
MYJAR done proportionate checks it wouldve seen this and realised  that Miss C was 
unlikely to be able to repay Loan  4 from sustainable means.  What she was doing  was 
repaying credit by taking further  credit   an unsustainable  position. 
Miss Cs credit situation continued to deteriorate  not surprisingly, more  and more 
quickly as the cycle, I've explained above,  continued. So whilst she had Loan 4 open she 
took further credit.  Some loans were repaid before she took Loan 5 but of note she took 
additional high-cost short-term loans including  one from Lender  K as well as Lenders J 
and H. She also borrowed  - in September 2015 - over £3,400  from Lender N - another  
high-cost lender. From what I can see she used the Loan 5 advance  to repay Lender L 
what shed previously  borrowed.
Shortly after Miss C took Loan 5 she borrowed £5,000  from Lender P  another  high-cost 
lender. And she took two further loans  from Lender J and H: all of these were  outstanding  
at the point  she took Loan 6. 
So I'm satisfied  that by the time Miss C applied for Loan 4 she was already in an 
unsustainable cycle  of borrowing to repay earlier  credit.  And her situation worsened as 
the months went on: this wouldve been apparent to MYJAR just by looking at how her 
borrowing had increased over such a short time  but had it done propionate checks and 
understood her credit  situation it wouldve  known  that further lending wasnt sustainable 
and as a responsible lender declined  to provide her with more loans. Instead MYJAR 
continued to advance much higher amounts  than shed  previously borrowed, over longer 
and longer periods.  I'm satisfied  that it wasnt responsible of MYJAR to do this. 
As a responsible lender MYJAR shouldve declined  Loans 4, 5 and 6. And Im currently 
minded to uphold Miss Cs complaint about  those  loans.
Loan 7
Our adjudicator thought that MYJAR had done proportionate  checks when it provided  
Loan 7. I disagree.
I accept that there  had been a break of around 22 months since Miss C had repaid  Loan 
6. But this loan was for the highest amount shed  ever borrowed and she was taking it 
over a 12 month period. Miss C was going to be tied in to repaying this loan at around 
£236 every  month  for the next year. And she was going to have to repay  over £2,800 in 
total. These factors in themselves shouldve led MYJAR to interrogate  Miss Cs financial 
situation in more detail to ensure that shed be able to sustainably repay Loan 7 
throughout the 12 month term as and when repayments fell due. 
Furthermore, I think the information MYJAR itself had, shouldve alerted it to check Miss 
Cs credit situation in more  depth. For example it assessed her monthly affordable 
amount at around £601   whereas for Loans 4, 5 and 6 it had assessed this to be at 
around £1,200. It also recognised that her creditor  repayments  had risen from £240 to 
£660. And, from what I can see, it seems that MYJARs  credit checks  showed  that Miss 
Ref: DRN85294777Cs total unsecured debts amounted to £24,690. All of this suggests that Miss Cs 
financial circumstances were  far from robust.
Had MYJAR checked Miss Cs credit history, it wouldve seen that during the break 
between Loans 6 and 7 she hadnt in fact improved her financial situation  in the 
intervening period: rather it had deteriorated  further.
Throughout 2016 and 2017  Miss C continued  to borrow from the high-cost short-term  
lenders I've mentioned above. And in 2017  shed taken some high value credit from other 
lenders  including a hire purchase  agreement for nearly £20,000  and a loan for over 
£10,000. I can also see that she borrowed £2,500 from high-cost lender,  Lender N, again  
 just two months before  she took Loan 7.
Additionally Miss C had opened two new credit  card accounts. One of these had been 
opened a month before Miss C took Loan 7. Shed been  provided with a credit limit of 
£200 and later that month her balance  reached £193.  
The other  credit  card account had been  opened in April 2017 and had started  with a 
credit limit of £3,500 which had increased to £4,500 and then in January  2018 it was 
increased to £5,500 after her balance  had risen  to £4,398 in December  2017.  I also note 
that in November  2017  Miss C took a cash advance on this credit card of £578.  In my 
experience  as this is an expensive form of credit - people who take cash  advances  from 
credit card accounts tend to be experiencing financial  difficulties.  
I dont think a responsible lender, which had done proportionate checks, wouldve 
concluded this loan was affordable sustainably  for Miss C. I think  such  a lender wouldve 
realised it was more likely  than not Miss C was having  to borrow further to cover  the holes 
repaying her previous loans and other credit were  leaving  in her finances. So I'm currently 
minded to uphold Miss Cs complaint about  Loan 7 too.
Ive mentioned above that both MYJAR and Miss C accept  my provisional  decision. In these 
circumstances I see no reason to change my provisional thinking and so I uphold  Miss Cs 
complaint about  Loans 4, 5, 6 and 7.
putting things right
MYJAR shouldnt have provided  Loans 4, 5, 6 and 7 to Miss C. As I've explained, MYJAR 
accepts my provisional decision. And it has shown me how it has calculated that a refund will 
be due to Miss C. I havent seen  a statement of account in this case  so I dont know  whether 
this calculation is correct  but if Miss C accepts this decision MYJAR should provide  her with 
a detailed explanation of how it calculates any refund due to her.  
And, for the sake of clarity, Im repeating below what I require MYJAR  to do to put things  right.
I understand that there may be a balance outstanding on Loan 7.  If MYJAR has sold the 
outstanding debt it should buy this back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. 
If MYJAR  is not able to buy the debt back then it should liaise  with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results  outlined  below.
Ref: DRN85294778a)MYJAR should add together the total of the repayments made  by Miss C towards  
interest, fees and charges on Loans 4, 5 and 6 
b)It should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Miss C 
which were considered as part of a), calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
c)MYJAR should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance  on 
Loan 7 and treat any repayments made by Miss C as though they had been  
repayments of the principal on Loan 7. If this results in Miss C having  made  
overpayments (in other words shes repaid more than the £1,500 originally advanced 
to her)  then MYJAR should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled.  
MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in a) and b) and move to step e)
d)If there  is still an outstanding balance after the steps taken in c) have been taken then the 
amounts calculated in a) and b) may be used  to repay any balance  remaining on Loan  7. 
If this results  in a surplus then the surplus  should  be paid to Miss C. However, if there 
is still an outstanding  balance (and from my calculations, I dont think there will be) 
then MYJAR should agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss C. 
e)MYJAR should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit  file in 
relation to Loans 4, 5, 6 and 7. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision I uphold Miss Cs complaint in 
part and require  MYJAR Limited to put things  with in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8529477