K820x#14complaint
Mr B, who is represented by a third party, says Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  
(Halifax),  mis- sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy in 1994. 
Mr B says he didnt know hed bought the policy and that it had been  added to his mortgage. 
He also says it wasnt explained to him. 
background
Mr B took out a Halifax mortgage in February  1992. He later took out MPPI, in or around 
March 1994. The policy provided him with cover for his mortgage  repayments for up to 
12 months if Mr B was unable to work  due to accident, sickness  or involuntary 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint has 
been passed on to me. I see that due to a mis-communication  it has taken much longer than 
normal for the complaint to reach to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr B said he couldnt remember how hed bought the MPPI.  But Halifax  accepts its possible 
he bought it at a meeting with a Halifax representative. Based on the documents  Ive seen, I 
agree its possible  the sale happened  this way. That means that Halifax had to make  sure 
the policy was suitable for Mr B and the information provided was clear,  fair and not 
misleading. From what Ive seen I cant see that Halifax didnt do this. 
Unfortunately, most of the sale documents are no longer available. But Halifax has been 
able to let me have  some of the screenshots from its computer  system.  These  show  that 
Mr B took out PPI to go with his mortgage,  albeit two years after hed taken  out the 
mortgage. From what we know about  MPPI  sales at this time its therefore  likely that Mr B 
would have been asked to complete and signed  a MPPI application form. It also seems  likely 
Mr B had a discussion with the Halifax  representative  about it and that the application was 
completed as a result of this. The application  was then signed by Mr B so I think  Halifax  
made it clear  Mr B was applying for a separate product. 
I think a key issue in this sale is the fact that Mr B bought the MPPI two years after hed 
taken out the mortgage. This suggests to me that he ought to have been  aware  of it since he 
made the decision to purchase it separately. It also suggests that Mr B knew or ought  to 
have known, that he didnt have to buy the MPPI if he didnt want it. Instead,  he made a 
definite decision to go ahead with it. 
Mr B was eligible for the MPPI so he wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover. So I dont think  Mr B would have found it difficult if he needed to make  a claim. 
Ref: DRN89663262Mr B said he was entitled some work benefits  from his employer if he couldnt work  of 
around three  months pay. 
Taking all this into account, I think the policy  was suitable. This is because the policy  
wouldve covered  his mortgage payment for up to 12 months following a successful  claim.  
This would have been in addition to Mr Bs work  benefits, or any other sources of income 
Mr B may have had. Overall, given the serious  consequences of defaulting on mortgage  
repayments and the need to make up for any dip in his salary  whilst he was off work, I think 
Mr B wouldve  found the policy useful. 
The policy cost £24.15 per month and would have provided a monthly benefit of £350.00.  So 
if a Mr B made a successful claim,  I think the policy would have benefitted him more than it 
cost. Id have expected  the cost and benefit  to be set out on the MPPI application form  
although I cant know for sure. But I think Halifax would have taken steps to make him aware 
of these before he signed-up for the policy. 
Its always possible Halifax couldve provided  more information about the policy and the 
things the policy didnt cover. But I havent  seen anything to show  Mr B would have been 
affected by any of these,  so I dont think this information would have made  Mr B change his 
mind about  talking out the policy. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr B, especially given that his complaint has taken longer than usual 
to reach  me for a decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8966326