K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Calpe Insurance Company  Limited (CIC)  declined  his claim on his 
motor insurance policy  because of a limitation of the policy.  He wants it to deal with his 
claim.
background
Mr B had an accident and made a claim. He told CIC that he was leaving his place  of work at 
the time.  CIC said that commuting wasnt covered under his policy,  so it declined the claim. 
But Mr B said he didnt  use his car for commuting. He said hed just stopped  by the office to 
collect a friend to attend an unrelated  appointment with him. 
our adjudicators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought Mr B 
wasnt covered for travel to work, under any circumstances. But she thought CIC would still 
have offered cover, albeit on different terms, if Mr B had said he used his car for commuting. 
She thought  Mr B had been  careless in this misrepresentation. So she thought  CIC should  
settle Mr Bs claim proportionately  based on the amount of premium hed paid compared to 
what he should have  paid if hed said he used his car for commuting.
CIC replied that Mr Bs claim had been  declined as it wasnt  covered by the policy. CIC 
asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so the complaint  came  to me.  
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to CIC on 13 June  2019. I summarise my findings:
Mr B bought his policy through an online comparison site. I looked at the process he 
followed. I could  see that he was asked  to select the type of car usage he wanted. He was 
asked What  do you use the car for. He was offered a choice of Social only, Social and 
Commuting, Business or More. When he selected Social only  a Help box popped up. This 
explained that Social only doesnt cover driving to and from a place of work. 
 
So I thought  Mr B was asked a question about  car usage. I thought  in that case  the relevant 
legislation applied. Under this legislation, where a complaint arises from misrepresentation of 
information important  to an insurer, we look to see that it asked a clear  question when the 
policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  whether a policy  was 
offered. And we check whether  the informant has acted carelessly  or deliberately  in making  
the non-disclosure.
I thought Mr B was asked  a clear question about his cars usage and he selected  Social  
only, which wouldnt cover  him driving to and from work. 
But when Mr B reported his claim, he said, I was leaving  the office at my lunch-time and I 
was going to have a haircut. And later, he said I was travelling from my place of work to 
visit a barber shop. 
Ref: DRN85683162I could understand  that Mr B said he didnt think he used his car for commuting on the day of 
the accident. But I thought  it was reasonable for CIC to decide that Mr B was using his car 
for commuting on this occasion as its clear that he had the car at his workplace. 
However, I hadnt seen  evidence  from CIC that Mr B deliberately  or recklessly 
misrepresented his use of the car. I couldnt see that itd shown, for instance, that Mr B 
intended to use his car for travelling to and from work other  than on this occasion. And so I 
thought his misrepresentation was careless. 
Under the relevant legislation, if the misrepresentation  was careless, and the insurer would 
have entered  into the contract  but on different terms, the contract should be treated as if it 
had been entered into on those terms. 
CIC hadnt provided evidence that it wouldnt have offered cover for Mr B if hed selected 
Social and Commuting usage. So I thought CIC should consider and settle Mr Bs claim on a 
proportionate basis taking into account  the amount of premium Mr B paid compared to what 
he should have  paid if hed taken out a policy that included Social and Commuting usage. 
CIC told us that Mr B would have  paid an additional  £38.66 for this level of cover. He actually 
paid £2,656.59. So Mr B paid 99% of the premium he should have paid and I thought  CIC 
should settle that amount  of his claim. 
I could see that Mr Bs policy has continued as Social only. I thought it was for Mr B to 
contact his broker to change this to a Social  and Commuting policy if he wished to use his 
car in this way.
Subject to any further representations from Mr B or CIC, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require CIC to consider Mr Bs claim and 
settle it based on the proportion of premium Mr B paid compared to what he should have 
paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B replied  that he usually walked  or cycled to his work from his home  which was nearby. 
CIC replied that it thought  misrepresentation shouldnt  be used in considering this claim,  but, 
rather, the principles  of insurance. It said Mr B had used the car outside the terms of the 
policy and so it wouldnt indemnify him.
But I disagree. CIC asked  Mr B a question  about  his cars usage and it relied on the answer 
he provided. So I think the legislation relevant to misrepresentation applies.  And, as CIC 
hasnt shown that Mr B was reckless or deliberate  in giving the incorrect  answer, then the 
misrepresentation was careless. 
In that case, under the relevant  legislation, as CIC would have entered into the contract but 
on different terms, the contract should  be treated as if it had been entered into on those 
terms. And so I think CIC should consider Mr Bs claim  and settle  it on the basis  of the 
proportion of the premium  he paid compared  to what he should have paid, that is, 99%.  
Ref: DRN85683163Mr B asked whether  the storage costs for his car would  be considered in his claim.  I think 
CIC should consider  all aspects of his claim under the policys  terms and conditions.  And he 
asked whether the value of his car at the time of its loss would  be used to settle the claim. In 
the case of total loss, the settlement offer for a car is based on its market value just before 
the point of its loss. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance  Company Limited 
to consider Mr Bs claim and settle it based on the proportion of premium Mr B paid 
compared to what he should have paid,  that is, 99%.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8568316