K820x#14complaint
A complaint has been brought by a business  partnership and is that Barclays  Bank Plc 
(trading as Barclaycard)  increased the charges for taking card payments without giving  
notice.
background
The partnership had entered  into a merchant services agreement  with Barclaycard. The 
partners noticed  in October 2018  that the charges for processing card payments had 
increased  some by as much as five times.  The partners said they had not received any 
notice of the increase.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Barclaycard 
had provided a copy of a letter to the partnership dated 25 June  2018  about the changes.  
This had the correct  business address and Barclaycard had a system entry  confirming this 
mailing. It had provided two months notice of a change in line with the terms and conditions. 
The new fees applied  from 1 September 2018  and the partners contacted  Barclaycard  in 
October 2018. He understood  that the fees were then reduced but he said Barclaycard did 
not have to back date this.
The partnership did not agree. The partners  said that they did not have any more  evidence 
but Barclaycard  was not able to show that its letter was received by them.  If it had been the 
partners would have  got in touch  as they had in October 2018. All that is requested is the 
difference between  the higher fees applied compared to the new rates.  The partnership said 
that it was considering action in the small claims court.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The partnership was fairly bound by the terms and conditions of its agreement with 
Barclaycard. And as our investigator  has said it could  change the charges provided it gave 
two months notice. I know that the partners have  been sent a copy of the letter  and the 
systems entry about the mailing. I think Barclaycard has shown  on balance that it met the 
notice requirement. It cannot  be responsible for problems  with the post and it could consider 
that notice had been given.
I cant say what happened to this letter in the postal system. But the actions of the partners 
are consistent with them not realising that the charges had increased by this extent.  The 
statement showing the first impact of the increase was dated 30 September  2018. And the 
partners were in touch with Barclaycard on 8 October 2018. I understand different charging 
rates have been agreed and the partnership wants these backdated.
Im afraid Barclaycard has acted in line with the agreement and has the commercial 
discretion to set its fees and charges. So I dont have a basis  to require it to change  them.  
Thats something that was open to Barclaycard to do when the partnership  complained  but 
its decided not to here. I appreciate that the partners will be disappointed  by my 
conclusions. If they do not accept my decision they are free to pursue this matter in court 
subject to any relevant  time limit as theyve indicated  they might.
Ref: DRN83418242my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the partnership to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8341824