K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that the Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  him a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in November 2002 in 
connection with a Burtons store card. 
background
Mr W bought the policy  in 2002 around five years  after he took out a store  card. He says he 
doesnt remember being sold PPI and would  never  have bought it. He added  he thought the 
PPI payments were  hidden in his direct debit  payments he paid to settle the store card 
account.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with our adjudicators view and 
asked for the matter  to be looked  at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr Ws case.
 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I know  this will disappoint Mr W so Ill explain why.
The PPI was probably sold during a telephone call sometime  (around  five years) after 
Mr W took out the store card.
Based  on what we know about  how FICL sold PPI, I think  FICL most  likely made Mr 
W aware that he had a choice  about buying  the PPI, and that he chose to take it.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mr W doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover   and, based on what Ive seen about his 
circumstances from his completed  PPI questionnaire, it looks like the policy couldve 
been useful to him. So I dont think better  information would have stopped him buying 
it. 
While  Mr W was entitled to some  sick pay the PPI would have paid out on top of this 
and lasted for longer. 
I have taken into account Mr Ws recent comments, including  what  hes said about never 
knowingly buying PPI, the PPI being hidden in his direct  debit  payments and the charges not 
appearing on his statement. But these points  dont change  my conclusion.  The sale
was a long time ago and it may be that he has simply forgotten that he agreed to the
policy. In light of all the information available to me, I think  thats more  likely  than FICL
having added the PPI without his knowledge. Mr W sent us two statements to show there 
were no obvious  PPI payments. But its possible the payments may have been recorded  on 
earlier statements. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN89693822Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8969382