K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about mis-sold payday loans given to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading 
as QuickQuid). Mr H says these loans were  unaffordable.  
background
Ive put together a table  of borrowing based  on the information QuickQuid has given us:
loan number loan amount received dateactual  repayment 
date
1 £100.00 02/07/2014 10/07/2014
2 £150.00 28/08/2014
2a £50.00 30/08/201411/09/2014
3 £300.00 24/01/2015 05/02/2015
4 £200.00 24/02/2015 09/04/2015
5 £300.00 09/04/2015 22/04/2015
6 £350.00 08/05/2015 18/06/2015
7 £350.00 21/06/2015 26/06/2015
8 £150.00 11/08/2015
8a £200.00 13/08/201507/09/2015
9 £300.00 22/09/2015 27/09/2015
10 £350.00 04/10/2015
10a £150.00 08/10/201504/12/2015
11 £250.00 29/02/2016
11a £275.00 29/03/201612/05/2016
12 £450.00 22/05/2016 12/06/2016
13 £500.00 30/10/2016
13a £100.00 21/11/201604/12/2016
14 £650.00 06/03/2017
14a £450.00 03/04/201719/05/2017
15 £1,500.00 20/05/2017 13/06/2017
16 £1,500.00 28/06/2017 outstanding balance
Several of the loans were  topped up, these have been denoted  with an a.
Mr H appears  to have had some problems  repaying  his final loan and based on the 
information Ive seen an outstanding balance remains.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Hs complaint and she thought QuickQuid shouldnt 
have given Mr H some of his loan. However, the adjudicator  thought that had QuickQuid 
carried out proportionate checks for the first three  loans  so she didnt think QuickQuid was 
wrong to lend in those  instances. 
From loan four the adjudicator thought QuickQuid shouldve  been making some further 
enquires with Mr H about whether he had any outstanding short  term credit  commitments. 
But she concluded that even if QuickQuid had made  further enquires, this loan wouldve 
appeared affordable for Mr H.
Ref: DRN82417452And from loan five, the adjudicator thought QuickQuid shouldve carried out a full financial 
review of Mr Hs financial  situation,  taking on board the number of, and increasing amount of 
these loans. 
The adjudicator wasnt able - given the information  she had available - to say whether 
QuickQuid was wrong to have given Mr H loan five. However, she had more information  
about Mr Hs financial position for the rest of his loans. Based on what  she could  see she 
didnt think QuickQuid shouldve lent to Mr H taking into account his regular living costs, 
outstanding short term loans and the amounts  he was spending on betting  websites each 
month.
Mr H and his representatives  didnt have anything further to add about the adjudicators  
assessment so they appear to have  agreed with the adjudicators findings. 
QuickQuid didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, in response,  it made a number  of 
points including;
the affordability  checks  carried out by QuickQuid were in accordance with the 
regulations at the time  and based on these checks the loans appeared affordable;
QuickQuid has provided further information about  the types of checks and how it 
assessed whether the loans were affordable for Mr H for loans taken from March 2015 
and
Mr H was asked before each loan application to confirm that his income and his 
outgoings were  correct.
These points didnt change the adjudicators mind, so the case has been passed to me for 
consideration.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive carefully thought about everything 
Ive been given and having  done so, Im partly upholding Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain 
why below. 
To begin with, Mr H hasnt  disagreed with the findings the adjudicator reached for loans 1  
5. As such these loans  appear to be no longer in dispute so in this decision Ill only be 
focussing on loans  6  16.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  QuickQuid lent to Mr H. The 
FCAs Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the high level standards  which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with. PRIN  2.1.1 R (6) says A firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific  to consumer credit 
providers, such as Quick  Quid. At the time, of these  loans  so from July 2014, these 
required lenders  to take reasonable steps to assess the customers ability  to meet  
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the 
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.  - 
CONC 5.3.1G(2). 
Ref: DRN82417453CONC 5.3.1G (6) defined  sustainable as being  able to make repayments  without  undue  
difficulty. It went on to explain that this means the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.   
So  treating customers fairly in the context  of providing credit  meant  assessing  their ability  
to repay  the credit  in a sustainable way. And how should  lenders have gone  about making 
these assessments?
CONC 5.2.3G said that 
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  in 
a given case, should be dependent  upon  and proportionate to factors which  may include one 
or more  of the following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount  of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking  the credit;
(5) the customer's credit history,  including any indications that the customer is  
experiencing or has experienced  financial difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments  including any repayments due in 
respect of other  credit  agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated  
mortgage contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity,  gas, 
telecommunications, water  and other major outgoings  known to the firm;
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably  expected to have 
a significant financial  adverse impact  on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental  capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this 
to be so because  the customer displays indications of some form of mental 
capacity limitation.
CONC 5.2.4G (2) said that
 A firm should consider what is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent on, 
for example, the type and amount of credit being  sought and the potential risks to the 
customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable  directly relates to the amount of credit 
granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
And CONC 5.2.4G (3) said that
A firm should consider the types  and sources of information to use in its  assessment  
which may, depending on the circumstances,  include some  or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
Ref: DRN82417454(f) information provided by the customer.
It is important  to note here that the FCA didnt,  and doesnt, specify  exactly  how the 
assessment is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer. In other words  the assessment needs  to be 
consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment  of the risk to the lender of not recovering  the 
credit to its satisfaction, but of the risk to the consumer  of incurring financial difficulties or 
experiencing significant adverse consequence  as a result of the decision to lend. 
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible  what is sufficient for one consumer might  
not be for another,  or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance 
might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.  
what should have  happened when Mr H applied for credit and did QuickQuid get this right? 
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, 
for example, Id expect a lender to seek more  assurance by carrying carry out more detailed  
checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
In coming to a decision on Mr Hs case,  where  QuickQuid agreed  one loan, I have 
considered the following questions:
did QuickQuid complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Hs loan application to satisfy  itself that he would  be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? (And if not, would those checks have shown that he would have 
been able to do so?)
did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Having done so, Ive concluded  that QuickQuid was irresponsible to lend to Mr H because  
taking into account  the above  factors I dont think its checks  were proportionate.  So I plan to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint  about loans 6 - 16 and ask QuickQuid to refund  the interest and 
charges he paid for these loans. I appreciate that this will be disappointing  for QuickQuid 
and Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Firstly, I want to address one of the arguments QuickQuid has made in response  to our 
adjudicator. It went on to say In response  to FOS assessment which recommends 
CashEuroNet UK uphold loans which were funded after March 2015,  we regret to inform you 
that cannot agree to FOS recommendations. Please  note that in CashEuroNet UKs initial 
response to FOS we provided detailed information indicating why the loans were  responsibly 
lent to Mr H.
Ref: DRN82417455The above  is reference to what QuickQuid has told us previously about the new,  enhanced 
checks that it says were carried out on all loans from March 2015. The basis of this 
argument is that all checks  carried out, on loans after this date are consistent  with the FCA 
Handbook and met the FCAs rate cap and affordability rules. 
QuickQuid seems to be saying that because it reviewed its processes and incorporated new 
regulatory changes  as it was required to, all loans for all customers granted from 
1 March 2015 onwards were granted responsibly.
I dont agree with this argument. It doesnt follow that a firm cant  have treated any consumer 
unfairly simply because it has been authorised and is regulated by the FCA. This assumes 
that an authorised  firms regulated activities are always  implemented  in a way that results in 
fair outcomes for all consumers. This is not the case, as the experience of this Service  
shows. 
QuickQuid suggests  that the checks it conducts  at the time of lending are proportionate in 
every circumstance. And it considers these checks to have been enhanced through  its 
review. But, as Ive explained  above,  the FCA is not prescriptive about how the relevant 
rules and guidance set out in CONC should be implemented, specifically CONC does not set 
out how a lender ought to go about its affordability  assessments. CONC does say that the 
assessment that should be carried out is dependent on what  is appropriate for both the 
consumers circumstances and the particulars of the loan in question.  So it doesnt follow 
that a standard way of assessing loan applications, whatever the scope or sources of 
information that is used is automatically right for all consumers in all circumstances. And so I 
cant pre-judge Mr Hs complaint about irresponsible lending  on the basis that the 
affordability checks QuickQuid carried out were  the right thing to do in his case. And I am not 
planning to automatically reject  his complaint on this basis.
In addition to this point, as Ive mentioned, there  are also other considerations which  this 
Service is required to take into account  when making determinations on complaints. As the 
FCA Handbook sets out in the rules and guidance relevant to dispute  handing; 
The Ombudsman  will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case . (DISP 3.6.1R)
And DISP  3.6.4R goes  on to explain  that
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case,  the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate)  what  he considers  to have been good industry practice  at the 
relevant time.
So, I am required to consider more than the rules and guidance set out by the regulators  in 
making my determination on a complaint.  And so I would not be acting in accordance  with 
my statutory role if I only considered the extent to which QuickQuid complied  with rules and 
guidance set out by the FCA in my determination. 
Ref: DRN82417456Looking at what actually  happened in this case   QuickQuid has told us it took details of 
Mr Hs expenditure  and Mr H declared  he earned  between £1,738 and £4,148 per month 
during the period loans  6  16 were given. And throughout the entire  time Mr H borrowed 
from QuickQuid he declared  his monthly  outgoings  to be £475  per month. 
By loan 6, QuickQuid was also aware that Mr H had declared disposable income of £1,263  
meaning this loan mightve appeared affordable  for Mr H. However,  Mr H had been taking 
loans from QuickQuid for a little under  a year and generally Mr Hs borrowing increased  with 
each loan. Mr Hs sixth loan was now more than three times the size of his first loan. 
But by now, I think QuickQuid ought to have had some  concerns that Mr H was becoming  
dependent on this type of borrowing, taking into account the increasing amounts being  lent 
and the frequency of the borrowing. And this shouldve prompted QuickQuid to carry out 
further, more in-depth checks before agreeing to lend.
Ive thought about what QuickQuid has said about its checks at this time being  more 
involved than the checks it carried out for Mr Hs earlier loans. But, for the reasons Ive 
outlined above,  I no longer think QuickQuid  could rely so heavily on the information  that Mr 
H had provided. I think by now, it wouldve been proportionate to have had a thorough 
understanding of Mr Hs financial position which wouldve  included  verifying some of the 
information he had provided. I dont think that cross referencing  declared information against 
generic research was the right way to do this at this stage. 
QuickQuid couldve verified  the information  a number of ways.  For example, it couldve 
asked to see evidence  of Mr Hs income and outgoings. Or, as Ive done here, it couldve 
asked to see Mr Hs bank  statements.  The bank statements are the best indication of Mr Hs 
ability to afford the loan at the time it was approved, so I dont think its unreasonable to rely 
on them.
In this case, Ive reviewed  Mr Hs bank  statement  at the time loan six was given; I think  had 
QuickQuid done  the same or verified what he was saying in some other way, it wouldve 
likely seen Mr H couldnt afford this loan. Mr H appears to be paid weekly  and in the weeks  
leading up to this loan he earned  between  £400 and £800 per week. So I think the income  
he declared wasnt quite  accurate.  I think its more likely than not QuickQuid wouldve 
discovered his income was around £3,000 per month at this time  but that didnt in itself 
make the loan affordable. 
I also think proportionate checks  wouldve  likely  shown QuickQuid that at the time the loan 
was approved, Mr H owed another short term lender around £1,000   and he had recently 
repaid a number  of other lenders around  £1,500.  In addition, I think its also likely QuickQuid 
wouldve seen that Mr H was using the majority of his income on betting  websites. In the 
month leading  up to loan six being taken out Mr H had spent over £2,000 on such sites.  
So without looking at any living costs but considering his credit commitments  (loans,  credit  
card and phone bill) at around £800  per month,  along with his outstanding  short  term credit  
commitments and his use of betting  websites - Mr H didnt have sufficient funds to repay 
what he was already committed to paying.  And as a responsible lender, I dont think 
QuickQuid shouldve given Mr H this loan.
For all remaining loans, I also dont think QuickQuids checks  went far enough. QuickQuid 
continued to frequently lend to Mr H. So Mr H was becoming further indebted to QuickQuid 
as generally each new loan was for more than the previous one  by the end of Mr Hs 
Ref: DRN82417457lending he ended up owing  over £1,500. Taking  all of these factors  into account, I dont think 
the checks QuickQuid  carried  out went far enough because by now,  I think Mr H was 
showing signs of dependency on these types  of loans.  
As above, Mr H has provided his bank statements and Ive reviewed these for the remaining 
borrowing period.  And having done  so, Mr Hs financial situation  doesnt change from his 
sixth loan  in fact, from what I can see it appears Mr Hs financial position deteriorated.
Mr H continued to be paid weekly, and his income  fluctuated quite significantly during this 
time  he was earning up to £1,800 a week, which may have given QuickQuid  the 
impression that Mr H would be able to afford these loans. But on average, his income was 
around £1,000  per week  so Ive thought about  Mr Hs monthly income as being around  
£4,000 per month.
However, I dont think Mr H could afford  to take on any of the remaining loans   regardless 
as to how much his weekly income was. I say this because he continued to take loans from 
a number of different short  term lenders  throughout the time he took loans from QuickQuid. 
And he also appears to have taken out, new longer term credit  commitments such as a 
number of personal loans.
For example in the weeks before  loan 8 was approved, he had recently repaid over £1,000  
to other  short term creditors and had one outstanding short  term loan of £600 from another 
lender. At this time he had also spent over £1,200 on betting websites. And by the time of 
loan 8 QuickQuid  wouldve  likely  seen that Mr H was borrowing from one payday lender in 
order to repay another  so a pattern of dependency ought to have become apparent at this 
point. 
This pattern continued and during this period of time that Mr H continued to rely on 
borrowing from at least 5 other short term lenders  and on a monthly  basis Mr Hs 
commitments to these other  lenders was usually no less than £2,500 per month. 
A review of Mr Hs financial situation wouldve also likely shown  QuickQuid that Mr H 
continued to use gambling websites. He had spent around £2,000 in the month before loan 
12 was approved and around  £4,000 when loan 15 was approved. And Mr H still had his 
regular living costs  and regular financial commitments  including a number of credit  cards -
payments and loan repayments that were  around  £800 per month.  
So taking everything in to account   I think proportionate checks  wouldve likely shown 
QuickQuid that these loans werent sustainably affordable for Mr H. He was spending  
significant amounts  each  month on gambling  as well as servicing  other short term credit 
commitments. And as a responsible lender QuickQuid  wouldve likely seen this and not 
approved the loans.  This means, Ive had to think about what  Im going to be asking 
QuickQuid to do to put things  right.  
credit file
Ive thought very carefully about what should happen to Mr Hs credit file. The reason being 
is that the greater  the presence  of short-term loans on Mr Hs credit file this could make it 
more difficult to rehabilitate his financial  position  and regain  access to mainstream lenders. 
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving the accuracy of Mr Hs credit history  and 
creditworthiness, so other lenders can make informed decisions as to whether to lend.  I think  
that the mere  presence of this many  loans on Mr Hs credit file, in itself,  constitute adverse 
Ref: DRN82417458information. And I think that this many short-term loans appearing on Mr Hs credit  file is 
likely to continue to adversely affect him going  forwards. 
So in the circumstances I think that it is fair and reasonable for QuickQuid to remove  all 
reference to loans 6  16 from Mr Hs credit  file. 
To put things right  for Mr H, QuickQuid should :
refund all the interest and charges paid by Mr H for loans 6 -15, 
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ; and
remove all adverse  information recorded  on Mr Hs credit file as a result  of these loans. 
Given the number  of loans and my reasons for upholding  the complaint about them, I 
think that the sheer number of loans is in itself adverse. So, in this instance, all 
reference to loans 6  16 should  be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
For loan 16 QuickQuid should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding 
balance. QuickQuid should then re-work the account  as if all payments made by Mr H went 
towards the principle  sum. But importantly, QuickQuid needs to make  sure that Mr H doesnt  
repay more  than the principle amount he borrowed.   
If, after the account rework Mr H has already paid enough to fully repay the principle sum 
then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple  interest  from the date of 
the overpayment  to the date of settlement
If however after the above rework, Mr H still has an outstanding principle balance due, then 
QuickQuid can use the refund  from loans 6  15 to offset this amount. If this would still leave 
an outstanding  balance then Id remind QuickQuid of its obligation to treat him positively and 
sympathetically. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Hs complaint.  
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right for Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8241745