K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains, in summary, that Barclays Bank  UK PLC did not do enough  to help him 
recover all the money he had paid to a binary  options trading  platform  using  his Barclays 
VISA debit  card. 
Background
After being cold called by an entity offering  binary  options trading, B Ltd, Mr E made 60 
payments to it totalling £72,900  from May 2016 to June  2017. But by September 2017, was 
concerned when he experienced  problems on his trading platform with it freezing and 
appeared to be given incorrect advice on investment trades by B Ltd. He then discovered 
that B Ltd, along  with access to his trading platform disappeared. That led him to approach 
the bank to retrieve his money.  
Barclays initially  agreed to process  chargeback claims  for three transactions  in October  
2017, it said it could  only process transactions made within the last 120 days  because of 
VISAs chargeback time limits   these claims were successful. In April 2018, the bank 
agreed to process  chargebacks for a further  11 transactions because it recognised VISA 
allowed a maximum  of 540 days for claims to be processed  these chargeback claims were  
also successful because  B Ltd didnt defend the claims. Barclays offered Mr S £100  for the 
trouble and upset as it recognised it could have provided him with a better service. Mr S 
declined the banks compensation offer and referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator queried why Barclays hadnt applied  the 540-day time limit to all of the 
disputed payments when  it received  Mr S complaint in October 2017. Barclays  explained  it 
shouldnt have  applied  the 540-day time limit as this was a mistake. It said the 120-day time 
limit ought to have  been applied to the date of each transaction  as this was the date the 
services were  received. Our investigator  disagreed and concluded that Barclays  ought to 
refund Mr S his outstanding money, plus interest.  
Although Mr S accepted  the investigators suggestion, Barclays  did not respond. After a 
delay of more than seven  months  during which time Mr S found it difficult  to understand 
why the bank was taking  so long  Barclays still has not responded. The complaint has, 
therefore, been referred to me for review and determination. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our statutory rules  provide   at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct  Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision  on the basis of what has been supplied  and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information  requested;
And that.
If a respondent  fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:  (1) proceed 
with the consideration of the complaint;  and (2) include provision  for any material 
Ref: DRN85448162distress or material inconvenience  caused  by that failure in any award  which he 
decides to make. 
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Barclays, it is fair and 
reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have and to take account of 
Barclays failure to reply.  
To begin with, there is no dispute that Mr S agreed  to make all the payments he did to B Ltd. 
Mr S says he started with a small initial investment and was persuaded to invest  more  with 
the promise of a dedicated account manager  and a risk free investment. But he became 
concerned when  his trading platform began to freeze and his account manager  was giving 
him poor advice. B Ltd, along with access to his trading platform   disappeared. 
Our investigator looked into B Ltds background and determined, on balance,  that it was 
operating a scam binary options  trading platform. This appeared undisputed by Barclays.  
Our investigator also pointed to the misrepresentation  reason code which  allowed for claims 
to be brought  within 540 days, which ought  to have been apparent  to Barclays  in October  
2017. In all circumstances, therefore, I share  the investigators view that Barclays should  
have been more alert to the various  adverse indicators  about B Ltd at the time it received Mr 
S complaint  than it apparently was, including when preparing its chargeback submissions. 
The trading  platform  ought  to have been considered the provision of an ongoing service and 
when B Ltd disappeared along with the trading platform it had provided Mr S, Barclays  ought  
to have applied  the 120-day time limit from that date  which  in this case  was September 
2017. So when Mr S approached the bank in October 2017, it would have had the 
opportunity to process chargebacks for all his disputed transactions.  
The chargeback  scheme is voluntary and banks are not under any formal obligation to 
submit a chargeback claim. However,  this services view is that it is good practice for a bank 
always to process a chargeback claim unless it is, for example, very evident on the basic 
facts that it stands no reasonable prospect of success. That was not the case here  but 
either way Barclays did indeed submit  a total of 14 chargeback requests  all of which  
succeeded. It applied  the 540-day rule to 11 transactions in April 2018, so I share the 
investigators view that it ought to have  applied this consideration to all transactions  in 
October 2017. 
It follows from this, therefore, that I consider Barclays should have pursued the chargeback 
process for all of Mr S transactions. It is now too late for Barclays to do so  but if it had 
done so it seems more  likely than not, in all the circumstances  and on balance of 
probabilities, that he would  have  received a refund of those  payments as well. 
Although most of Mr S distress or inconvenience  probably resulted from the criminal  acts of 
B Ltd, I agree that Barclays  could  have handled  his complaint  better and believe  the £100 
offered by it was reasonable even though Mr S rejected this at the time. But I also think it 
could have done more  to protect  him from the impact of its statutory duty to co-operate with 
our complaints process (DISP Rule 1.4.4  of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook).  
I therefore consider an additional £200  compensation  for distress or inconvenience to be 
appropriate. Im aware that additional  compensation hasnt previously been awarded.  But 
given where  we are in the complaint journey,  and the fact compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience is a matter of discretion, I believe it should fairly be paid in this case. 
Finally, I have  noted  in Barclays  business  file submissions that it stated Mr S received 
refunds from B Ltd totalling £1,500 on 5 December 2016. I have reviewed Mr S bank  
Ref: DRN85448163statements and have  seen that these amounts were credited in February 2017  rather than 
December 2016.  In any event, Barclays will be entitled to deduct  this from the settlement. 
My Final  Decision
For the reasons I have  explained, my Final Decision is that I uphold  this complaint. To settle 
it, Barclays Bank UK PLC pay Mr S:
1.The money he paid to B Ltd from May 2016 to June 2017  less any refunds he 
received directly  from B Ltd and the chargeback process within 28 days  of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
2.Interest at an annual rate of 8% simple,  from the date Mr S requested  Barclays to 
process chargebacks  in October  2017.
3.£300 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter  has caused also within  28 
days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision, failing which  
interest will thereafter accrue at 8% simple per year until payment is made.
If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers it is required to deduct tax from the interest element of 
my award it should  provide Mr S with an appropriate tax deduction  certificate  so that he 
may seek to reclaim  the tax if he considers he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8544816