K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to provide him with details 
of 12 accounts  that he held with it.
background 
Mr S says that he asked  Halifax to provide  details  of previously  held accounts  but it said he 
didnt have any accounts. He says he brought a complaint to us and eventually  Halifax 
accepted he did hold 12 accounts.  Mr S says he was lied to on a number of occasions  and 
that he could have had complaints about  miss-sold products.  He says he would like £500 
compensation per account and for Halifaxs actions investigated and it to be fined.
Halifax says its apologised for not locating the accounts and says the accounts were  held on 
a different historical  system.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. The 
investigator thought  it reasonable to have expected Halifax to have  carried out appropriate 
checks and that Mr S had made a number of calls to it. The investigator listened  to the calls 
between the parties  and thought Halifax could have  resolved matters at an earlier stage.
The investigator accepted Mr S had been  caused  stress and inconvenience but hadnt 
suffered any financial  loss. The investigator recommended that Halifax  pay £100 
compensation to Mr S.
Halifax has agreed to pay that compensation.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says Halifax has made thousands of pounds from his 
accounts and says he should  be awarded £100  per account. He maintains he has been  lied 
to and that some of the products may have been miss-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator that Halifax could have dealt with Mr Ss complaint more  
appropriately. I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed  by my decision and I also 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
There is no question here that Halifax initially told Mr S that he didnt hold any accounts with 
it despite a number of requests. I accept that Mr S contacted Halifax on a number of 
occasions and provided all reasonable information to trace those accounts. So I have no 
doubt that Mr S was caused inconvenience and distress and spent some time trying  to sort 
matters out. I have also listened to the calls between the parties and accept that Mr S was 
caused frustration  during  those calls. But I dont think  Halifax lied to Mr S but made a 
mistake.
Im satisfied that Halifax should pay Mr S compensation and I agree with the investigators 
recommendation that it should pay £100. Im also satisfied that amount is fair and 
reasonable and fairly recognises  the level of distress and inconvenience Mr S was caused. I 
dont think Mr S has suffered any financial loss and think he is free to complain  about  any 
miss-sold products separately to Halifax.
Ref: DRN89927322I appreciate that Mr S says that Halifax should be fined as a result of what took place. But I 
should explain our role, that we are not the regulator of banks  and building societies. And so 
that is not something I can order. I also cant order any investigation into Halifax and why it 
told Mr S that he didnt have any accounts.
I accept that Mr S is unlikely to agree  with my decision and so I dont intend to order that 
Halifax pay him the £100 compensation but will leave  it to him to decide if he wishes  to 
accept it. Im also satisfied that brings  an end to what we in trying to sort out this dispute 
informally can to.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Bank  of Scotland  plc trading  as 
Halifax has agreed to pay a fair and reasonable amount of £100 compensation. Mr Ss 
acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8992732