K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the amount of compensation HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has 
offered to settle  his complaint about mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out 
alongside his credit card.
background
Mr S took out his credit card in August  2003 and in August  2007  PPI was added  to the 
account. Mr S has recently  complained the PPI was mis-sold and HSBC  agreed to uphold  
his complaint and pay him some compensation.
HSBC offered £3.05 in compensation after tax. Mr S says he recalls he paid much  more than 
this for the PPI and brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said what HSBC had offered was fair. Mr S still wasnt happy and asked for 
an ombudsman to consider his complaint. Mr S is represented by a third party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has agreed to settle Mr Ss complaint that the PPI was mis-sold so Im not looking into 
how it came  to be sold. Im only looking at whether the amount of compensation offered by 
HSBC to settle the complaint is fair.
HSBC has provided  all the records it has for the account. These show the credit card was 
taken out in August 2003 and the PPI was added in August 2007. This sale of PPI most 
likely occurred when a replacement credit card was provided and activated following expiry  
of the original card on the account.
The records  from HSBC also show that between 2007 and January 2010 there was a small 
credit balance on the account  but no spending.  In March 2010 there was a spend on the 
account and a small balance carried over to April 2010, then cleared. Then the account was 
clear until January 2011 when there  was again  a small spend. This was cleared and from 
February 2010 onwards there  was no balance on the account.
HSBC has worked out that premiums for PPI would have been paid when there  was a 
balance, which was only in the periods I have indicated. And the total PPI charged was 
£2.00, including interest on the premiums. So in its compensation offer HSBC  has included  
this £2.00 and also added 8% simple  interest to give a total figure of £3.31 before tax.
I can see from the account records sent that the costs paid by Mr S for the PPI are in line 
with what I would expect  for the spending  and interest ever charged  on the account from 
2007 onwards.
Mr S says he recalls paying  more  for the PPI but hasnt  been able to provide any information 
to support this.
Ref: DRN85780272Taking account of the evidence I have seen  I think HSBCs offer of £3.05, after tax, includes 
all the costs paid for the PPI and some  compensatory interest, which  is what  I would expect 
HSBC to pay. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out I am satisfied that the offer of HSBC  UK Bank  Plc made  to 
Mr S is fair and Im not telling it to pay anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8578027