K822xcomplaint
Ms H complains that she was mis-sold a mortgage and some related services  by an 
appointed representative of Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited  (L&G).
Ms H is represented in bringing this complaint by a claims  management company (CMC).
background 
Ms H remortgaged in 2005. She was advised  by a mortgage broker  from the firm 
Carrington Carr Home Finance Ltd, which was an appointed representative of L&G at the 
time.
Prior to the remortgage, Ms H had an existing mortgage that operated  on a repayment  basis,  
with an outstanding balance of around £61,000. She owed  around  £500 on a credit card and 
around £2,000  on her overdraft. She also had a bank loan with about ten months left to run. 
The broker  recommended  that Ms H consolidate her credit  card and overdraft debt into the 
mortgage and change the repayment  method to an interest only basis. Under the new 
mortgage, Ms H borrowed a little over £72,000. 
In 2018, the CMC complained to L&G on Ms Hs behalf. It raised a number of concerns with 
the sale of the mortgage, saying in particular that:
Ms H hadnt had an urgent need to remortgage. Shed been in a relatively  stable 
financial position, able to meet her obligations  each month. It said the broker had 
understated Ms Hs net monthly income, and that shed  actually had around £500  
disposable income each month. And she was only months away from paying  off her 
car loan, meaning  shed have an extra £127  back too. 
L&G had recommended that Ms H switch to an interest only basis,  even  though shed 
indicated that she wanted to have  the mortgage fully repaid by the end of the term 
and had no repayment vehicle other than selling her home.
Ms H had incurred an early repayment  charge  (ERC) in repaying her previous 
mortgage early, even though there  were  only a few months until this wouldve ceased 
to apply. And in total, shed paid almost  £4,900  to arrange the new mortgage.
Ms H had borrowed more than shed needed.  Paperwork completed at the time said 
she wanted to raise capital of around £2,500, but shed  ended  up with almost £7,500.  
Ms H had also been mis-sold a will and estate planning package, a legal 
administration service  and a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
L&G didnt uphold  Ms Hs complaint. It said in summary that:
Ms H had wanted to reduce her outgoings  as much as possible as she was finding it 
difficult to meet her monthly commitments. It rejected the CMCs comments  on 
Ms Hs net income, and said that under her previous mortgage shed only had £196  
left over each month. It said the new mortgage  increased this to £465.
Ref: DRN88197932The switch to an interest only basis had allowed Ms H to reduce her outgoings and 
she understood it would need  to be reverted to a repayment basis in the future.
The consequences of consolidating debt within the mortgage  had been  explained to 
Ms H, which  shed  understood. Some of the capital raised was to pay off her 
overdraft with the rest providing an emergency fund. Her solicitor  ought to have made 
her aware that she couldve  returned  any surplus funds to the lender.
Ms H had been made aware of the legal costs  involved and couldve made  
alternative arrangements if shed  wished. So it didnt agree that the legal 
administration service  was mis-sold.
Ms H had a need for a will but it hadnt  been right to fund this through  the mortgage. 
So it offered to refund Ms H the interest  this fee would attract over the term of the 
mortgage and pay her £150  compensation.
The PPI policy had been addressed under  a previous complaint back  in 2012, so this 
wouldnt be revisited.
So the CMC  referred  Ms Hs complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. 
He thought Ms H had a relatively low level of disposable monthly  income and noted that she 
was living  in her overdraft. So he thought shed benefitted from reducing her monthly 
outgoings  justifying the switch to interest only, debt consolidation and arrangement costs. 
He didnt find anything  wrong in how the legal services were sold but agreed  that the will 
package ought  not to have been funded through the mortgage, for which he thought L&G 
had made  a fair offer. So he didnt think it needed to do anything more.
The CMC didnt accept  our investigators  view. It still thought it had been bad advice to 
consolidate a credit card debt of £500  and to switch to an interest only mortgage, particularly 
as Ms H wasnt  in any financial difficulty.  And it couldnt see how Ms H would be able to 
better afford a switch  back to repayment  in the future. Shed have been  better  served by 
approaching her existing  lender, or by waiting until the ERC period on her existing deal 
expired. 
So with no resolution, Ms Hs complaint was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage advice
L&G says Ms H wanted to reduce her outgoings  as she was finding it difficult  to meet  the 
payments due on her existing commitments.  That desire is reflected in the brokers notes 
and letter of recommendation made at the time.  I appreciate the CMCs point that simply by 
having (and utilising) an overdraft, Ms H wasnt necessarily in financial difficulties. And I 
accept that she doesnt  seem  to have been overstretched  the only other borrowing on top 
of her mortgage was a bank loan and credit  card,  with about £2,000 owing  across  the two. 
Ref: DRN88197933However, I think that Ms H would understandably have wished to reduce her outgoings  (as 
most people  do). And rather  than simply using her overdraft, it appears  to have been static: 
the debit balance of £2,000 was noted  as staying the same within the client review 
document. So Ms H wouldve been living in her overdraft  with her net income insufficient to 
bring the account back to a credit balance.  And looking at the details  of Ms Hs income  and 
expenditure at the time, the client review shows that she only had £196 left over each month. 
So it seems  to me that while  manageable,  things  wouldve been a little tight for her.
I note the CMC questions  the net monthly income  figure used by the broker  (£1,657). It says 
Ms H wouldve  taken  home around  £2,000  after deductions. The figure recorded does look a 
little low given Ms Hs gross salary  Id expect it to be around  £1,900  after standard 
deductions. But I think its most likely that L&G got the figure from Ms H (probably by 
reviewing a payslip  or bank statement). And the difference is likely down to deductions other 
than tax and national insurance made at source   for example, pension  contributions  (which  
are highly likely given  Ms Hs job and employer). And the CMC  hasnt provided  any evidence  
to demonstrate that Ms Hs income  was any higher than stated. So I think  its reasonable to 
rely on the figures recorded at the time.
The new mortgage  met Ms Hs objective  of reducing her outgoings.  Ms H had been paying  
£440 a month to her mortgage  and £100  to her credit card. Through the new mortgage, she 
paid off her credit card and brought her monthly  mortgage payments down to just under 
£272. So a reduction of £268 a month, pushing her disposable monthly  income up to £464  
over double what it had been and a much more comfortable level.
I appreciate the CMCs  concerns  with consolidating the credit  card debt within  the new 
mortgage. There are pros and cons to this. It helped Ms H reduce her outgoings but shell  
end up paying  the debt over a much longer period  and itll likely cost her more overall. But 
factoring in the significantly lower rate of interest shell have been charged on this amount, I 
think this will only end up being  at worst   marginally more expensive  for her even if the 
mortgage runs to the end of its term. So I think it was worthwhile in order  to benefit  from the 
reduction in her monthly commitments, and isnt enough to render  the recommendation 
unsuitable. And I think the broker gave her enough information  to make an informed decision 
about this too.
The reduction in outgoings was also achieved despite  the significant  cash  release that was 
generated through the remortgage.  Ms H received around £7,500  on completion, to use as 
she wished. That allowed her to repay  her overdraft but would also have left her with a 
substantial additional  sum in excess of £5,000  to use as she wished. So shes had the 
benefit of those additional funds,  alongside the reduction in her monthly  outgoings.
Clearly a significant factor in reducing Ms Hs mortgage payment was switching the 
mortgage to an interest  only basis. Again I understand the CMCs  concerns  about this. But it 
was not intended to be a long-term change. The advisers letter  of recommendation says:
You intend to review this arrangement in the near future to ensure that 
appropriate repayments are in place.  As discussed, you also intend making 
overpayments from time to time as permitted by the mortgage scheme.
Ref: DRN88197934Ms H also wrote to confirm that the switch  to an interest only basis  was going ahead  at my 
insistence  to keep  her payment  down and that she understood the implications of doing so. 
And she went on to say that:
It is my intention to review my mortgage arrangements  and look at 
converting to a full repayment basis when my new fixed rate ends and I 
have no redemption penalties to pay.
So I think it was discussed  and agreed that Ms H would look to revert back  to a repayment 
position when  the interest  rate product expired  in 2010  and that the benefit of the lower 
payments was considered against  the fact that shed only be paying interest during the five-
year product  term. This helped Ms H achieve her aim of reducing her outgoings,  a clear 
driver for the remortgage. 
The CMCs  claim  that there  was no basis for this being feasible isnt supported  by what 
actually happened. When we asked  whether  Ms H did indeed review her mortgage in 2010,  
she confirmed that she did  and duly switched it back to a repayment basis. So it seems  to 
me that there was an agreed  strategy  in place  and that Ms H was able to benefit from it  
reducing her payments  when she had a need  to, and switching back to repayment when it 
was affordable for her.
The CMC says that Ms H couldve  obtained a new mortgage more  cheaply through her 
existing lender, so the broker shouldve recommended  that she contact them  instead.  But I 
dont think there was any general obligation on it to do that. The broker searched the market  
as a whole  for a new deal for Ms H, and found  her a lower rate than the one she was on with 
her existing lender.  So I dont think it acted unreasonably here. 
Ms H did have to pay an ERC  on her existing mortgage to switch  her arrangements.  From 
the information recorded by the adviser at the time,  an ERC would apply to the existing 
mortgage for another two years. I think incurring  that cost was justified in light of the benefits 
Ms H gained in proceeding when she did, as outlined above,  rather than waiting so long to 
review things. Again there seems to have been some discussion about the pros and cons  of 
this, with Ms H noting herself that she wished  to go ahead in order to benefit from the lower  
monthly payments.  So I dont think it renders the recommendation unsuitable, or that Ms H 
ought to have waited until the ERC  period expired as the CMC suggests. The other  costs  
Ms H had to pay to take out the mortgage  were  clearly and fairly disclosed to her.
So taking all of this into account, I dont find the brokers  recommendation to have been 
unsuitable for Ms H based on her circumstances, needs and preferences at the time.
The legal costs  
The CMC notes that some of the costs in respect of the legal work were charged  by the 
broker rather than the solicitor in the form of a legal  administration fee. Ms H had to pay 
£250 plus VAT for this, on top of the cost of her solicitors (£195 plus VAT).
I dont find anything inherently unreasonable in the legal  administration  fee itself: there are a 
number of administrative procedures that need  not have been  carried  out by a solicitor. I 
know the CMC questions the value of the work  given that a solicitor  was involved, especially 
in view of the fee it recouped. But while I appreciate where its coming from here, ultimately  it 
was up to the broker to decide what fee it wanted  to charge for the services it provided.
Ref: DRN88197935These fees were set out in a Solicitors Form of Authorisation.  This confirmed Ms Hs 
instruction to pay £250 plus VAT to the broker in respect of the legal administration  service, 
on top of the legal costs paid to the solicitor. And Ms H signed  that form. So I think she was 
clearly informed about the fee and what it was for  and she agreed to pay it. So I dont think  
it was unfairly charged.
The CMC says that Ms H was also led to believe that the legal  administration service was a 
pre-requisite of the mortgage and that she wasnt  given the option of appointing her own 
solicitors. But Ive not seen any evidence of that.  
The CMC has also raised concerns that the broker received commission  for recommending  
the firm of solicitors used for the conveyancing work. But while  the complaints been with us, 
L&G has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the complaint which  the CMC has accepted. 
So I make no finding on that matter here and understand that L&G will settle the issue 
directly with Ms H, via the CMC.
The will package
I dont think it was bad advice for the broker to suggest that Ms H keep the arrangements for 
her estate under review  (or to draw up a will if she didnt already have one). I understand the 
CMC thinks  that the broker  unfairly influenced Ms H to use a particular firm for this. And I 
note that the broker and the will provider  had directors in common.  But I dont find it 
inherently wrong that the broker would introduce Ms H to a particular company,  even  if they 
shared (some)  directors.
The CMC considers the cost of the will service to have been over the market  rate. But as the 
will package itself was provided by a third party,  the question as to whether it provided value 
for money  isnt something I can direct to L&G. Any such concerns ought  to be referred to the 
provider.
I agree  that there doesnt appear to be much  justification for funding the will package by 
adding the fee to the mortgage  balance, particularly in view of a cash  surplus that was 
generated under the remortgage. But L&G has already recognised that might  not have been 
suitable and offered to refund any interest that Ms H will incur  on this fee over the life of the 
mortgage. So she wont have lost out financially as a result of this element of the advice. 
L&G has also offered  her £150 compensation, which seems reasonable for any upset or 
inconvenience caused. So I dont think I can fairly require it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited has made  a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle Ms Hs complaint  so I require it to honour that offer, but nothing 
more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8819793