K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about what British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) did when he had a leak.
background
Mr M has an insurance policy  with BGI which covers  repairs to the plumbing system  in his 
home. He told us that he rang BGI on 7 June, when  he saw a damp patch on his ceiling. 
BGI sent a plumber  out the same day. He said that the cistern inlet pipe was leaking in 
Mr Ms bathroom, and he changed the pipe to the cistern.
Mr M rang again on 9 June. He told us that the leak wasnt fixed, it was getting worse.  There  
was still water coming through the kitchen ceiling. A plumber attended on the same  day, and 
said that there were  no leaks  from the bathroom.  He said that the carpet  was wet in the 
bedroom, and there  was a leak on the heating pipes  to the bedroom. There  was also a 
problem with the boiler. So that plumber booked a gas engineer to come  out the next day. 
BGI sent that gas engineer out on 10 June. He said that there was a leak in the cold water 
pipe under the floor in the hallway. That leak was fixed by later the same  day, by a plumber. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that the key point was whether there were 
two separate leaks, or not. He thought that there was just one leak.  He noted that the damp 
kept showing up in the same  place, and the leak continued to impact the cold water  supply. 
He also noted  that there  were only two days between the leak reports.
If there was just one leak, then the work that BGIs plumber did on the first visit didnt fix that 
leak. Our investigator thought that the damage had got worse between  the first visit and 
when the leak was finally fixed. He said he thought  that because at first it was simply a wet 
patch, and by the last call Mr M made, water was coming through the ceiling. 
But our investigator said that he couldnt ask BGI to pay for those repairs, because  he didnt 
have any information  from Mr M about  how much  it would cost him to repair his floorboards. 
And our investigator said that this policy wouldnt cover those repairs. 
Our investigator said that he could ask BGI to pay for the inconvenience  and distress that 
this problem had caused Mr M. Hed had four days without fresh water,  and had been forced 
to deal with a wet carpet and damaged floorboards. Our investigator said that £300 would 
adequately reflect the distress and inconvenience that this would cause. 
Mr M said that he was happy to accept that amount. But BGI didnt  think it should have to 
pay that. It said that if Mr M had said that the leak was coming  from the bathroom, then the 
plumber who attended on 7 June wouldve looked  there. And when BGI visited on 9 June, 
that plumber wouldve  seen that there were no leaks in the bathroom  so he checked the 
bedroom. It was unfortunate that the leak had turned out to be in the bedroom,  which BGI 
had found the second time it visited. 
BGI said that it had explained that the repair couldnt  be fully carried out on 9 June, because  
the boiler pressure  was showing zero and that meant a gas engineer was needed to check  
the system. BGI didnt think it should  be penalised for that. It said that it had attended each 
of the appointments within a reasonable timeframe. BGI said it wanted this complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN89401382my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr M has insurance that covers  repairs  to plumbing leaks in his property. BGI has 
accepted that Mr M made a valid claim on this insurance, for work to repair a leak.  
-This complaint is about whether BGI did that work fast enough,  and whether the delay 
caused damage to Mr Ms property,  or distress  and inconvenience to him. 
-Our investigator thought that there was one leak, for the reasons Ive set out above. Im 
not sure thats  right. I think there may actually have  been  two leaks. I think that the cold 
water was impacted  because Mr M turned it off. He told BGI hed done that. And I think 
that its reasonable to assume that the first plumber who visited  repaired a pipe leading  
to Mr Ms cistern  because he found  a leak there.
-But we know now that this didnt fix the problem. 
-Ive listened  to the calls that Mr M made  to report this problem. On the first call Mr M 
made, he told BGI that water was flooding  his kitchen. I know that Mr M has told us more 
recently that there was just a damp  patch on the ceiling, and he rang again because  it 
started dripping. But I think that its likely,  having listened to the first call he made, that 
the problem was already more serious then. 
-And I think  that the plumber who did the first visit did fix a leak. We know now that this 
wasnt what was causing the problem with the kitchen ceiling, but he did do repairs. 
-I think, on balance,  that its likely that Mr Ms property  was already damaged by the time 
he made the first call to BGI. I think it would be very difficult  to say how much  of the 
damage had been  caused because the really  problematic leak wasnt repaired on the 
first visit, a different  leak got fixed instead.  And I dont think it would be fair to try to ask 
BGI to pay for repairs, when  certainly  some, and perhaps most or all, of this damage  had 
already been done before  BGI found out about this leak.
-That means that BGI wouldnt have to pay for repairs  to Mr Ms property, such  as 
replacement floorboards, which wouldnt be covered under this insurance.
-BGI also said that it thought that it had fixed the problem reasonably quickly.  It said that it 
had attended  promptly on the first call-out. It had looked in the area that Mr M told it the 
leak was coming from. 
-But we now know that, even though there  may have been a second leak in the 
bathroom, that wasnt the main problem. BGI didnt  fix that problem until three  days later.
-Mr M didnt say when he rang BGI that the water was coming from the bathroom. He just 
said it was coming  from upstairs.  
-BGI has said that when its plumber  attended, on 7 June,  he did repairs to a pipe in the 
bathroom. BGI said that if Mr M had told its plumber  that the leak was in the bathroom, 
thats where he would  look.  
Ref: DRN89401383-BGI hasnt shown me anything that suggests  that its plumber was actually  told that the 
leak was in the bathroom. And even if Mr M had said that, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for BGIs  plumber only to look where  Mr M had said the leak was. Mr M isnt 
an expert on this sort of problem. BGIs plumber is supposed to be the expert. And we 
now know that there was another leak somewhere else,  which was causing  the damp in 
Mr Ms kitchen.  
-Whatever BGI did on 7 June  didnt stop that leak, the one causing the damp  in the 
kitchen. Mr M rang BGI again  on 9 June.  Hes told us he tried to get in touch  with BGI on 
8 June too, but there was no answer. 
-When Mr M spoke  to BGI on 9 June, he said that the water was coming from the 
bathroom, and it was flooding the kitchen ceiling and elsewhere.  BGI agreed to send a 
plumber. That plumber  said that the leak was on the heating  pipes, and he wanted a gas 
engineer to look at the boiler.  That engineer came out the next day, and he didnt find 
any leak on the heating  pipes.  Theres also no suggestion from the gas engineer that 
there was actually anything wrong with Mr Ms central heating system. This gas engineer  
found the problematic leak, which was causing  the damp in the kitchen. It was under 
Mr Ms hallway.  A plumber finally did those repairs later that day. 
-So I think that BGI made two mistakes in this case. On its first visit, the plumber may 
have fixed a leak, but he didnt fix the problem which  was causing damp in the kitchen. I 
dont think that this plumber solved the whole problem. 
-On its second visit, BGI diagnosed the wrong  problem. An engineer  then visited  the next 
day, and found the problem leak. A plumber fixed that the same day. 
-Mr M is elderly,  and he has told us hes in poor health, with frequent visits to the hospital. 
BGI said it was treating him as a vulnerable person. Mr M had to have his water switched 
off for four days while  the leak which was making his kitchen damp continued. And I think  
that this leak only continued for so long because of mistakes made by BGI. So I agree 
with our investigators overall  conclusion, that BGI should pay some compensation in this 
case. And I also think that £300  would be a reasonable amount to pay for that. So thats  
what I currently propose to award.  
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr M accepted my decision. BGI wrote  to object.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
BGI said it didnt agree  that £300  was justified. It said it was being penalised for the 
diagnosis made  during  the second visit, and it didnt think it had misdiagnosed the problem 
then. The boiler  pressure gauge was showing zero, which usually indicates there is a leak 
from the heating  system.  That meant that a gas engineer had to go to Mr Ms home. 
But I dont think thats what caused  this delay.  BGI told us that its plumber, who attended on 
9 June, diagnosed a leak in the heating pipes.  There wasnt  a leak there.  The actual leak 
was on the water pipes,  and was eventually fixed by a plumber. It doesnt seem likely that 
Ref: DRN89401384BGI needed to send  a plumber, then a gas engineer, then another  plumber, before this 
repair could be done. 
BGI also said that the other reason it needed to send a gas engineer was because  the boiler 
pressure was zero. But it hasnt  commented  on whether this could just have been caused by 
Mr M shutting off the water in his house, to contain  the leak.  There doesnt  seem to have 
actually been  anything wrong  with Mr Ms central heating.  
For these reasons, it does  seem  as if BGI did misdiagnose the problem  on 9 June.
BGI said that my decision noted that Mr M said hed tried to contact it on 8 June  but there 
was no answer. It didnt believe that Mr M would have called and not had a call answered  on 
that day, particularly as this was going into the summer time, and its call numbers would be 
considerably less than in the winter. 
BGI said that it didnt  think it could  be held liable for the delay between 7 and 9 June as it 
was told about  the leak on 8 June.  (BGI had also said that it didnt speak to Mr M on 8 June, 
so its not clear whether BGI means  7 or 9 June  here.).
I accept what BGI says about likely  call volumes at this time. But I dont think  that whether 
Mr M called or not on 8 June is actually key to this decision. BGI attended Mr Ms home  on 
7 June. When it left, there was still a leak. It went back on 9 June, and its plumber does 
seem to me to have  misdiagnosed the problem then. It sent another agent out the next day, 
a gas engineer. That agent  correctly  diagnosed  the problem, but didnt fix it. A plumber 
attended later that day, and fixed the problem.
So I still think that most of the delay in resolving  this problem was caused by mistakes  that 
BGI made. And I still think compensation of £300  provides a fair and reasonable resolution 
to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £300 in 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8940138