K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about a further advance on his mortgage with The Mortgage  Works  (UK) Plc 
(TMW) that was transferred to him before he requested it.
background
Mr C arranged a further advance with TMW. He returned the necessary paperwork without 
saying when he wanted the advance  and instead put TBA. He assumed that TMW  would 
understand that when he wrote TBA he meant  to be advised and that he would tell TMW at 
some point in the future when he wanted  the advance. Instead TMW  transferred the further  
advance into his account in August 2018.  Mr C says he didnt need the money  until 
November 2018.
When the advance  was forwarded  to Mr C he phoned TMW and asked to return the money. 
TMW said this could  be done but there would be fees. Mr C didnt think this was fair. The 
fees amounted  to a £35 charge for returning  the money and a £20 charge for having  the 
money sent for a second time. So the total additional fee was £55.
Unfortunately TMW initially lost the form which had TBA on it. This further annoyed  Mr C. He 
felt TMW was dragging  its heels  over the complaint and decided to cancel  his mortgage 
direct debit so that he could in his words retain some control of the situation. 
TMWs first offer of compensation was to refund the £35 fee and pay him £15 compensation.
As Mr C had cancelled his direct debit  to pay his mortgage he fell into arrears and was 
chased by TMW for payment. Mr C didnt think this was fair as he felt he was being  treated 
like a criminal.  He felt that it was reasonable to withhold payment until he got the detailed  
breakdown of figures he had requested.
TMW sent Mr C another letter on 31 January 2019 saying a breakdown of arrears  had been 
requested to be sent to him, that it had submitted a credit file amendment  so no adverse 
information would be included on Mr Cs file as a result of its error and it paid a further £200 
compensation into Mr Cs account.
Mr C didnt think the compensation was enough particularly as he was still being chased  for 
arrears and given  the time he had spent. He was also unhappy  that he had a large arrears 
bill. He therefore brought the complaint to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld in either of her views. In her first 
view she said she had seen that TMW had offered to waive interest  on the further advance  
between the date of drawdown  and 6 December 2018 and that it had made  a credit 
adjustment for this period to reflect this. TMW had confirmed  that it would amend Mr Cs 
credit file to put him back in the position had these  issues not occurred, if Mr C repaid  the 
arrears. She also noted that TMW had paid Mr C £250. She thought this was fair.
Mr C disagreed with the first view. He pointed out he still hadnt received the arrears/interest 
figures despite asking  for it for many months. He also felt he should have an apology from 
TMW and that £250 compensation  and a small amount of interest refund isnt acceptable for 
all the grief TMW had caused him.
Ref: DRN81332492The adjudicator issued a second  view and with it she sent an apology from TMW and 
statements provided by TMW. She felt that the new apology  and breakdown along with the 
financial compensation TMW had paid and removing the credit file impact was a fair 
resolution to Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with the statements provided  by TMW  as they were  purely  debit/credit  
amounts and had no workings of how and when the interest element of the additional 
borrowing had been added to his account.  
In addition he felt he should be compensated for the loss he had suffered following being 
unable to remortgage another property due to his credit file having adverse information 
recorded. He didnt expect this to happen as in its January 2019 letter TMW  said it had 
submitted a credit file amendment.
The adjudicator pointed out that TMW had amended its offer in March 2019  and required 
that Mr C repay the arrears in full before it would amend the credit file.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I noted  it was agreed  by both parties  that TMW  shouldnt  have 
sent the further advance to Mr C when it did. It was also agreed that TMW hadnt  handled  
the complaint  that followed well.
When Mr C noticed the error he asked  TMW to put things right. It told him he would have to 
pay a fee to return the further advance. Mr C didnt think this was fair and refused.  I said I 
understood Mr Cs position here.
Mr C went on to cancel his direct  debit (which paid both the main  mortgage and the further  
advance) within a few weeks of the error.  I said this might have been  a reasonable response 
if Mr C was worried he wouldnt be able to make  the new monthly payments whilst things 
were being  sorted out, but this didnt appear  to be the case here given the affordability of the 
new payments would have been  assessed before the further  advance  was agreed. I said I 
thought cancelling the direct debit was wrong and a disproportionate response to what  had 
happened. I therefore didnt think I should  consider awarding any compensation for any of 
the inconvenience, distress or cost caused which flowed  from the cancelling the direct debit 
and thereby getting into arrears on his mortgage.
Mr C had told us that TMW had removed the adverse information from his credit file. I 
therefore didnt  need to consider whether Mr Cs credit file should  be corrected. I noted this 
would have been a difficult decision to reach given that I didnt think  he should have 
cancelled his direct  debit and fallen into arrears.
I noted the information TMW  had provided Mr C regarding the amount he owes  was 
comparable to the information ordinarily  provided  in an annual statement. Calculations of 
interest are computer generated and highly  complex  particularly if they are for daily interest 
and/or repayment  mortgages. I didnt think it would be fair to ask TMW  to provide more  
information than it had already. If Mr C wanted to, I said, he could employ a specialist 
accountant to check the figures and provide a report if they are inaccurate. This service 
could then look at that report. I did say, however, I had seen nothing to make me doubt the 
figures were  correct.
Ref: DRN81332493I thought the compensation  paid to Mr C already  fairly  compensated him for the annoyance 
caused to him by the error  and the poor handling of the complaint by TMW.  As I said before, 
I didnt think TMW  should  compensate  Mr C for anything that flowed from his cancelling his 
direct debit. So the fact he couldnt  remortgage another  property because  of adverse 
information on his credit file due to his mortgage arrears wasnt something I would look to 
compensate him for. Nor would I compensate him for being chased  for the arrears.
responses to my provisional  decision
TMW agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr C did not. He didnt  think  Id grasped  the time and effort he had taken to try and get TMW  
to take his complaint seriously.  He also disagrees  with my comments  that interest 
calculations are difficult to carry out for a large  organisation  such  as TMW. He wonders if it 
cannot provide  him with such a calculation,  how he can have faith in its ability  to charge him 
correctly over the mortgage  term.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration with TMW but I do think  for the reasons set out fully in my 
provisional decision - that it has compensated him fairly for its error and poor response 
following the error. As I said in my provisional decision, I think  most of Mr Cs annoyance 
flows from what happened following his decision to stop making  his mortgage payments. 
And as I said in my provisional decision I dont think he was right to do this.
I think the calculations  he has been provided are enough to give him reassurance  that thing  
have been calculated correctly. Again as I said in my provisional decision,  he can seek  
expert accounting advice on this if he remains concerned. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint as I think The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc has already done 
enough.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8133249