K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited unfairly charged him an 
additional premium  for his car insurance policy.
background 
Mr C said that on 13 September 2017  his car was hit while  parked  and unattended. Mr C 
reported the incident to the police to see if the other driver responsible  could be found. On 
15 September 2017, Admiral sent Mr C their policy  renewal offer.  The policy  renewal was 
due on 11 October 2017.
On 7 October 2017, Mr C called Admiral to discuss the renewal. During that call Admiral 
asked Mr C if there had been  any accidents or incidents regardless of fault in the past three  
years. Mr C said there hadnt.  Admiral then agreed a reduced  premium for the renewal 
policy.
In December 2017, Mr C called Admiral to discuss the September incident  and he said the 
police had told him to tell Admiral. Admiral then amended  the policy with the new information  
and asked for an additional  premium  of around £500. Mr C didnt think  that was fair so he 
complained.
Admiral didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr C didn't think  that was fair and brought  his complaint 
to us. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint.  She felt that Admiral hadnt  treated 
Mr C fairly.  She said Admiral shouldnt have  asked for an additional premium. As Admiral 
didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I must decide if Admiral  have dealt with Mr C in a fair and reasonable way.
premium calculation
Mr C believes  the increase to his premium was unfair given it was based on an accident that 
wasnt his fault.  It might  help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator.  That means it's 
not my role to tell an insurer  how much they can charge for their policies. And our service  
generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they treat customers 
with similar  circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what  they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk.
Mr Cs premium did go up significantly, so I can understand why he was concerned.  But just 
because Mr Cs premium has increased, I don't think that means that Admiral have treated 
him unfairly.  Admiral provided me with information  to show how Mr Cs premium  has 
increased. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with Mr C. But having 
looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Admiral  treated Mr C in the same way as they would 
other policyholders  in similar circumstances. So I think they calculated  his premium 
reasonably.
Ref: DRN88858942When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Mr C thinks it was unfair for Admiral  to charge a higher premium  
because his car was involved  in an accident  that wasnt his fault. But each insurer  will have 
their own methods of calculating risk. Im aware that many insurers  say that statistically 
policyholders involved  in non-fault accidents are at a higher risk of being involved in fault 
accidents in the future.  As insurance  is essentially  an assessment of risk, I dont think theres 
anything wrong  with insurers considering whether or not certain  individuals fall into higher 
risk groupings, so I cant say Mr C has been singled out or treated differently to others  in 
similar circumstances. 
charging the additional premium
Admiral have suggested that what  Mr C did amounted to, what is known in the insurance 
industry, a misrepresentation. And theres  specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do in 
such a situation.  It says that where the misrepresentation was careless, insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or 
apply other  exclusions  or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied).  But if the 
consumer isn't happy with that approach, they can cancel  the policy themselves.
Where the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless,  insurers may avoid the policy  (treat  
it as though it never came into existence) and need not return the premiums.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, although we think  
its fair for the insurer  to give the policyholder  the option of them paying the additional 
premium for the insurer to then settle the claim in full instead of settling the claim 
proportionately. But that can only happen  if the policyholder is happy with that.
But while CIDRA  gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy  where there has been a 
careless misrepresentation,  we think its fair for an insurer to explain to the consumer theres 
a problem and give them the option of paying the additional premium  in order to keep the 
policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy themselves. Thats  because  the insurer  
cancelling the policy will have serious consequences on the policyholder  because  they will 
have to declare  it when  they want to take out insurance later on.
In Mr Cs case, I think the question he was asked  whether  or not there had been any 
accidents or incidents in the last three  years   was clear, and Mr Cs answer was incorrect.  
So there has been a misrepresentation. Admiral  have  said that Mr Cs misrepresentation 
was purposeful. I think its fair to say that Admiral believe, to use the wording of CIDRA, 
that the misrepresentation was deliberate. If they felt it was deliberate they could have 
avoided the policy and kept the premiums, but they didnt do that. Instead they kept the 
policy going and asked for an additional premium. Even if the misrepresentation was 
Ref: DRN88858943deliberate, which I dont think it was, under CIDRA Admiral wasnt entitled to ask for an 
additional premium.
Admiral have said that because Mr C works in the legal sector  we would expect him to be 
fully aware of the terms of his policy and to clearly understand the question we asked  him. 
But I dont think Mr C is an expert  in insurance  matters. And, as is widely  known, 
unfortunately many people dont read policy documents  or terms and conditions.  But I have 
already said that I think the question was clear  and Mr Cs answer was incorrect.  Had he 
deliberately tried to mislead Admiral I dont  think  he would have called them in December to 
discuss the incident and thereby expose his misrepresentation. So I dont believe it was 
deliberate. I have also considered whether or not the misrepresentation was reckless. Under 
CIDRA a reckless misrepresentation gives insurers the same remedies as a deliberate  
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA says:
(2) A qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer
(a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it
was untrue or misleading, and [my emphasis]
(b) knew that the matter  to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
CIDRA requires both (a) and (b) to be present  for there to be a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation. And I think, looking at Mr Cs reaction of surprise  and dismay  at being 
asked for an additional premium  for an accident  he wasnt at fault for, he didnt believe a 
non-fault accident was relevant to Admirals consideration of risk and calculation of premium. 
In my experience, Mr Cs belief and reaction  is prevalent  even amongst experienced drivers  
who have had insurance for many years. Policyholders often dont expect a non-fault 
accident to be relevant  or to have  any influence on premiums, which is why some  dont 
declare it. I therefore dont  think Mr Cs misrepresentation was deliberate  or reckless.  I think  
it was careless.
The policy in question  has since lapsed, although I understand Mr C renewed his policy with 
Admiral again. I also understand that Admiral  are still pursuing  Mr C for the additional 
premium, although  I expect they have put that on hold pending the resolution of this 
complaint. Given the remedies under  CIDRA  were that Admiral could deal with any claims 
under the policy  during the relevant  policy  year on a proportionate basis, or that the policy 
could be cancelled  and I understand neither happened  I require Admiral to stop pursing 
Mr C for the additional premium because that is something they arent  allowed  to do under 
CIDRA.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require Admiral  Insurance  
Company Limited  to stop pursuing Mr C for the additional premium.
Ref: DRN88858944Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019. 
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8885894