K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that problems with Nationwide Building Societys systems prevented him 
from making payments  to place bets online which caused him financial loss.
background
Mr J attempted to make several payments to an online  gambling  account in November 2018 
but the payments didnt go through. When he contacted Nationwide, it told him it was having 
some technical difficulties that might have affected  the payments. Mr J was upset because  
he wasnt able to place  all the bets hed planned  that day and, as a result, felt hed lost out. 
So he complained to Nationwide. 
Nationwide initially accepted responsibility for the failed payments and agreed to refund the 
fees Mr J had incurred  because hed had to use his credit card to make deposits. It also 
offered him £100 as compensation for the inconvenience caused and a further  £50 as 
compensation for the delays responding to his concerns. But it said it couldnt compensate  
him for other  fees without  evidence or for potential lost winnings. Mr J wasnt happy  with this 
so he came to this service. 
On further investigation, Nationwide provided  evidence that showed the payments hadnt 
failed because of its error  but were returned by the merchant. In light of this, our adjudicator 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. So Mr J asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular, Ive looked  at a screenshot  
of the records of the transactions on the day in question provided by Nationwide.  These  
show an ISO code message of 0210 indicating  that the payment was authorised by 
Nationwide and 0420 which shows a reversal of the payment by the merchant. Therefore, I 
dont think the technical problems Nationwide was experiencing on that day caused Mr Js 
payments to be declined.
Nationwide refunded credit card fees and paid Mr J a total of £150  as compensation when it 
thought its technical problems might  have been  to blame. But the new evidence  shows that 
Nationwide wasnt at fault though its communication couldve been better. In all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Nationwide  needs to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019..
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8924781