K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains about how Allianz Insurance Plc dealt with her claim for her horses 
treatment and that this affected the horses  health.
background
Ms H had equine insurance  for her horse with Allianz. Under  the policy terms a condition is 
only covered for 12 months, starting  from the date clinical signs were  first noticed,  or the 
date any injury was sustained.  After 12 months  cover for the condition is excluded under the 
policy. 
Ms H made a claim  in October 2018 for lameness in her horses right forelimb. This was 
recorded as a superior digital flexor  tendon  (SDFT)  right dorsal  cannon/proximal cannon  
injury. This was the first claim Ms H had made  so Allianz requested  a full clinical history.  
This included the following entries:
"20.12.16 - lame LF, digital flexor tendon sheath  effusion, with repeatable pain  
response and thickening at level of check ligament, very lame today."
"25.08.17 - LF swelling, sound at walk, lame  in trot."
"22.08.18 - swelling carpal  sheath LF and lameness RF. still lame LF from tendon 
problem."
"27.09.18 - SOFT  core lesion."
Based on this history  Allianz placed  an exclusion on Ms Hs policy from 
6 September 2017 for tendon and ligament disorders,  both forelimbs  and said her claim 
should have been declined. But they recorded  the claim as payable,  even though  no 
payment was made as the claim  was less than her £500 policy excess. Allianz  then paid two 
claims for further treatment arising  from the October 2018 injury. Allianz said that when they 
realised these claims fell under the exclusion, they agree to cover  them,  but wouldnt cover 
any further claims for this condition. 
On 16 March 2019 Allianz emailed Ms H to advise  her of this. But the email  was sent to an 
old email address, so Ms H didnt receive  it and went ahead  with further treatment for her 
horse on 20 March 2019. Ms H made  a further claim for this treatment which was declined.  
When Ms H contacted Allianz  to query this, she was told it had been  declined due to the 
policy exclusion.
Ms H raised a complaint and as part of their investigation Allianz asked Ms Hs vet
to confirm the horse had been  clear  of ligament or tendon problems for six months and had 
been sound and in full work over this period. The vet replying saying that the horses current 
condition was unrelated to any earlier issues, but Allianz said they couldnt review  the 
exclusion as they hadnt received the information  they requested. 
But as Ms H hadnt received the email  advising her they wouldnt cover  any further claims, 
Allianz agreed to cover  the cost of the treatment  on 20 March 2019, but said they wouldnt 
Ref: DRN85001662cover any further claims. The letter advising Ms H that her claim had been paid stated that 
the condition claimed for wasnt related to the exclusion. 
The horse required further treatment on 5 July 2019.  Ms H called Allianz on 8 July 2019 to 
discuss the further treatment her horse  needed.  The person she spoke to confirmed the 
maximum benefit available  under her policy, her excess and how long she had left to claim 
for this condition. No reference was made to the exclusion or to further treatment not being 
covered. Because of this Allianz agreed to meet this further claim, and Ms H was advised  
that no further claims would be covered.
Sadly, Ms H had to make the decision to have her horse put to sleep on 12 July 2019.
She submitted a further claim, which was initially declined. But in light of the service  issues  
shed experienced. Allianz reviewed the clinical history and agreed to narrow  the exclusion 
to tendon and ligament  disorders, left forelimb. So, this claim was also paid. 
Allianz accepted  there had been ongoing issues with the level of service Ms H had received 
and upheld this part of her complaint offering her £300 compensation.
Ms H feels  that her horses health  was affected by the ongoing issues  shed experienced. 
Allianz contacted  her vet who provided a report which said they considered it unlikely that 
any additional or alternative  treatment would have altered  the eventual  outcome. So this part 
of the complaint wasnt upheld.
Ms H was unhappy with Allianzs response  to her complaint and complained to our service.  
Our investigator initially thought Allianz  had added the exclusion because  they were saying 
there was an underlying  disorder linking the lameness in the horses forelimbs, which he felt  
might be unfair. But what they were  saying was that lameness in one forelimb had led to 
greater reliance on the other, which had contributed and eventually led to lameness in the 
other forelimb.
Our investigator discussed  this with Ms H who asked  him to speak to her vet and get his 
opinion. He did this and her vet agreed  that lameness in one forelimb could contribute  to 
lameness in the other. But he questioned in practice how often this happened. He also said 
as the whole musculo-skeletal structure is linked, insurers  could use any musculo-skeletal  
injury to add an exclusion  to a policy. And he questioned the fairness  of making  a decision 
during a claim, as treatment options would be considered on the basis of whether funding  
was available.
Our investigator considered this to be a reasonable comment, but in this case, as were 
dealing with two forelimbs,  he felt it was reasonable to suggest  that an issue  with one could  
lead to a problem with the other.  So he didnt think the exclusion Allianz  added  to the policy  
was unfair.  And although Allianz  paid some claims incorrectly, he didnt think  this made it 
unreasonable for them not to pay related claims, regardless of the previous mistakes  that 
had been made. 
Our investigator accepted that how Allianz dealt with Ms Hs claims added to the distress 
and inconvenience  she experienced  at a difficult time. And he said she was looking for clarity 
and didnt get it. But as Allianz hadnt  asked for any of the payments to be refunded, when 
they could have done, he felt the £300  compensation theyd offered was fair. He said the 
main thing Allianz got wrong was how they dealt with the exclusion, rather  than the exclusion 
Ref: DRN85001663itself being unfair. And the evidence  confirmed it was likely  that the horse was always  going 
to be put to sleep  due to the severity  of her injuries.  
Ms H wasnt  happy with our investigators  opinion and the case has come to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H is concerned about two issues:-
How Allianz handled  her claims
The impact this had to the treatment her horse received and its quality of life
When Ms H submitted her claim to Allianz in October 2018 the horses veterinary  history  
showed it had previous  problems with its left forelimb. Ive considered  what Allianzs vet has 
said and the comments  from the treating vet. I understand the concerns  expressed by the 
treating vet, that the whole musculo-skeletal  system  is linked, and this could  lead to 
unrelating claims being declined.  But in this case,  were dealing with a problem with the 
horses forelimbs, and the treating vet has agreed that extra  weight resulting from lameness 
in one forelimb could  contribute to lameness in the other forelimb. So, I cant  say that Allianz 
acted unfairly in adding an exclusion to Ms Hs policy. 
Allianz accept that there have been errors  in how theyve dealt with Ms Hs claim. This was 
clearly a difficult and distressing time for her, and she needed  to know  whether claims for her 
horses treatment would be paid. So, I need  to consider the impact Allianzs errors have had 
on Ms H.
Having added the exclusion to Ms Hs policy Allianz  then paid two further  claims arising from 
the October  2018  claim, although  they believed they fell under the exclusion. But they failed 
to advise Ms H they wouldnt pay any further  claims, as they used out of date contact details. 
Not knowing the decision Allianz had reached Ms H submitted a further claim on 
20 March 2019,  which was declined. After Ms H complained Allianz agreed to cover the cost 
of this treatment. But even though they told her they wouldnt cover any further claims, she 
was told the condition shed claimed  for wasnt related  to the exclusion. Theres  a clear 
conflict between saying  we wont cover any further  claims,  and the condition  youve  claimed 
for isnt related  to the exclusion. So, I think it was reasonable for Ms H to believe she was 
covered for ongoing treatment for her horses left forelimb.
And when  in July 2019 Ms H called Allianz to discuss further treatment, no mention was 
made of the exclusion, so she was led to believe  the left forelimb was still covered. Once 
again Allianz agreed to pay the claim Ms H submitted because of the misinformation shed 
been given.
Ms H had to make  the sad decision to have her horse put to sleep later in July 2019. Allianz 
initially declined the claim she submitted  relating to this. But because of the multiple errors 
theyd made  they agreed to restrict the exclusion to the horses left forelimb  and paid this 
claim.
Ref: DRN85001664So financially  Ms H hasnt  lost out as a result of the errors made  by Allianz. But shes had a 
very poor customer journey.
Ms H also believes that the uncertainty about  whether her claims would be paid has 
impacted on the treatment  her horse received,  and its quality of life. While Allianz made  
errors in the handling of her claims, the problem was not communicating  the decisions theyd 
made about restricting her cover  to Ms H. 
I appreciate that Ms H, after earlier claims had initially been declined, may have wondered 
what would  happen  when the next claim was submitted. But based on what  shed been told 
by Allianz I think her claims appeared to be covered.
Ms H has told us that but for uncertainty about  whether claims would be paid, there were 
other treatments that could have been  tried. The treating vet has confirmed that there were 
other treatment options, including  surgery available  which Ms H couldnt afford because 
cover wasnt  provided. But ultimately,  he believes that regardless of such further  treatment, 
the horse would  have  been put to sleep, because it had a severe injury with a poor 
prognosis.
I understand that Ms H wanted to do the best for her horse  and that how Allianz dealt with 
her claims was distressing for her. But Ive said I think  it was reasonable for Allianz to add an 
exclusion to her policy in October 2018,  based on the horses veterinary history.  Allianz 
amended the wording  of the exclusion to limit it to the horses  left forelimb,  but this was only 
because of the poor customer  service Ms H had experienced, due to the errors theyd made.  
If these errors hadnt been made,  I dont  think the exclusion would have been  amended, and 
none of the treatment on the horses right forelimb would have been covered. So Im not 
persuaded that how Allianz handled  the claim has impacted the horses  health.  
Allianz have paid all of Ms Hs claim and taking this into account  I think  the £300 theyve 
offered her in compensation for the errors  they made is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Ms Hs complaint 
against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8500166