K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably when dealing with her mortgage  application. She wants  matters  put right.
background
Ms J wanted  a new mortgage product  with Halifax. She applied online and said that her 
application was rejected  as she had entered a higher property value than the one Halifax  
had in its system. Ms J contacted Halifax, who arranged an update  of the valuation on its 
system without charge  to Ms J. She felt that the updated valuation was too low. Ms J said 
that Halifax unreasonably refused to accept  the evidence she provided  or let her appeal,  and 
this caused her financial loss (as the mortgage  she wanted wasnt available).
Ms J complained to Halifax.  It said that the updated valuation was actually lower than the 
original valuation and it had told Ms J this. Halifax  said that it offered  to leave the original  
valuation in place,  and said that it needed  more persuasive evidence  from Ms J to get 
another valuation  (it set out what it needed). It then looked at more  evidence from Ms J and 
said it wasnt sufficient.
Ms J complained to us and said that the valuation hadnt taken into account all the work 
shed done on the property. The adjudicators view was that Halifaxs view that the evidence 
from Ms J wasnt sufficient to justify another valuation was fair and reasonable. He noted 
that none of the properties  relied upon  by Ms J had been sold recently.
Ms J disagreed. She said she didnt have access to more recent information and Halifax 
should be able to access it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the core of the 
complaint, which  is about the valuation of the property. Complaints handling isnt an activity 
regulated by the service, though I can look at whether Halifax  has generally acted fairly and 
reasonably.
Lenders need to establish  the value of a property in order to properly consider a mortgage 
application. The process which they use to do so is a matter  for their commercial  judgement  
and isnt something with which this service  can interfere. Halifax  used a computer system to 
establish the initial value; Ms J disputed it and it was in my view fair and reasonable for 
Halifax to ask an expert valuer to review the issue at its cost.  
But the expert view was that the property was worth less than initially thought. Halifax  
offered to let Ms J use the initial valuation, which is more than fair and reasonable in my 
view, particularly given  the potential risk to Halifax if the property had been over-valued.
Ref: DRN86060152I agree  Ms J was at first told that was the end of the matter, but its clear Halifax did look at 
the extra evidence  she submitted of other  property  sales in her area. But I think  Halifax was 
acting fairly  and reasonably in saying that the evidence wasnt good  enough  to justify 
another valuation   the evidence from Ms J wasnt recent and it wasnt  sufficient evidence 
that the properties were similar to Ms Js. And its relevant that Ms J and Halifax  were very 
far apart on the issue  of how much the property was likely to be worth;  it was unlikely in my 
view that the parties would ever find a common ground.  Its fair and reasonable for Halifax  to 
rely on expert valuer  advice in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or reject my decision before 
9 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8606015