K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged him an 
additional premium  for his commercial van insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
In October  2017, Mr M took out van insurance online with Advantage through a broker.  Later  
on Advantage found out that Mr M had two non-fault claims in the past five years that he 
hadnt disclosed to them when taking out the policy. One of the claims was for a windscreen 
which didnt affect  his premium. But the other,  when  added to his policy,  led to an additional 
premium of £69.22.
When Advantage spoke  to Mr M about  it they said he could pay the additional premium for 
the policy to continue or he could cancel it. Mr M said he would call back  later and cancel as 
he didnt think it was fair that he should pay more for an accident that wasnt his fault. But 
Mr M called back  a few days later and paid the additional premium and continued with the 
policy. He also complained.
Advantage looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. Mr M didn't think  that was fair and 
brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He felt that 
Advantage hadnt treated  Mr M fairly.  He suggested that Advantage should refund Mr M the 
£69.22 additional premium he paid with interest,  together with £25 compensation for the 
inconvenience he experienced. As Advantage didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 18 February 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr M, but Im not intending to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr M has made a number  of detailed  points  and Ive considered  all 
those carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what I consider to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if Advantage  have dealt with Mr M in a fair and 
reasonable way.
I should say for completeness  that when he paid the additional premium to continue 
with the policy,  he was also charged, and paid, a £25 administrative fee by the 
broker. That fee had nothing to do with Advantage as it was charged by the broker.  
But, in any event, the broker later refunded that fee to Mr M.
premium calculation
Mr M believes the increase to his premium was excessive and unnecessary  given the 
claim he hadnt disclosed, that led to the additional premium,  wasnt  his fault as his 
van was hit while it was parked.  It might help if I explain that we're not the industry 
regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they can charge  for 
their policies. And our service generally takes  the view that, providing they treat 
Ref: DRN82219302people fairly  - that is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way 
- insurers  are entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order  to cover a risk.
Mr Ms premium  did go up, so I can understand why he was concerned.  But just 
because his premium  increased, I don't think that means that Advantage have 
treated him unfairly. Advantage provided me with information to show how Mr Ms 
premium has increased. That information is commercially sensitive so I can't  share it 
with Mr M. But having looked at it carefully, Im satisfied that Advantage treated Mr M 
in the same way as it would other  policyholders  in similar circumstances.  So I think  
they calculated  his premium reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders 
will make a claim and how much  they will have to pay out for those. And its not down 
to me to tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, 
nor how to go about those  assessments. Different  insurers will have different views 
on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of 
commercial judgement, balancing risk against the need to compete with other  
policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Mr M thinks it was unfair  for Advantage to charge a higher 
premium, because he was involved in an accident that wasnt  his fault. But each 
insurer will have their own methods of calculating risk. Im also aware that many  
insurers say that statistically policyholders involved in non-fault accidents are at a 
higher risk of being involved in fault accidents in the future. As insurance is 
essentially an assessment of risk, I dont  think theres anything wrong with insurers 
considering whether or not certain  individuals fall into higher risk groupings.  So I cant 
say Mr M has been singled out or treated differently to others in similar 
circumstances. 
failing to disclose  the non-fault accident
Under the Insurance Act 2015  Mr M had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk 
when he bought his policy. That means he needed  to tell Advantage about anything  
that would  affect  their decision  about whether to offer him cover and on what  terms. 
Mr M has told us that when he completed the online application for his policy,  the 
question about  past claims wasnt clear.  We think insurers questions  have to be 
clear. Advantage have  provided me with a screenshot that shows  they asked Mr M to 
Only tell us about  accidents or claims from the past five years.  Mr M did disclose 
one accident where  he was at fault, but he didnt disclose the non-fault accident that 
led to the premium increase. I think the question  asked  was clear as it was asking for 
information about all accidents or claims from the past five years irrespective of who 
was at fault. 
Given the clear question he was asked when  taking out the policy, I feel he should 
have declared  the accident he didnt. Had he done that Advantage would  have 
charged him a higher premium.
charging the additional premium
As Mr M didn't answer Advantages question fully he didn't make a fair presentation 
of risk. And in those  circumstances under the Insurance Act, where the insurer  would 
Ref: DRN82219303have charged a higher premium had they known of the information that wasnt  
disclosed, the insurer can tell the policyholder  that they will settle any future claims 
on a proportionate basis. But if the consumer  isn't happy with that approach,  we think 
its fair to allow them  to cancel the policy themselves.
But the insurer cant simply  charge an additional  premium. But we think  its fair for the 
insurer to give the policyholder the option of paying  the additional premium allowing 
the insurer to settle any future claim in full instead  of settling the claim 
proportionately. 
We think its fair for an insurer to explain to the consumer theres a problem and give 
them the option of paying the additional  premium in order to keep the policy  going  or 
otherwise to cancel  the policy themselves. Thats because  the insurer  cancelling  the 
policy will have serious consequences on the policyholder because  they will have to 
declare it when they want to take out insurance  later on.
In Mr Ms case, when he was told he would be charged an additional premium  he 
said he wasnt happy with that. So Advantage told him that he could cancel the policy  
if he wanted to, which  I think was reasonable. But Mr M later decided to continue with 
the existing policy by paying the additional  premium.  I think if Mr M was unhappy with 
the additional premium he could have  taken up Advantages  offer to cancel the policy 
and he could have  looked elsewhere  for alternative cover, but he didnt do that. So I 
think Advantage dealt  with him fairly.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Neither Advantage nor Mr M 
commented. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.  
 
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN8221930