K820x#14complaint
Mr G is represented. His representative says Fortrade Limited (Fortrade) should  
compensate him, mainly  for the following:
Granting him an inappropriate  Contracts  for Differences (CFD) trading account  
which he opened in July 2017  and misguiding  his unsuccessful  application for a 
professional trading  account in 2018.
Misleading him about reactivating a Netflix  based trade(s) that was closed out in 
July 2018 and breaching its promise to reactivate the trade(s) before 1 August 2018, 
despite him meeting Fortrades condition by making deposits  into his account.
Giving him unsuitable trading advice and advice to change his citizenship for 
regulation related  purposes.
Wrongly applying leverage restrictions, applied by the European Securities and 
Markets Authority (ESMA)  from 1 August 2018, to the trade(s) despite  them  existing 
before the application date. Fortrade also gave him poor notice about  the restrictions.
background
Mr Gs representative says his claim is valued  at around 89,000 Euros.  Fortrade disputes the 
complaint and has rejected this claim for compensation. As a gesture of goodwill and in 
recognition of his value  as a client, it offered him 15,000 Euros. Mr Gs representative 
declined this offer and made a counter offer of 53,000 Euros. Fortrade  has rejected this 
counter offer and its offer of 15,000 Euros appears to remain.
In the main,  Fortrade  says:
Mr Gs retail account was opened  in July 2017  based on his agreement with the 
terms for the account (including risk warnings), and by December 2018  he had 
carried out 202 trades  with a total volume of 154.40 lots. He received two further risk 
warnings in February and July 2018  in which he was told to seriously reconsider CFD 
trading as it might not be appropriate for him  or to continue  such trading only if he 
fully understood  and accepted the warnings (and risks of trading CFDs).
It engaged  with Mr G in pursuing  a professional account in 2018  but, upon  proper  
assessment of his application, the upgrade to such an account  was deemed 
inappropriate and his application was declined. He was never  guaranteed  the 
upgrade and Fortrade sought to be helpful  by assisting his application because he 
wanted to find a way to avoid the ESMA  restrictions in his retail account.
Mr G was forewarned about  the risk of his Netflix positions  being closed out due to a 
margin breach. They  were subsequently  closed out for that reason and because  he 
took no action  in response  to the warning. The idea of reactivating the positions was 
discussed only as a discretionary option. It was neither promised to him nor 
guaranteed. The need to meet margin requirements remained, so the deposits he 
made into the account in this respect  sought to help his chances for the possible 
reactivation. However, the markets movement  and insufficiency of margin  in his 
account meant reactivation of the positions  posed the risk of being quickly  followed 
by another margin  closure and loss to Mr G. For this reason, the discretionary  
reactivation was not granted.
Fortrade is an execution only broker. It did and does not give trading advice. It can 
guide clients on how to trade  but a distinction  exists between  doing that and advising 
on specific trades  it did not do the latter for Mr G. It also did not suggest any advice 
to him about  changing his citizenship.
Ref: DRN80576822On 17 July 2018 Fortrade gave Mr G ample  and detailed notice about the incoming  
ESMA restrictions (applicable from 1 August 2018). It included a list of instruments to 
which it would not be applying the restrictions retroactively and notice that for trades 
in all other instruments the restrictions would be applied retroactively if they remained 
opened on 29 July 2018. The facts that followed did not conflict  with the details given 
to Mr G in the notice.
One of our senior  investigators looked  into the complaint. She broadly agreed with most  of 
the points made by Fortrade. She concluded, in the context of Fortrades goodwill offer, that 
she had  largely seen  insufficient evidence that Fortrade did anything  wrong.  She was 
also not persuaded that Fortrade  had caused Mr G a tangible trading loss in  the matters 
raised  but she considered that Fortrade  should  have  refrained from encouraging him to 
apply for a professional account,  given  the circumstances at the time. In this respect, she 
considered that a nominal award  of £400 could be made to Mr G but Fortrades  offer to him 
of 15,000 Euros exceeds such  an award  and any award she could recommend.
Mr Gs representative disagreed with this outcome. He retained Mr Gs assertions in the 
relevant matters and said a minimum of 40,000 Euros  (the total deposited into the account in 
pursuit of reactivation  of the Netflix positions) is due to him in settlement. The matter  was 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Appropriateness
Appropriateness is assessed  on the basis of information from a client  to a firm about whether 
the client has sufficient  knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the 
service or product offered  by the firm. A firm is not required to notify its client  if the 
assessment concludes that its service or product  is appropriate. However  it is obliged  to 
warn its client  if the assessment concludes that its service or product is not appropriate  
and its warning can be in a standardised format. If, despite the warning, the client wishes  to 
proceed with the service  or product the firm has discretion to do so  having regard to the 
circumstances.
Mr Gs representative concedes that he was obliged to agree the terms of the account in the 
course of opening  it in 2017. Available  evidence suggests that those terms, in 2017,  began 
with a standardised and prominent warning about potential inappropriateness of the account. 
In addition, there is evidence of two repetitions of essentially the same warning in February  
and July 2018. The senior investigators view quoted  parts  of the contents  of all three 
warnings so I will not repeat them. Essentially, the first gave clear notice of the high risks 
and potential inappropriateness of CFD trading; the second and third repeated notice of high 
risks; the second and third also featured more specific references to questionnaire based 
information which led to the conclusion that CFD trading  could be inappropriate for Mr G.
Overall and on the balance of available evidence, I do not consider that Fortrade did 
anything wrong  in the assessment of appropriateness related to Mr Gs account. He was 
given warnings and proceeded  with/maintained the account regardless. After those warnings 
and in the absence of evidence of circumstances that should have prompted  Fortrade  to 
decline his initial application or to withdraw his account, I do not consider that Fortrade  was 
Ref: DRN80576823obliged to do so. It had the discretion  which it appears to have used  to grant, and to 
allow Mr G to retain, the account.
Professional Trading Account
I have not seen evidence that an upgrade  to this account was promised or guaranteed  prior 
to or in the course  of Mr G applying for it.
The senior investigator made a valid point about the inherent conflict in Mr Gs assertion that 
the retail account  was inappropriate  for him coupled with the assertion that he was unfairly 
denied a professional account.  I agree, he cannot  reasonably assert the former  whilst also 
asserting the latter, given  that a professional account would have exposed him to higher 
risks. 
I also consider this point  relevant to my agreement with the senior  investigators  view that 
Fortrade ought not to have encouraged the upgrade application. Having previously issued 
Mr G with notices about  the potential inappropriateness of the retail account  it is arguably 
odd that it should then encourage  or assist him to apply for a professional account. I note 
and understand  Fortrades reference to Mr G having become notably experienced and 
familiar with CFD trading by the time of the application in 2018  but two of the three 
inappropriateness warnings were also issued in 2018. In any case, the application was 
unsuccessful and Mr Gs account was not upgraded, so he was not unduly  exposed to 
higher trading risks. 
A case could be made for the £400 nominal award  mentioned by the senior investigator but, 
like she said, Fortrades offer to Mr G of 15,000 Euros significantly exceeds such an award, 
so there  is no reasonable basis to ask Fortrade  to do or offer any more.
Reactivation of the Netflix positions
There is sufficient evidence to conclude that this matter is as Fortrade has described  the 
idea of reactivation was based on its discretion to do so in the correct circumstances; it was 
neither promised nor guaranteed; and circumstances  turned  out not to be conducive to 
proceed with the idea.
There is evidence in correspondence between both parties that the idea was neither 
promised nor guaranteed. In an email to Mr G on 18 July 2018 Fortrade described the idea 
to him as an option to reactivate and said he first had to address the margin requirement 
issue before  it could consider what it  can do and find the best solution. In an email from 
Mr G to Fortrade thereafter he pleaded for approval  of the reactivation option and says I 
believe that you and the company can approve  this and it really would mean a lot to me and 
would strengthen our business cooperation. I am aware that  I am looking for a lot, but I 
am asking  you once again for help . Such  expressions conflict  with the notion of an 
agreed/promised/guaranteed reactivation  and they support  Fortrades explanation that the 
idea was only an option to be considered at its discretion.
I do not consider  that Fortrades decision to decline the reactivation was unreasonable. 
There appears to have been  a risk at the time, despite the deposits made by Mr G and with 
some relevance to the movement of the market, that such  reactivation could have worsened 
Mr Gs financial  position and caused him losses. In this context,  it stands to reason that 
circumstances were  not favourable to Fortrade  exercising its discretion  positively.  
Ref: DRN80576824In terms of loss arising from the initial margin closure of the Netflix  positions, Fortrade cannot 
reasonably be held responsible for that. It forewarned Mr G about the risk of margin  closure 
at a time when he could  have taken action to prevent it. He took no such action and incurred 
the closure on the basis of what appears  to have been a valid margin breach. His 
representative says he was induced into taking no action because  of Fortrades alleged 
reactivation obligation and promise but, as I addressed above, there was no such obligation 
or promise and Mr Gs email comments show that he knew  the option was uncertain.
Advice
I have not seen evidence of trading advice from Fortrade to Mr G. There is evidence  of what  
Fortrade has referred to as guidance  to Mr G on how to trade.  I understand the distinction it 
seeks to draw and I also understand the argument  that Mr G nevertheless perceived such 
guidance as trading advice. The regulators guidance  for circumstances like this is to draw  a 
distinction between  advice and provision of information based on the distinction  between 
expressions from a firm which either  did or did not carry the force of a recommendation. 
In other  words, is there  evidence that any guidance  given by Fortrade  to Mr G on how to 
trade extended as far as recommending what to trade? I do not consider that I have seen 
persuasive evidence  of this. The same applies  to the assertion about  advice, from Fortrade  
to Mr G, to change his citizenship for regulation related purposes.  Fortrade disputes this and 
I have not seen persuasive  evidence that it happened.
Notice of ESMA restrictions
In straightforward terms, evidence of the notice Fortrade sent to Mr G establishes  the 
following:
It was sent to him around 16 to 17 July 2018, about a fortnight before the restrictions 
became applicable, giving him ample  time to consider and take any action he wished 
to take ahead of the application  date.
It was reasonably detailed in its contents, including  clear  reference to the relevant 
leverage restrictions; to the application  of the restrictions to all new trades opened 
from 29 July 2018 in retail accounts, but not in professional accounts; to a specific list 
of instruments in which trades  opened  before 29 July 2018 would not be subject to 
the restrictions; and to notice that the restrictions will affect all trades opened before 
29 July 2018 in instruments which were not on the specific list.
I do not consider  that Fortrade mishandled  notification, to Mr G, of the ESMA restrictions.  It 
appears to have applied them retroactively to trades  on the basis of the discretion it had to 
do so  discretion  which was confirmed in guidance  given by ESMA at the time  and in the 
manner that it forewarned its clients (including Mr G) about.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Ref: DRN80576825Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8057682