K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  with a credit card.
background
Briefly:
In 1996 Mr W applied  for and took out a credit card during a branch meeting. At the same  
time PPI was added  to the account,  which was designed to protect  his card payments in the 
event he couldnt  work  because  of accident, sickness  or unemployment.
The policy cost 70 pence for every  £100 Mr W owed on the card and it would  pay a benefit  
of 10% of the monthly  outstanding balance for up to 12 months.
Barclays records show the credit  card account closed in 2006.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought Mr W made it clear in his 
application that he wanted PPI. And there was nothing to indicate that it was mis-sold or 
wasnt right for him.
Mr W disagrees. In summary he says he didnt know he had PPI. And he says hes 
suspicious about the placement  of the cross accepting PPI on the application  form  he says 
it might  have been added later on.
Because Mr W disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this.
Im satisfied this was a sale carried out during a branch meeting  the application form 
was of the type only used in-branch. I can see the application contained Yes and No 
boxes to either take out PPI or decline it. In Mr Ws case there is a printed cross in the 
Yes box.
Mr W says hes concerned  about the placement of the cross  its not properly aligned  in 
the box. But from what we know about  Barclays sales practice  at the time, the adviser 
wouldve asked the relevant application  questions during the meeting  including about 
PPI - and then printed off the application with the answers marked. Ive not seen enough 
to persuade me that something different happened  in Mr Ws case. So the misalignment 
of the cross in the PPI box is simply  that  the application hasnt properly aligned in the 
printer.
Ref: DRN82992992In answer to Mr Ws question about  why there  are also manual ticks on the form  I can 
see Mr W ticked boxes  for a free gift, next to a statement about personal  data and to 
apply for a Visa card only. I think its likely  these  were questions  which  required Mr Ws 
handwritten ticks because they didnt feature as part of the electronic application  they 
were meant to be asked  verbally after the application was printed. I dont think the 
presence of some handwritten ticks is evidence to support  Mr Ws view that PPI was 
added without his knowledge or consent.
So overall and after careful consideration of the evidence presented I think Mr W chose 
and agreed to take out PPI  Ive not seen  enough  to conclude it was added without his 
knowledge or consent. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he was employed and in good  health, so he wasnt affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
While Mr W says he had some sick pay and wouldve sought help from family and/or 
friends, the policy wouldve paid out alongside  any sick pay and for longer if necessary. 
And I dont think a reliance on family or friends can reasonably be seen  as guaranteed 
such that it was wrong for Barclays to have recommended PPI. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover 
 albeit cover that was recommended to him. And it seems like it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Im sorry  this isnt the answer Mr W was hoping for. But Ive listened to everything hes said 
including his most recent submissions in response to the adjudicators assessment. But 
these points dont  change my mind.  Im satisfied for the reasons Ive set out above  that Mr W 
hasnt lost out as a result of having  PPI, so Barclays doesnt have to pay back to him any of 
the cost of the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  above Ive decided not to uphold this complaint or make any award in 
Mr Ws favour.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8299299