K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about his trading account  with IG Index Limited  (IG). He says:
IG did not inform him about delisting (between  2016 and 2017)  and dissolution  (in 
2018) events related to a stock  he held a position in. [issue 1]
IG treated him unreasonably in applying (and in the course of applying) a margin  call 
related to closure of the position.  [issue 2]
IGs position(s) in trades appears to be as principal and agent, which is conflicting 
and/or in breach of compliance/regulations.  The same applies to its financing 
practice. [issue 3]
background
IG disputes the complaint. It considers that, in the main, the terms for the account support 
the steps it took in relation  to issue 1. However,  for its delay in notifying Mr M about events 
prior to closure of his position, it cancelled the loss that arose at the point of closure  and 
offered Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset caused to him. 
IG considered issue 2 a separate  matter,  one involving an account margin call that still had 
to be addressed by Mr M, irrespective of issue 1. It says it was entitled to apply the margin  
call and that it showed reasonableness in extending  the related  deadline  for Mr Ms benefit. 
With regards to issue 3, IG says it handles trades on an individual basis;  it is the 
counterparty in trades but it retains discretion to hedge risks in the underlying market; and it 
reduces the margin  for long and short positions in the same  market so funding  charges apply 
to both sides of the trade.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He noted  that Mr M held an execution  
only account and concluded that IG had done  enough in cancelling  the loss and offering 
£200 in relation issue 1, which he considered  to be the main part of the complaint. He was 
persuaded by evidence  that, whilst some unfortunate terms were used, Mr M had not been 
treated unfairly  by IG in issue 2  especially as IG granted  him an extension  totalling 10 days 
on the margin call deadline.  The investigator  considered that the matters in issue  3 reflect 
the effects of the terms and conditions Mr M agreed  when he opened his account.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome. He considered  that regulatory/compliance aspects of the 
issues had not been addressed. The complaint was then referred to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Issue 1
IGs terms made provisions for the process that applied depending  on whether the event 
affecting a trade is the insolvency/dissolution of the relevant company or a delisting of the 
relevant company that does not involve insolvency/dissolution. The latter  occurred in Mr Ms 
case. The company relevant to his position  was first delisted and its dissolution did not 
happen until later (in 2018). Section 24 (5) of the terms  says IG was entitled  to:
Ref: DRN84289072 take such action as is fair having regard  to all of the circumstances regarding  the 
delisting and any hedging transactions  that [it had] with third parties  and where  possible 
which reflects the treatment accorded to holders of the underlying instrument.
One of the examples of action given in this section  is closure  of the trade  and the opening of 
a proceeds line to cater for any subsequent  distributions (from the relevant company) to 
shareholders. However, as quoted above and in general, IG had discretion  to take fair 
action in the circumstances  where a delisting event occurred.
Mr Ms trade  was in profit when the delisting event happened. When the trade  was closed it 
showed a loss. Despite IG cancelling that loss, Mr Ms claim appears to be for recovery of 
the profit he believes he lost. IG says it held a hedged position in the underlying market, 
which it paid funding on, before its decision to close all of its clients  trades  (including  Mr Ms) 
related to the same company. I do not consider that this approach was in conflict  with the 
discretion IG had in the matter.
Like the investigator, I consider that cancellation  of the loss and the offer of £200  provided a 
fair basis to reflect  IGs concession that it could have  notified Mr M of the matter  sooner than 
it did. However, I am not persuaded that there is a basis for recovery of lost profit.  Another  
example given in the terms, to illustrate IGs discretion under section 24 (5), refers to closing 
trades affected by a delisting  event at a closing  price based on IGs fair and reasonable 
assessment of the value of the underlying  instrument. If IG applied this approach Mr M was 
not guaranteed the profit  that showed  in the trade prior to the delisting event and I have not 
seen enough evidence that an assessment by IG, after the delisting event, would have 
resulted in a profitable closing price.
Issues 2 and 3
I agree  with the investigators conclusion that Mr M appears to have  been  treated fairly in the 
margin call matter  including his receipt of the extension to the margin  call deadline. IG was 
contractually entitled to apply  the margin call in the account and evidence  suggests that the 
deadline extension  it granted  was done  out of goodwill.  I do not wish to be dismissive of 
what appears to be Mr Ms sincere perceptions about the manner in which  he was spoken 
to, but I have not seen enough  to conclude that he was mistreated by IG.
The counterparty and financing arrangements questioned by Mr M are as expressed in the 
agreed terms and conditions. IG does not appear  to be in breach in this respect. The terms 
include a section (section 3) about  conflicts of interests. It acknowledges and gives  notice of 
conflicts of interests that could arise between IG and its clients.  One of the examples given 
in section 3 refers to IG placing  hedging trades  in the underlying market related to a clients  
trade and another refers to it dealing  in such an underlying market.  The section gives 
information about IGs arrangement for managing conflicts of interests  and it concludes  with 
notice to clients that they acknowledge awareness  of possible conflicts of interests  and that 
they consent to IG  acting notwithstanding  such conflict . 
Mr M has referred to conflicts of interests  in his case. The effect  of section 3 is that asserting 
those conflicts, in isolation,  is not enough. Section 3 already highlights  them  or the potential  
for them. By agreeing to the terms Mr M acknowledged awareness  of them  and consented to 
proceed with the account despite them. It is necessary  to establish, on balance, that IG 
mismanaged the particular conflict(s) of interest  and I am not persuaded it did that in Mr Ms 
case. If Mr M considers  that there are regulatory  matters to investigate, such matters would 
be in the regulators  remit.
Ref: DRN84289073my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 31 August 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8428907