K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained that Well Dunn Limited  has failed to refund her the correct  amount 
after it failed  to provide the correct information  to her motor insurer. This meant her premium 
increased significantly causing her to cancel her policy and buy another  elsewhere. 
background
Theres no dispute that Ms S provided all the correct information  to Well Dunn when applying 
for her motor policy.  Well Dunn accepted it made a mistake in imputing that information to 
the insurer. That in turn meant the insurer initially asked Ms S to pay an incorrect premium 
amount.
When the insurer got the right information from Well Dunn, the insurer  had to increase Ms S 
premium by a further £1,136.52. On this basis, Ms S said that premium  was unaffordable so 
she was forced to cancel  this policy 39 days  after it started.
Ms S said she had paid a total of £953.20 but only received  a refund of £275.15, which  she 
didnt believe was enough.
Well Dunn said the refund was correct and as Ms S remained dissatisfied,  she brought her 
complaint to us.
The adjudicator was of the view that Well Dunn still owed Ms S a further  refund. Well Dunn 
didnt agree, so Ms S complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
First, I consider it was Well Dunns fault that Ms S felt forced  to cancel her policy.  This is 
because had Well Dunn  given the right information  to the insurer,  Ms S would then have 
been in a position to make an informed decision about whether she wanted  and could afford 
this policy. So I dont  consider Well Dunns assertion that the cancellation of the policy  was 
down to Ms S and her decision entirely  is either  reasonable or fair.
So given Well Dunn  was at fault in causing  Ms S to cancel her policy, its duty now is to put 
Ms S back in the situation  she would have  been  in but for its mistake.  Obviously, Ms S had 
the benefit of insurance for 39 days and therefore its only right that Ms S pays  for this time 
on risk. Otherwise, regardless of what fees are normally non-refundable  or what finance 
agreement charges there might have been,  Well Dunn  is still responsible  for ensuring  Ms S 
merely pays for the time on risk and nothing more. Its inappropriate that Well Dunn believes 
Ms S should negotiate other refunds  herself  with these other  entities. Given the reason for 
the cancellation was the fault of Well Dunn,  its Well Dunns  sole responsibility to refund 
Ms S all the monies she paid except for the correct  charge for her time on risk. If Well Dunn 
then needs to negotiate with the insurer, underwriter and/or finance company then thats a 
decision for it to make  but it has nothing to do with Ms S. It cant have anything  to do with 
Ms S since it was Well Dunn who made the error  causing the insurer  to quote the wrong 
premium price and it wasnt Ms S fault.
Ref: DRN86629252Therefore, I agree  with the calculations as detailed by the adjudicator  in his view, which were 
as follows:
The new business  premium was £2,610, which was what Ms S agreed to pay. The daily rate 
on this sum is £7.15. Ms S had 39 days on cover,  which means the charge for her time on 
risk is £278.85.
Ms S has shown me she paid a total of £953.20 so that would mean she should  have been 
refunded a total of £674.35. Well Dunn  confirmed it refunded her £275.15,  which therefore 
leaves a shortfall of £399.20. 
Its irrelevant for the purposes of these calculations  what the correct increased  premium 
should have been, as it was Well Dunns fault that wasnt charged that from the outset and 
obviously Ms S never had the chance  to consider whether she wanted to pay it either and 
then accept the offer of the policy with that premium  level.  
Further, the insurer also charged a broker fee of £180. Given  Ms S had to cancel  this policy  
and apply for another one elsewhere,  I agree with the adjudicator  that this broker fee needs 
to be refunded to Ms S too. And it needs  to be refunded by Well Dunn since  it was its 
mistake that caused the cancellation.
So adding the broker fee of £180  to the shortfall  not yet paid to Ms S that makes  the total 
Well Dunn should  now pay to Ms S to be £579.20. There is an issue of finance interest from 
the finance company but considering Ms S was only on cover for 39 days, I consider any 
adjustment to be very minor and therefore not worth including.
Obviously, interest of 8% simple should be added from the date Ms S had to cancel her 
policy to the date Well Dunn now pays her.
And I think all this has caused Ms S some trouble and upset and I think  the sum of £100  
compensation adequately  covers this.
Ref: DRN86629253my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Well Dunn  Limited to the following:
Pay Ms S the further sum of £579.20  by way of refund.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Ms S cancelled her policy to the 
date of its payment.*
Pay Ms S £100 compensation.
*If Well Dunn Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8662925