K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Virgin Money  Plc allowed him to exceed  his agreed overdraft limit 
without his knowledge.
background
Mr C had a Virgin bank  account with an overdraft limit of £800. This limit was due to reduce 
gradually in line with a repayment plan. 
Mr C complained to Virgin  that in December 2018  and January 2019  payments were taken 
out of his account which meant his balance went  over this limit. 
Virgin agreed it shouldnt  have let Mr C spend  more  than his agreed overdraft limit. It 
explained that payments to a company G were debited from his account when they 
shouldve been  declined. And in order to ensure he had funds  it had manually adjusted  his 
balance as if these  payments  had never  been  taken.
The payments to G were  then returned  to Mr Cs account, but the temporary credits applied  
by Virgin  werent debited off at the same time. So for a short period Mr Cs account  was left 
with an inflated  balance. This caused him to spend money he didnt have. And when  Virgin 
did reverse the manual  adjustments,  his account balance was left above his agreed 
overdraft limit. 
Virgin paid Mr C £100 as a gesture of goodwill. And in February  2019  it wrote off the amount 
hed exceeded  his agreed overdraft  limit by in December  2018 and January 2019, which 
totalled £635. It explained it was working  on a fix to prevent this problem from happening 
again. But that until this fix was implemented  it couldnt guarantee it wouldnt re-occur.  It said 
it felt it was reasonable Mr C should  monitor and manage his account to know  his true 
available balance. And that it wouldnt look to compensate him should this happen  again.  
When the same problem arose in March 2019 and Mr C made  a further complaint Virgin  it 
maintained this stance  and didnt offer him any further compensation.
Mr C says hes still lost out financially as a result of these problems. And would  like Virgin  to 
pay him additional compensation to put things right.
Our investigator looked at what had happened  and noted that the terms and conditions  for 
Mr Cs account stated  that it was his responsibility  to keep his account in credit or within the 
arranged overdraft limit. The investigator said that although Virgins system  error had 
resulted in Mr Cs overdraft limit being increased,  it was still up to Mr C to ensure he wasnt  
spending more  than his agreed  limit. He felt it was generous of Virgin  to have written  off his 
initial overspends. And that the compensation itd paid Mr C was reasonable for the 
inconvenience caused. He also noted  Mr Cs spending hadnt actually exceeded his agreed  
overdraft limit as a result of the incident in March 2019.
Mr C didnt agree with this view.  He said that after the payments to G had gone out his 
balance had become very high as other direct debits had also gone out due to the same 
error, and this shouldnt  have  happened.  He also explained these issues  had caused  him a 
lot of stress  and worry. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN86406242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Virgin has accepted  it made errors here.  Its paid Mr C £100 compensation and written off 
£635 of his overspends. And it feels this is reasonable to resolve  these complaints. But Mr C 
argues he has still been  left out of pocket  following  these incidents. So what I need to decide 
here is whether  Virgin should pay any further  compensation  to Mr C.
Its clear Mr C feels very strongly about  this matter. And I dont doubt the stress and worry 
these problems have  caused him. I can see he has queried how high Virgin  allowed his 
balance to go. Virgin has explained  that in some instances the payments to G were  taken  
from Mr Cs account multiple  times,  and so it had to make several  adjustments  to his 
balance in a short period.
Virgins records show that Mr C spoke to it a number of times about issues with payments to 
G and his account balance. At one point on 11 December 2018 Virgins  notes  indicate  it 
made Mr C aware it was in the process of adjusting his balance.  But I havent  seen  anything  
to suggest Mr C ought reasonably to have realised  (at least  initially) that his account  balance 
was incorrect and remained inflated after the payments  to G were returned in 
December 2018  and January 2019.
Virgin did explain the problem and the fact there  was a chance it could happen again in its 
first final response letter dated  12 February  2018. So I do think  its reasonable to expect 
Mr C to have kept track of his spending  more  vigilantly  from this point. And ultimately  it is the 
responsibility of the consumer to manage their account and be aware of whether funds are 
available to spend. 
I agree  it was fair for Virgin to pay Mr C compensation for the impact of its errors.  And I 
accept he overspent  as a result of the misleading  balance  being displayed on his account.  
However he has had the benefit of spending this money. So I dont think  it would be fair for 
me to ask Virgin to reimburse all of these payments and purchases.
Virgin has already  written off £635 (the amount his account exceeded his agreed  overdraft 
limit by in December 2018 and January 2019)   so in my view it has effectively awarded 
Mr C a total of £735 compensation  to date. And I understand a repayment plan has 
remained in place to clear his remaining overdraft balance. I appreciate  Mr C will be very 
disappointed with my decision, but I think this is reasonable  in the circumstances. And so I 
wont be asking Virgin to do anything  further.  
Ref: DRN86406243my final decision
For the reasons  I have  outlined above  I do not require  Virgin Money Plc to do anything 
further to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8640624