K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Ms M. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2008.  Bank  of Scotland sold 
Ms M the policy at the same time that she applied for the card. Our adjudicator  didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive looked into the possible ways that the PPI might have been  mis-sold. But Ive decided 
the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain  why:
Ms M has said the PPI was added without her knowledge.  However  it wouldnt be fair 
for me to conclude  this happened unless  there  was reasonable supporting  evidence  
of this. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires  that the person making  the allegation should present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to 
prove they didnt  do something,  especially when it was such  a long time ago. The 
documents from the time suggest  that PPI was discussed; and Ms Ms decision to 
take it was recorded  on the form she signed   though  its not surprising if she cant  
remember every detail  of what happened so many years  ago. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Ms M, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could 
have helped pay the credit card bill if she lost her job, or was off sick for a period  
and it doesnt  seem she had good employment  sick pay entitlement  or savings  to 
otherwise help. So I think the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was 
unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the PPI. Its possible 
the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms M about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But I dont think,  in her circumstances with limited sick pay or 
savings, that full information  about  costs and benefits would have affected whether 
she took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like shed have been  affected by any of the 
significant exclusions in the policy. 
So the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. This means Bank  of Scotland doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms M. But Bank of Scotland has paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to 
Ms M because: 
Ref: DRN82139752Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Ms M about that. Because  
Bank of Scotland didnt tell Ms M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Ms M any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8213975