K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that an appointed  representative of Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited mis-sold them a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs D had a repayment  mortgage of less than £30,000.  They also had secured and 
unsecured debts amounting to just under £60,000.  Acting on advice from L&G,  they 
re-mortgaged,  moving  lender and switching  to an interest only mortgage.  It was recorded at 
the time that the reasons for doing so included  the need to reduce their outgoings, and that 
the plan was to switch  back  to repayment terms at a later date when their finances had 
improved.
Mr and Mrs D are now represented by a claims management company (CMC). On their 
behalf the CMC has complained to L&G. It hasnt  taken  issue  with the substance of the 
mortgage advice.  But it complained about  an early repayment charge (ERC) paid to the 
previous lender. It said the new lender offered a free legal advice service, so Mr and Mrs D 
didnt need to pay for solicitors. And it said they had paid for  but hadnt needed or used  a 
will-writing service.
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint. It said the ERC had reduced to around one months  
interest  just over £160  before the re-mortgage  completed. The mortgage  Mr and Mrs D 
took didnt include  free legal services. And the will service was provided  by a third party  
company; if Mr and Mrs D hadnt  used it but their solicitors had still paid for it, that was a 
matter to take up with the solicitors or the will company. And it explained why it believed, 
overall, that the mortgage was suitable.
Our investigator also looked at the overall advice that had been given. Having done so, he 
didnt think consolidation  of all Mr and Mrs Ds debts was suitable,  and a car loan shouldnt 
have been included. And he thought that a repayment mortgage should have been 
recommended, and L&G should  put them back in the position they had been in.
I took a different view, which I set out in a provisional decision. I said:
I note that, although L&G addressed wider points of suitability in its final response, 
the CMC  in both its complaint to L&G and its later complaint to us confined itself to 
the very specific complaint points Ive set out above. In other words,  the CMC did not 
complain about  debt consolidation, or about  the recommendation to take an interest 
only mortgage. 
Nevertheless, since those  were points addressed both by L&G and by the 
investigator, Ive considered them.
I dont think this was an unsuitable mortgage.  Its clear from the fact find that 
Mr and Mrs D were in considerable financial difficulty  at the time.  Their expenditure 
each month  exceeded their income.  They had very substantial unsecured debt  
significantly more than their mortgage balance  including at least  two loans taken to 
consolidate previous debt.  The lenders  checks revealed further credit they hadnt 
disclosed on the application. Their credit history  meant they were only eligible for 
heavy adverse mortgages  sub-prime mortgages aimed at borrowers with 
Ref: DRN82940222significant past credit problems. And their recorded  priority in taking this mortgage  
was further debt consolidation. 
The investigator calculated that the mortgage would have been affordable if taken  on 
repayment terms. I agree that it would, just about,  on paper. But that wasnt  what  
Mr and Mrs D wanted, and given  their credit history  and previous record of running 
up and consolidating  debts, Im not persuaded  that it would have been  realistically  
and sustainably affordable in practice. I think the reality  was that Mr and Mrs D 
couldnt afford their outgoings. They needed  to reduce them  substantially.  The only 
way they could afford to do that was to take a sub-prime interest only mortgage. 
While that wasnt, in general terms, a particularly good mortgage to take, it did in this 
specific case leave them better off than they were before and met their aim of 
reducing their expenditure in a sustainable way. 
Turning to the complaint the CMC  actually made, I dont think  its right about the 
ERC. The figure of just over £1,600 is quoted  in the advice paperwork. But the 
previous lenders redemption statement shows that by the time of completion  it had 
reduced to £161.  Thats  30 days interest. I dont know what the previous lenders 
terms and conditions were, and how long until that charge stopped being payable,  if it 
did. But I dont think it was a significant  sum or that having to pay it meant  that what  
was otherwise a suitable mortgage  shouldnt have  gone ahead.
Theres no evidence that this mortgage included  free legal fees.  It appears  some of 
the lenders other products  which  it turned out Mr and Mrs D didnt qualify for  did 
include free legal fees. But I cant see that Mr and Mrs D were advised to pay solicitor 
fees unnecessarily with the mortgage  they actually took.
I dont know whether or not Mr and Mrs D used the services of the third party  will 
company in the end. Theres a note on the file that suggests they didnt need to as 
they already had wills. But a fee paid to a third party will provider does  appear  on the 
completion statement. If they didnt in the end pay for or use the will service, 
Mr and Mrs D had the benefit of that money paid to them directly and could have paid 
it back to the lender  if they didnt need  it. And if they did use the will service, or paid 
for it but didnt use it or receive a refund, thats  a matter for the company that 
provided the service.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  But in in the absence  of further evidence or 
argument, I see no reason to change my mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN82940223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 May 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8294022