K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains he is unhappy with the way Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) has 
dealt with his complaint  about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy and the 
compensation he has received.
background
Mr J took out a store card in October  1996  and at the same time bought a PPI policy.  In 
2013 Mr J complained to the business that operated the store  card that he had been 
mis-sold the PPI. His complaint wasnt upheld by that business.  
In January 2018 Mr J was contacted  by a claims management company and he gave his 
details to them to review any PPI policies he had. A complaint was logged  on his behalf with 
FICL. 
FICL isnt the business that operated the store card, but it was the insurer of Mr Js PPI 
policy and it has now accepted responsibility  for answering the complaint  about the mis-sale 
of the PPI. Under the way FICL looks at its complaints,  another  business investigates  the 
complaint on its behalf. This other business, which I shall refer to as Business B, was the 
same one that operated the store card.
In May 2018, in response to the complaint brought by the CMC on Mr Js behalf, FICL  said 
that PPI was mis-sold and offered £2,179.64 in compensation.
Mr J accepted the compensation but said he only did so as he was told he only had 30 days 
to accept. He also feels his complaint should  have been upheld in 2013  and so argues it 
took five years to resolve his complaint. Additionally if the complaint had been  upheld in 
2013 Mr J feels the CMC would not have been involved  and so he would  not have had to 
pay any fee to them.
So Mr J wants  FICL  to pay additional  compensation for the costs  of the CMC fee taken from 
his compensation  payment. He also thinks he should get something  extra  for the delay of 
five years in receiving an uphold to his complaint about the mis-sold PPI.
Our adjudicator said FICL had done  nothing wrong. But Mr J was still unhappy and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I can only consider the issues about  the complaint against FICL  relating to 
the mis-sold PPI with the store card ending 1883 (and later 2024). There  are a number of 
points that have been raised by Mr J based  upon matters occurring in 2013/2014  which I 
cannot consider  when  looking  at this complaint against FICL.  However  I shall try to put some 
of these into context  to help Mr J understand the overall situation.
FICL is an insurer and has accepted  responsibility  for the mis-sale  of PPI with the store card 
Mr J took out, although it wasnt  the business  that actually sold the PPI to Mr J. When  Mr J 
complained about mis-sold PPI in 2013 he complained to the business  that operated the 
Ref: DRN85405222store card, Business B. He was sent a final response letter in November 2013 from 
Business B and in that letter given  rights to refer his complaint to another organisation, not 
the financial ombudsman.  
However in 2014  Mr J did come to this service about mis-sold PPI with a number of credit 
cards, and he included his complaint about the PPI sold on his store  card account  ending 
1883. We issued  a final response  in September 2014 telling Mr J that we could not look at 
complaints about  Business B. This was because we did not have jurisdiction in relation to 
this business for the sale of PPI with store cards before 14 January 2005.
We did indicate to Mr J that he may be able to bring  a complaint against another business, 
but I have no information  as to any further  action he took in 2014. 
Therefore Mr Js issues about Business B in relation to the sale of the PPI with card ending 
1883 and his concerns about what happened  in 2013 have already been  responded to by 
this service in 2014 and that closed any investigation by this service for Mr Js complaint 
against Business  B.
In this decision I am only considering the complaint against FICL for the mis-sold PPI with 
the store card. This complaint was first made in January  2018  and is not the same complaint 
as that made by Mr J in 2013 against  Business  B.
As I have said earlier, FICL  was represented  by Business B in investigating this complaint, 
but these are totally separate businesses. 
FICL offered to settle the complaint and pay Mr J compensation. The compensation offered 
included a refund of all the premiums Mr J ever paid for the PPI plus some compensatory 
interest for any periods he was out of pocket for the costs  and this was worked out up to the 
date of settlement  in 2018.
As FICL has upheld Mr Js complaint that the PPI was mis-sold I havent  looked into why this 
happened, Ive only considered what FICL has done  to put things  right. What it has offered is 
in line with what I would expect it to do for Mr Js complaint about  the mis-sold PPI on his 
store card. 
I know Mr J says he didnt know anything about FICL or its involvement  in the complaint, but 
the final response letter he was sent in May 2018  by Business B said that it was  
responding to your complaint of behalf of Financial Insurance Company Limited.   
This complaint against FICL was only made  after the CMC  involvement  in January 2018 and 
the offer letter sent to Mr J in May 2018  set out the offer that was being made by FICL in 
response to this complaint. The offer letter also sets out that if Mr J was unhappy he could 
bring his complaint to this service,  which  he had done in response to the offer from FICL. 
I have noted Mr Js concerns about being  pressured  by time limits into accepting the offer 
from FICL  but this relates to his issues about  his CMC fees.  These are not the responsibility 
of FICL and do not affect the amount of compensation  FICL offered. Mr J has raised no 
concerns about  the amount of compensation FICL offered. 
The agreement Mr J had with his CMC was unrelated to the amount FICL offered and the 
offer letter provided  on behalf of FICL gave all relevant referral rights to this service. So I 
Ref: DRN85405223dont think FICL is responsible for any costs  or additional compensation in relation to the 
points Mr J has raised about this. His issues are not related to FICL  but to other  businesses.
Ive considered all the points  Mr J has made in his complaint  brought  as a result of the offer 
made by FICL but Im satisfied its offer is fair. The compensation offered to settle the 
complaint is in line with what I would expect  FICL  to do to put Mr J as far as possible in the 
position he wouldve  been in had he not bought  the PPI in 1996. So Im not telling FICL to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out Im satisfied that the offer of compensation made by Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to settle  Mr Js complaint is fair and Im not telling it to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8540522