K820x#14Complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the negative information Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited  
(trading as Very) has recorded on his credit file.
Background
Mr M entered into a credit agreement with Very in June 2018. He made his first 
payment in advance  of the due date but then two payments  were made late.
Mr M said that he had tried to set up a direct debit to make his payments. He said he 
was out of the country when the payments were missed and so wasnt aware of the 
issue and didnt  receive the letters. Because of this he wasnt  able to rectify the 
situation.
Mr M said the payments were  for small  amounts  and he sorted  out the issue  as soon 
as he returned  home.  He didnt think it fair that Very had recorded negative markers  
on his credit file which  he said had affected  his ability to get a mortgage. 
Very said that Mr M set up a direct  debit on the 26 September  2018 which was after 
the missed payments.  It said it refunded one of the late payment fees as a gesture of 
goodwill and that the information  had been correctly recorded with the credit 
reference agencies.
Mr M didnt agree  with Verys  response  and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mr M doesnt  agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  not be upheld for these reasons:
Mr M was provided with statements of his account showing  how much he needed to 
pay and by when.  Therefore,  I find that he had the information he needed to know 
when to make payments  on his account to avoid any late payment charges or 
adverse information  being  recorded on his credit  file.
Mr M paid his July payment in advance of the due date but his August and 
September payments were made after the due dates.
Mr M said that he had tried to set up a direct debit when he set up the account. 
However Verys systems show  that he didnt set this up until 26 September  2018. 
Without further evidence to show  that Mr M had set a direct debit up before then I 
find it more likely  than not that his first attempt to set up the direct  debit was on 
26 September. This appears to have been set up correctly and as this was after the 
Ref: DRN81101392two late payments I cant say that it was an issue with the direct debit that caused the 
payments to be made late.
I understand Mr Ms comments about being  abroad at the time but his statements 
were available to him and it was his responsibility to ensure  that his payments were 
made on time. As this didnt happen,  I dont find I can say Very did anything wrong by 
applying the two late payment charges (I note one was removed as a gesture of 
goodwill). I also do not find it did anything wrong by recording information about  
Mr Ms payments with the credit reference agencies.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but for the reasons set out above,  I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Shop  Direct Finance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8110139