K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Henderson Investments Funds  Limited unfairly changed the pricing of 
the Janus Henderson UK Property PAIF  (the Fund) after he had put in an order to sell.
background
Mr T put in an order to sell 72098.83 units  in the Fund on 20 April 2018. He says Henderson  
changed the fund pricing basis to a bid basis before executing his order so that he received 
less than he expected.
Mr T complains that Hendersons changing  of the basis of the pricing from an offer basis to 
bid basis was unfair and a form of front-running.  He complained to Henderson  about  this but 
it didnt uphold his complaint.
In its final response letter  Henderson explained that the Fund  is a dual priced fund and will 
normally switch between  an offer basis and bid basis for pricing depending on the net flows 
on the day. It said that as the Fund is a daily forward priced fund the pricing  basis is decided 
on the day depending on whether it has to create or liquidate shares.
Henderson said that it does try to limit the number of price swings by holding a book of the 
Funds shares which it can use as a buffer  to cover purchase and withdrawal trades which  
cannot be netted off against each other. But this wont stop a change to the basis of pricing if 
the net inflows or outflows are large enough.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said that the 
information Henderson provided about  the Fund  on its website and in the Key Investor  
Information Document  (KIID) shows the Fund is dual priced and there  is difference  between 
the buying and selling  price which can be up to 5%. He said this information  made  it clear  to 
investors what the basis of pricing  was. 
Mr T didnt  agree with the investigator. In short he made the following points:
He placed  his sell order  on 20 April 2018 after Henderson had changed their pricing 
basis on 18 April 2018, and he expected his order to be dealt with on that basis.
Henderson changed  the pricing basis after he placed his order on 20 April 2018, and 
processed his order  at a lower  price as result  of this before reverting back  to the 
previous basis on 30 April 2018.
He would like to see minutes from the decisions  to change  the pricing.
He expected his order to be priced  on the basis  that applied before he placed his 
order and if that wasnt going to happen he would  expect to be contacted and told it 
wouldnt be.
It isnt fair that an investor can put a sell order  in when a fund is priced on one basis  
for the fund manager to then change  the pricing so it is on a different basis after the 
order is received.
He isnt talking  about a bid-ask spread  which is 0.25% for the fund - but about  
shifting the entire value of units up and down by 5% to seemingly profit from 
investors after they have placed orders when there  has been no underlying  change  in 
the assets.
If the fund managers need to recover transaction costs  they should do so in a 
transparent way by including a larger bid-offer spread rather than shifting the pricing  
Ref: DRN88854782of units up or down depending on whether there are more buyers  or sellers on a 
particular day.
If an investor places an order based  on the fund price shown on all publicly available 
information it is reasonable  for the investor to assume their order  will be dealt with on 
the basis of that information.
Because Mr T didnt  agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Fund is dual priced  and this is made  clear  in the documents  available  to investors.  The 
KIID states:
Buy-Sell Spread This Fund is dual priced.  When the Fund  is growing in size the prices at 
which buy or sell shares  in the Fund  will incorporate the transaction costs  incurred in buying 
physical properties.  When the Fund is shrinking in size the prices  that you buy or sell shares 
in the Fund  at will incorporate the transaction costs incurred in selling physical properties. 
The difference between these prices  is called the creation-cancellation price spread. This 
spread is currently c.5%...
So investors are made aware that the price basis can change from an offer  basis (when it is 
growing) to a bid basis (when it is shrinking). They are also made  aware that the difference  
in price between  the two is around  5%.
Whichever basis is used  there  will still be a quoted bid price and a quoted offer price  and the 
spread between these two prices will be 0.25%. Again this is information that is made 
available to investors.  
The Fund is forward priced. This means  the Fund  will be valued at a valuation  point  (VP) 
each day. For the Fund this is 12 midday,  with the valuation published at 9.00am the 
following day. Again  this information is provided within the available documents.
The effect of forward pricing is that an investor wont know  what  price  their trade will be 
executed at until the next VP after they placed the trade. 
The Fund had been using  the bid price basis since February 2018 but this was changed to 
the offer basis on 18 April 2018 and remained on this basis the following day. Mr T placed 
his trade  on 20 April 2018. He says he is unhappy  that the pricing basis was changed  after 
he placed his order which he thinks is unfair.  
I understand why Mr T may be unhappy with what happened but I dont think Henderson  has 
done anything  wrong. The documents Henderson made available made clear that the Fund  
was a dual priced  fund and that it was forward priced. So he was aware that the price basis 
could change and that as a forward priced fund the price for buying/selling would be set at 
the next VP after his trade.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Ref: DRN88854783Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8885478