K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
1994. Miss S and Mr H say Nationwide Building Society, trading at the time as Portman  
Building Society (PBS), mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Miss S and Mr H took out a mortgage  in 1994. As part of the mortgage, Miss S and Mr H 
were given free redundancy only insurance  for the first 24 months  of the mortgage. 
In 1996 Miss S and Mr H upgraded their policy to PPI covering them  for accident,  sickness 
and unemployment   after they had received  a letter from PBS offering the insurance. They  
paid a monthly amount for the PPI. This policy covered them both and if either of them had 
made a successful claim, the policy would have  paid out 75% of the monthly  benefit  for 
Mr H and 25% of the monthly benefit  for Miss S for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Miss S and Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss S and Mr Hs case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate  that they feel strongly about this matter 
and that this decision will be disappointing  for them. Ill explain my reasons why.
PBS had to make  it clear that the policy was optional and Miss S and Mr H had to agree to 
take it out. Miss S and Mr H say they felt they had to take out the PPI.
From the information we have been  given,  the initial policy was taken out at the same time 
as the mortgage and was offered  free of charge to Miss S and Mr H. This was a free policy 
and I havent seen anything from the paperwork provided to show  that Miss S and Mr H 
were required  to continue  with the insurance  once the 24 month  free period had come to an 
end.
In 1996 Miss S and Mr H amended  the cover to accident, sickness and insurance cover, 
after receiving a letter from PBS. They completed  an application form detailing that they 
should both be insured  and confirming the level of benefit they wanted from the policy. This 
was then returned to PBS in the post.  There was an option on this application form to state 
that the PPI wasnt  required. 
Miss S and Mr H have said the letter propelled  them to take out the cover for fear of losing 
their home. Ive considered what they have said very carefully but, from looking at the letter, 
I havent seen  anything which suggests  Miss S and Mr H were pressured into taking out the 
PPI. The document  talks about offering the insurance and makes it clear  they didnt need 
to take out the cover.  
Ref: DRN85034332So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think PBS made  Miss S and Mr H aware 
the policy was optional and that they agreed  to take it out, knowing  they could refuse it if 
they didnt want  it.
PBS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S and Mr H. As the application form was 
sent to Miss S and Mr H in the post,  it appears  there  was no interaction between  PBS and 
Miss S and Mr H when they took out the policy in 1996.  So I think  its more likely that PBS 
didnt recommend the policy to them. This means it didnt have to check if the policy was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Miss S and Mr H got the information they 
needed to decide for themselves if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information PBS gave  Miss S and Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for them if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover.
Miss S and Mr H have said they didnt need the policy as they would have received sick 
pay and Mr H would have  been able to work in the family business if he was to lose his job. 
But as Ive mentioned above, PBS didnt recommend the policy to them and so it didnt 
have to check what other means  they had in place to cover their repayments if they werent  
working  it was for Miss S and Mr H to decide if they needed the cover, based on what  
they knew of their financial circumstances at the time. So this point doesnt change  my 
decision.
Ive thought about everything that Miss S and Mr H have  said but, after taking everything  
into consideration, I dont  think that the policy was mis-sold and therefore  PBS doesnt 
have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss S and Mr H.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
PBS has said Miss S and Mr Hs mortgage  was taken  out in 1994 and ended in 2001. So 
based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission  apply here.
Ref: DRN85034333my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8503433