K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about the service provided by Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) in 
relation to the setting up of her childrens  savings accounts.
background
Mrs K holds an account with Halifax. She is also the controlling adult  for her daughters 
savings account  there.  In February 2019, Mrs K wanted to open a second account  for her 
daughter and two new accounts for her baby. She says she wanted the money  in her 
daughters existing account to be spread across the three  new accounts. Mrs K made an 
appointment at her Halifax branch  to set this up.
She says that the advisor she saw refused to open the three  new accounts. He only opened 
one new account  for the baby. Mrs K says the reason  given was that each child could only 
have one savings  account. But Mrs K says thats  not correct because  the Halifax  website 
states that each  child can have two savings accounts. She also says that the advisor didnt  
help her to transfer  money into the new account as she had asked.
Mrs K is also unhappy because she says that the advisor spent  a large part of the meeting 
putting pressure  on her to take out a mortgage.  She says he suggested she should  put the 
money from her childrens accounts towards a house purchase,  saying that she should buy a 
property instead  of renting. Mrs K says she felt deceived and harassed by the advisor and 
that his only focus  was to sign her up for a mortgage. 
When Mrs K complained to Halifax, they acknowledged that shed  been  given the wrong 
information about the childrens accounts.  They confirmed that each  child is able to hold two 
accounts. They offered  compensation of £100  in respect of this. They said that if Mrs K still 
wanted to open another  account for her children, she could do so online  or they could 
arrange an appointment for her in the branch. And they offered to cover  any loss of interest 
suffered by Mrs Ks children as a result  of the delay  in opening  the second accounts.  But 
Halifax said that Mrs K hadnt been pressured  into speaking to them  about a mortgage.
Mrs K wasnt  happy with Halifaxs response  so she brought her complaint to this service.  
She says she is shocked by what happened and found it extremely  stressful.  She says she 
felt very vulnerable  and harassed  during the meeting. And that she is very reluctant to visit 
the branch again on her own. 
Our investigator thought that Halifax had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask them  
to do any more. But Mrs K didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. She didnt think the compensation offered by Halifax was enough.  She says 
£5,000 would be a more  appropriate figure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax have already acknowledged that Mrs K was given  the wrong information about  the 
number of accounts each child could hold.  Theyve  apologised for that and offered Mrs K 
compensation. So I dont need  to go over the background  to that here.  What  Ill focus  on 
Ref: DRN84635472instead is whether  Halifax  have done enough to put things right.  Ill also look at the other 
aspect of Mrs Ks complaint, to do with the mortgage  conversations which took place.
wrong information about the number of accounts  which could be opened
Its difficult to put a monetary value on the stress and inconvenience caused  by something 
like this. Ive taken into account everything Mrs K has said and I realise she feels strongly 
that the compensation should  be higher.  But our awards arent intended  to punish a 
business. Instead, theyre intended to reflect the impact the situation had on the customer  
and put that right, so far as possible. 
In considering the amount  of compensation, Ive taken into account the fact that Halifax 
acknowledged their mistake promptly. They apologised and offered compensation. They  
informed Mrs K of two ways in which she could open  the second accounts  for her children. 
And they offered to compensate her for interest  she may have lost by not opening the 
accounts on the day of the meeting. So Im satisfied that Halifax have now given Mrs K the 
correct information  and that theres no ongoing  loss to her. 
I understand Mrs K is unhappy that the advisor  wasnt able to transfer funds during the 
meeting. But Mrs K says she did this in the branch straight after her meeting. So I dont  think  
shes suffered any loss or particular inconvenience in relation to that.  
For these reasons, I think the way Halifax dealt with this aspect of the complaint was 
reasonable. And I think the amount of compensation theyve offered for it is fair. So Im not 
going to ask them to do any more on this issue.
mortgage discussions
Turning to the other part of the complaint, Mrs K says that, although the purpose of her 
meeting in the branch  was to open  accounts  for her children, the advisor spent  more  time 
talking to her about a mortgage. She says she wasnt interested in a mortgage at that time 
and felt pressured and vulnerable during the meeting. She also suggests that the reason the 
advisor wouldnt open a second  account for each of her children was related to the fact that 
she didnt wish to pursue the mortgage. 
Ive listened to the recording of Mrs Ks meeting in the branch. The advisor  said at the 
beginning that he would  see if there  were  any other  services which Halifax  might  be able to 
offer her. He then asked  her several  questions  about her circumstances including  whether 
she was working, where she was living and whether she had considered buying a property. 
He discussed  some of the merits of buying  as opposed to renting and said he might  
introduce Mrs K to the mortgage  advisor later. He then moved on to discussing  the childrens 
accounts.
Around half way through  the meeting, the advisor suggested introducing  Mrs K to the 
mortgage advisor. She agreed to this. Having listened to the recording, I think  Mrs K had the 
opportunity to say no to this. Whilst I understand that she may not have felt able to do that, I 
dont find that there  was any pressure put on her to meet the mortgage advisor or to pursue 
a mortgage application. She made  it clear  that she wasnt looking to buy a property at that 
time, so the mortgage advisor  provided  her contact  details  and left. I dont think  that was 
unreasonable.
Ref: DRN84635473Although the original  advisor discussed the option of a mortgage with Mrs K, and touched on 
this again later, the conversation wasnt overly detailed and I havent heard anything that 
was inappropriate. I dont find that any pressure was put on Mrs K. And I dont think the 
amount of time spent discussing this was disproportionate to the overall  length  of the 
meeting.
The advisor said at the start of the meeting that Mrs K could only open one account  for each 
child. He discussed  this again in much more detail after the mortgage advisor had been and 
gone. But I dont  find that it was said in response  to anything Mrs K said about  the mortgage.
So I dont  think Halifax did anything wrong here and Im not going  to ask them to do anything 
about this aspect of Mrs Ks complaint.
conclusion
I think Halifax have dealt  with this complaint fairly  and that the amount of compensation 
theyve offered is fair. So Im not going  to uphold this complaint because I think  Halifax  have 
already done enough  to put things right. Im not going to ask them to do any more  here.
I understand that Mrs K hasnt accepted Halifaxs offer of compensation. If she now wishes 
to do so, she should contact Halifax direct.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8463547