K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that a car she acquired  via a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
No. 1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She also says that it mishandled her complaint 
and sold the car without  investigating the issues.
Mrs S has been represented  by Mr S, her husband,  who has dealt with this matter  on her 
behalf from the start. For ease of reference  I will refer to Mrs S in my decision as it is her 
complaint.
background
In May 2017  Mrs S entered into a five year conditional sale agreement for a used car. The 
car was around five and half years old and had a mileage of about 57,500.
Mrs S has already made  a complaint about the quality of the car to Moneybarn.  That 
complaint was referred to us  and not upheld. But it does put this complaint in context. In 
summary, an independent inspection was carried out in December 2017 and there wasnt  
sufficient evidence to say the faults  were present or developing at the time Mrs S got the car. 
When her complaint was referred to us, we agreed  it was unlikely the fault with the car was 
present or developing at the point  of sale. Mrs S didnt respond further and the complaint 
was closed.
Mrs S says she didnt get the car back  from the dealership until January 2018 and that she 
then arranged and paid for the repairs to the car. Mrs S says the car was then only used for 
short journeys but the engine completely seized a short  time later.  She complained  again  to 
Moneybarn about  the car in March 2018.
Mrs S says she heard nothing from Moneybarn so contacted it again in July 2018 by phone. 
Mrs S says she was then told that no complaint  had been opened but that would be now be 
done. However, by this time Mrs Ss account was in arrears and a default  notice  had been  
issued in June  2018. So during this call the agent  discussed options for terminating  the 
agreement and it was agreed that these would be sent out in writing and Mrs S would have 
seven days to decide what she wanted  to do. 
Mrs S says it was also discussed  during that call how her complaint would be handled  and 
that the car would be stored  by Moneybarn while its condition  was investigated and a 
decision would then be made about  whether her complaint would be upheld  or not. If it was 
upheld then the agreement would be unwound  and any reference to the default  wouldnt 
appear in her credit file.
Mrs S sent an email to Moneybarn saying that she agreed to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement provisionally whilst my complaint dispute is ongoing.  A couple of days  later   
Mrs S received formal  notification that her complaint  had been received and was being  
investigated by Moneybarn.
In August  2018  Moneybarn wrote to Mrs S confirming  the agreement  had been terminated 
and a third party company  would be in touch to collect the car. The car was duly collected  
and inspected.
Ref: DRN84207932Mrs S says she next received a letter from Moneybarn in September 2018 informing her that 
the car was going to be sold at auction  within the next 10 days. This letter also says that the 
pre-final billing amount  on the account was £6062 which was the amount that was owed.
The following  day she received  a letter from Moneybarn saying that it hadnt been able to 
investigate her complaint  within the 56 days and she could  take her complaint  to this service  
if she wanted to.
Around three weeks later Moneybarn wrote to Mrs S stating that the car had been inspected  
and it was estimated  that it required around  £3,000 worth of repairs.  Moneybarn  said that it 
didnt propose  to have the car repaired but to sell it auction as this may be a better  outcome 
for Mrs S as it may reduce the amount she owed. Moneybarn set out that it proposed to 
charge Mrs S either  the difference between  the reduced price of the car was now expected  
to fetch due to its condition  and the normal market value or the cost of the repairs  which ever 
was the lower amount.
Mrs S asked Moneybarn for a breakdown  of the repair costs. Moneybarn  replied that Mrs S 
hadnt been charged for any repair work and that it had applied the half rule deduction.
Mrs S complained to this service that the car had been sold without her permission and this 
wasnt in line with what she had been told about the car being stored pending  investigation 
into her complaint. She said she didnt believe her concerns about the quality of the car had 
been investigated properly.
Shortly after Mrs S brought  her complaint to this service Moneybarn issued its final decision 
on her second complaint.  Moneybarn said that it was satisfied that the issues with the car 
had arisen through wear and tear due to its age and mileage and that they werent present at 
the point of sale. It also confirmed that the inspection had revealed that the engine  would not 
turn over, there were  crank and camshaft codes stored, the timing  belt had come off, the 
water pump had collapsed and the engine was likely to have internal damage.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ss complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Mrs S 
had voluntary terminated the agreement in July and that this couldnt then be rescinded. 
Moneybarn was within its rights to collect the car and sell it notwithstanding  the outstanding 
complaint.
Our adjudicator said he thought the complaint  had been properly investigated as in July 
2018 Moneybarn  had requested the cars MOT, most recent service record  and any 
diagnostics or invoices relating to the issues raised but Mrs S hadnt  responded to this 
request. Our adjudicator  said taking into account the age and mileage  of the car it was 
reasonable for Moneybarn to say the issues with wear and tear were to be expected and 
there was no evidence to contradict that view.
Mrs S disagreed with our adjudicators view and the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN84207933Ive seen that Mrs S stopped making payments for the car when it broke down in or round 
March 2018. She says she was justified in doing so as the car wasnt  of satisfactory  
condition. This led to the default notice being  sent to her in June 2018.
When Mrs S contacted Moneybarn in July 2018  to chase  her earlier  complaint  of March she 
was told that no new complaint  had been opened.  I dont  know why this complaint wasnt 
opened in March or why Mrs S waited so long to chase it up but Ive seen the complaint was 
opened during this call. It was also discussed that the account was in arrears  and that there 
were options  for Mrs S to now terminate. 
However, when listening  to the calls that have been provided by Moneybarn  Ive heard the 
agent tell Mr S, who was ringing on Mrs Ss behalf, that the car would be stored pending 
the investigation into the complaint. Mr S asks that another independent engineer  is used 
and says he doesnt want the dealership involved. 
I think, after listening to these calls, that Mr S was given the impression the car would be 
inspected for any faults and then a decision would be made about Mrs Ss complaint. The 
agent said the agreement could be unwound if the car wasnt  of satisfactory condition and 
then the default wouldnt  appear on Mrs Ss credit file.
This services remit is to investigate regulated  activities as set out in the FCAS Dispute 
Resolution Complaints Sourcebook (known as the DISP rules). The way a business deals 
with a complaint  isnt a regulated activity so I cant require a business  to pay a consumer 
compensation for mishandling a complaint but I can look at whether I think  the car was or 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Under the Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 a car must be of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect 
taking into account  all the relevant circumstances such as age, condition  and mileage  of 
the car. Here, the car was five and half years  old with a mileage of 57,500 so I think  a 
reasonable person would expect maintenance and repair issues  to arise after a time.  
Ive seen Mrs Ss first complaint about the car made  in October 2017 wasnt  upheld as 
the independent engineer, who had inspected the car, found an issue  with misfiring  and 
said that looking at the number of miles driven  by Mrs S, this would have arisen  through  
wear and tear. And Mrs S says following this she had repairs  to the cam belt and water 
pump carried out in or around February  2018.  She says she didnt use the car very much 
after that and the engine  then seized in March 2018 meaning it couldnt  be used. Mrs S 
hasnt provided  the invoice  for these repairs.
Ive also seen that when the car was inspected,  after it had been collected from Mrs S by 
Moneybarn, faults  were discovered  again with the cambelt and pump.  And so I dont 
think I can reasonably say that the second  set of faults with the car werent linked to the 
original ones but this wouldnt mean the car wasnt of a satisfactory  quality at the point of 
sale to Mrs S. This could  be due to either the repairs being  of a poor standard  or 
because they were only of a temporary  nature. Taking into account the report of the 
independent engineer then I think its reasonable to conclude that its likely the issues  
with the car were  due to wear  and tear.
I also think that due to the passage of time and repairs being carried out on the car in 
February or March 2018 would mean that it would be unlikely for another  independent  
Ref: DRN84207934engineer to be able to provide a report on the quality of the car at the point of sale to Mrs 
S in May 2017. 
Ive also seen that Mrs S didnt assist Moneybarn in its investigation. I dont know why 
she didnt provide the information it requested about  the cars services,  the MOT and the 
previous repair  invoices. 
Looking at the evidence thats  available about  the condition  of the car, I think  its more  
likely than not that Mrs Ss complaint wouldnt have been upheld as to the quality of the 
car at the point  of sale and the faults  with the engine would have been considered to be 
due to wear and tear.
Mrs S says that Moneybarn had no right to sell the car and needed her permission to do 
so. But Ive seen  that Mrs S emailed Moneybarn on the same  day it provided the options 
open to her in writing  as how to end the agreement early. Mrs S said she was voluntarily 
terminating the agreement though she added a proviso that this is provisional while her 
complaint was open. 
There was no further communication  between Mrs S and Moneybarn until August 2018 
when Moneybarn wrote  to Mrs S to inform her that the agreement  was terminated and 
the car would be collected by a third party company.  Ive seen from the correspondence  
between Moneybarn and the third party company that Moneybarn  had requested that the 
car be repossessed  as Mrs S had failed to complete the voluntary  termination process.  
And according to the notes provided by Moneybarn this was because although it had 
accepted Mrs Ss email  to voluntary terminate, the third-party company that had then 
been arranged  to collect the car hadnt been able to contact Mrs S. This had meant 
Moneybarn passing  the matter to a different company to collect  the car. 
Voluntary termination means the contract  is ended and the car handed back.  I think that 
that is set out clearly  in the terms and conditions of the agreement and in the letter sent 
to Mrs S about voluntary termination in July 2018. The car wasnt  owned by Mrs S until 
shed made  the last payment on the car and it remained the property of Moneybarn.  I 
dont think Moneybarn could accept a provisional termination of the agreement  or that 
Mrs S was able to make that stipulation when she handed the car back. However,  
Moneybarn didnt make  that clear  to Mrs S.
Looking at the lack of contact and payments I dont think  I can reasonably say 
Moneybarn acted unfairly in taking the car back when  it did, ending  the agreement  and 
selling it on but it should have been  clearer with Mrs S about  what would happen.
I appreciate Mrs S had been given an expectation  that the car would be inspected and a 
decision made about her complaint regarding the quality of the car before the contract  
was ended but in these  circumstances  I dont think its likely that Mrs S has been  
disadvantaged by the lack of a second inspection of the car. 
I also dont think I can reasonably require Moneybarn to remove  the default notice from 
Mrs Ss credit  file. This is because Moneybarn are under a duty to record  accurate 
information about payments under the agreement and Mrs S was under an obligation to 
make those payments  but didnt. 
So for the reasons given above  Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN84207935my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8420793