K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms W complain  that Leeds Building Society  (trading  as Mercantile Building Society 
Leeds) mis-sold them  a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1992 Mr and Ms W took out a mortgage  and the society recommended they also take out 
PPI to protect their repayments. The PPI cost £13 a month and would have paid out about 
£200 a month if Mr and Ms W had made  a successful claim.
Mr and Ms W say they were told they had to buy the PPI if they wanted the mortgage. When  
they first complained  to Leeds it said it couldnt  find any records  of the PPI  but 
Mr and Ms W provided some of their own paperwork  and Leeds acknowledged it had been 
sold. Leeds went on to say the policy had been sold by the Mercantile  Building  Society   
which it had merged with in about  2006.  It said it only received records of mortgages either 
still running or ones  that had been closed within the previous  six years. As Mr and Ms Ws 
mortgage had been closed in 1998 it didnt receive  any information about  their account. It 
also thought the PPI would have been  in Ms Ws name only.
Mr and Ms W say the policy was definitely in joint names, and they werent given the 
appropriate advice  when they bought it. They think the society was wrong  to sell them  the 
policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Ms Ws case. 
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Ms Ws complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for 
this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision  on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely  
to have happened.
Mr and Ms Ws main  concern is that they were  told they had to have the PPI. Leeds doesnt 
have the actual paperwork for either  the mortgage  or the PPI. But this isnt surprising given 
the sale took place more  than 25 years ago and the mortgage was repaid about 20 years 
ago. Leeds explanation of why it didnt get information on Mr and Ms Ws mortgage  when it 
merged with Mercantile  is reasonable  I wouldnt expect it to hold information for a 
mortgage that had been repaid  about  eight years  before it merged with the society  that sold 
the PPI. Mr and Ms W have sent us some paperwork   but nothing  that is from the sale 
itself. Thats  also very understandable given how long ago this took place.
Ref: DRN82114232Mr and Ms W have  told us what they recall from the time of the sale, and Im sure theyve 
been as accurate as possible.  But there are some  discrepancies  in what  theyve said that 
suggest the passage of time might have,  understandably, affected their recall.  
I say this because  theyve told us Mr W was made redundant between  them  applying  for a 
mortgage and it being paid out some months later  although Mr W had a new job by then. 
They say this meant they had to pay an extra £250. Im not convinced  this was anything to 
do with the PPI. I accept  that PPI is sometimes sold with a single premium  so paid for 
upfront. But thats  very unusual for PPI that is sold with a mortgage.  And we know  this policy  
was paid for monthly, because it shows on the statements  Mr and Ms W provided.  There are 
other types of fees and insurance  associated with mortgages that might  explain the £250, 
but I dont think  it was associated with the PPI.
Ive also thought about the fact that there  is often  some compulsory insurance  associated 
with a mortgage  building cover  for example  and its possible this is what  Mr and Ms W 
remember from the time of the sale.
Taking everything into account,  and from what this service knows  about  how Mercantile and 
other building societies sold PPI at the time, on balance I think its likely Mr and Ms W were 
given a choice  about buying  the PPI. 
Theres also some  uncertainty about how the PPI was sold  in a meeting or over the phone. 
The way PPI is sold can affect whether it was recommended or not. If it was recommended  
then the society  had a duty to check it was suitable  for Mr and Ms W. From what 
Mr and Ms W have  told us about their circumstances I think  it was.
Thats because:
-Leeds says Mercantile probably set the policy up in Ms Ws name  only. It says thats 
because Mercantile rarely sold joint policies. Mr and Ms W say it was joint cover.  There  
isnt any evidence to say which it was, other than both parties statements. But whether it 
was a joint policy or not, it doesnt affect  my decision. I say that because it looks  as 
though the policy was suitable for them  either way.
-It looks as though both Mr and Ms W were  eligible for the policy,  and it doesnt look like 
theyd have been affected by any of the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover,  
such as those relating  to pre-existing  medical conditions. I understand Mr W might have 
been made redundant shortly after buying the policy,  but theres no suggestion he was 
unemployed when he bought it. I think thats supported by the fact that he and Ms W 
were able to successfully apply for a joint mortgage   something that would probably 
have been more difficult if he hadnt been working when they first applied.
-Ms W says she would have received good  sick pay if she couldnt  work. But this policy  
would pay on top of these benefits and for longer  than Ms W would get her full salary. 
Mr W doesnt seem to have had any work related benefits. A mortgage is a big 
commitment, and I think Mr and Ms W would have  had some use for the policy.  
-I dont know exactly when they were told what the PI would cost. But I do think theyd 
have known it cost something.  The policy was competitively priced and apparently  
affordable, and I dont  think when Mr and Ms W first knew the cost affected their decision 
to buy the PPI. 
Ref: DRN82114233-Its possible that Leeds could have provided more information  about the policy, 
particularly in regard  to the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr and Ms W werent affected 
by any of these  things at the time,  so I dont think that more information would have 
caused them  to change their minds about  buying the policy.  So they arent any worse off 
as a result of anything  Leeds may have  done  wrong. So theres  nothing  that Leeds 
needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8211423