K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited  represented by Halifax 
Financial Service Limited  (Halifax)  didnt  make him aware or give him enough time to explore 
the other options  available when his pension plan ended on his 75th birthday. He says the 
time taken  to resolve the matter meant  he didnt receive any income  for a few months. 
He says that, as Halifax no longer offered the option of a post age 75 drawdown plan, he 
had to find another provider  at short notice  which caused him significant distress and 
inconvenience. Hes also complained about the service Halifax provided  during the transfer  
which he said meant he was badly let down.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 30 April 2020- a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision.
By way of a summary, Mr S held a flexible pension with Halifax which   at the age of 75, 
gave him three options. To buy an annuity,  to take out another drawdown plan with Halifax, 
or to transfer to another  provider. But legislation in 2011 meant  that Halifax  changed  its 
terms and conditions (T&Cs) and would  only provide Mr S with an annuity at age 75, not a 
drawdown plan.  It said it made  its customers aware  of that fact through an endorsement, but 
Mr S said he didnt  receive it.
Halifax continued to correspond with Mr S until it wrote to him in February 2018 asking him 
to contact it to discuss his retirement options  as he turned  75 in June 2018. Mr S said he 
didnt receive that letter  either. Following another letter  in May 2018 Mr S did contact  Halifax  
and began the process of transferring his plan to another  provider. But there  were  delays 
and the transfer  didnt  complete until 20 July 2018. Mr S complained  about  those delays  and 
the loss of several months income,  but Halifax didnt think it had done anything  wrong in 
making Mr S aware of his options at age 75. But it did accept its service had been  poor when 
arranging the transfer and paid Mr S £200.
Our investigator thought that Halifax should  pay £350 compensation because  he thought the 
failure to send Mr S a letter  six week prior to the retirement date caused additional concern 
and delay.
I said that I thought  Halifax  had already paid a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
(£200). But I also thought the missing  six-week letter meant the transfer  was delayed and 
Halifax should calculate the value  of Mr Ss pension now had it been transferred on 
7 June 2018. I gave the following reasons  for my conclusion:
Halifax was entitled to change the products  it offered following the 2011 legislation. 
And I thought  it made people aware of the change not to offer a drawdown product 
through its endorsement. Although  I couldnt safely say Mr S received the 
endorsement.
However, I thought  Mr S was made aware of the change in the July 2017 annual  
drawdown statement.
If Mr S had become  aware of the change, he would  have  contacted Halifax and been 
told that his only option was to take out an annuity. So he would most  likely have 
contacted it again   prior to his 75th birthday and transferred at that point. He may 
Ref: DRN83601732however have had more  time to research  to which provider hed prefer to transfer his 
fund.
Halifax had made a number of errors  during this process which would have  caused  
Mr S frustration  and concern. But I thought  the £200 it had offered in 
acknowledgement of its poor service was fair and reasonable.   
I thought Mr S had a right to expect  Halifaxs  six-week letter to remind  him that he 
needed to act before his 75th birthday. And based on his quick  responses  to the other  
letters hed received from Halifax I thought he would have contacted it and been  able 
to complete the transfer by the selected  retirement date.
I said Halifax should compare the value of his plan now with what  it would have been 
if hed transferred on his 75th birthday   although I didnt agree that he should be 
compensated with the additional growth  he could have obtained if his plan had 
remained invested with Halifax  until it was actually transferred. I also didnt  think he 
should be compensated for his lost income  payments  as they had been  accounted  
for within the fund following my recommended  method of redress.  
Having explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld in part I invited both parties 
to send any additional comments or evidence  they wished to make.  
Halifax didnt accept  the provisional  decision.  It said,
The six-week letter wasnt a regulatory  requirement and it questioned whether Mr S 
would have received it if sent,  as he didnt receive the February 2018 letter.  
It had notified  Mr S, in its annual  statements,  that his plan couldnt continue after the 
age of 75. It said it would contact him before his birthday, which  it did. It thought, 
although its letter acted as a reminder,  it was up to Mr S to decide what  to do with his 
funds.
It also questioned  whether  an alternative  redress formula should be considered as it 
might be difficult  to obtain the required  information now the plan had been transferred 
to another provider.
Mr S also disagreed. He made the following  points:
We hadnt addressed  all of his points from his original complaint email of 
March 2019.
Hed been happy with his pension  with Halifax until he discovered in May 2018 that 
Halifax no longer  offered  an income  drawdown  product. He said he hadnt received 
the endorsement that had made  customers aware of this change and felt he 
deserved to be sent more than a circular which, in any case,  we hadnt 
demonstrated was sent to him. He thought he should have received a personalised 
letter setting out this important change to the T&Cs.
It wasnt until 2017 that Halifax said he had to purchase an annuity or transfer to 
another pension  arrangement.  But he thought Halifax  should have made it clear that 
another arrangement only referred  to using another provider  not another  
arrangement with Halifax.
It was only in May 2018  that he became aware  that he couldnt take out a drawdown 
plan with Halifax. He said he told Halifax of his desire not to annuitise  but doesnt  
believe it noted this on his file.
He believes the lack of time he was given to find another provider led him to making 
the wrong choice  as hes not been happy  with the income provided  by his new plan. 
Ref: DRN83601733He thought Halifaxs behaviour during this time (June  2018)  was chaotic and had a 
significant impact on him. 
He didnt understand the redress formula Id put forward and wasnt  sure if any 
compensation would be payable. He also questioned what  information  hed need to 
provide.
He thought the £200 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  was totally  
inadequate as the disruption lasted for two months  in total.
 my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on the further submissions Ive 
received, I see no reason  to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. 
I can understand Mr Ss frustration both with the outcome of the complaint and also that he 
doesnt believe weve answered all his complaint points.  I can assure Mr S Ive read and 
considered all his submissions carefully,  but I wont necessarily respond to every  point made  
 rather, Ill concentrate on what I consider  is key to the complaint. 
Did Halifax  make Mr S aware of the change to the T&Cs of the plan?
As I explained previously  Halifax  was entitled to change the T&Cs  of Mr Ss plan. Especially  
following relevant  legislation. But I would expect it to make  customers  aware of the changes 
 which  I think it did through the endorsement letter of 2011. Im satisfied this letter was sent 
out as part of a bulk mailing  exercise   but equally I dont dispute  that Mr S didnt receive it 
as he maintains. Theres no evidence of the individual letter that would have been sent to 
him. 
Mr S says,  given the significance of the change, he ought to have been sent a personalised 
letter setting out the change to his plan. But I think its reasonably standard  practice for a 
business to make all its customers aware  of changes within one group mailing  exercise and 
Im not aware of any regulatory requirement  to send bespoke letters to every  customer 
involved in such changes. I think Halifax acted reasonably here, its just unfortunate that Mr 
S didnt  receive  the letter that was sent to him. 
But, in any case,  theres  no dispute  that Halifax did make Mr S more aware of the change in 
its annual statement of 2017. Mr S says Halifax  should have been clearer  in its wording and 
the statement  if you wish to continue taking your retirement benefits as income  drawdown,  
you may be able to transfer to another pension arrangement doesnt exclude using Halifax 
for that pension arrangement. And I have some sympathy for Mr Ss understanding  of 
Halifaxs explanation.  But I dont think Halifax needed to do anymore to make people  aware 
of these changes  when taking the 2011  endorsement and 2017 annual  statement together.  
Its unfortunate Mr S says he didnt receive the endorsement, but I cant  blame Halifax  for 
that as Im satisfied it did send the letter as part of its bulk mailing. I dont think it would be 
fair for me to conclude  that Halifax didnt make Mr S aware of the changes  to its plan, but I 
do think it ought to have done more  after the February 2018 letter.
Should Halifax have  done more following its February 2018 pack?
Ref: DRN83601734Mr S says he didnt receive  Halifaxs communication in February  2018.  So the last 
communication he says he received was the July 2017 statement. This told Mr S that it 
would contact you before  your 75th birthday to explain what  your options are.  So I think 
Mr S had an expectation that Halifax would contact him in plenty  of time before his birthday,  
especially if it wanted to explain  his various options. But the next time he says he heard from 
Halifax was its letter of 21 May 2018  which Mr S responded to straight away   but which 
left little or no time to complete a transfer before the retirement date, especially as Mr S had 
to find a new provider  who would accept his fund and provide an appropriate drawdown 
plan.
I understand that while Mr S says he didnt receive  the February 2018 pack Halifax says it 
was sent, but again Im unable to determine exactly what did happen.  But there should have 
been another letter sent six weeks before Mr Ss birthday,  which Halifax admits wasnt sent 
out. Halifax has said that letter wasnt a regulatory  requirement and Mr S ought to have 
made his own mind up about  what to do with his fund. But the letter was part of Halifaxs  
process and I think Mr S had a right to expect  Halifax to follow  its process here.
Had Halifax done so Mr S would have received a notification six weeks before his birthday 
and, I think he would  have  responded  as he did following  the receipt of other letters,  to 
allow the transfer to take place. I say that because the transfer eventually took around seven 
to eight weeks but allowing for the delays Halifax acknowledges it made during that time,  I 
think its reasonable to assume it could have been  completed in six weeks.  
Halifax has also questioned whether  Mr S would have received the six-week  letter,  bearing 
in mind the issue with the February 2018 letter. But I think  I need to take the position that 
Mr S would have received  the letter as he received most letters from Halifax from 2008 
onwards. In any case its not fair to question whether Mr S would have received the letter  if 
Halifax acknowledges it wasnt sent.  
Halifax also says it told Mr S it would contact him before his 75th birthday, which it did. So, it 
says it hadnt  done  anything wrong and shouldnt be held responsible  for any delay in the 
transfer. But I think if it had sent the six-week letter, which it accepts  that it didnt, then the 
transfer would more likely than not have  completed by the selected retirement date. 
So I think Halifax should compensate Mr S for any loss hes suffered as a result of the delay 
in his plan being transferred. Halifax didnt agree with my suggested  redress  as it said it 
could be difficult getting the information it required from the new provider. But I dont agree, 
and I think what Ive set out below is the fairest way to ensure Mr S is put as close  to the 
position hed now be in had the fund been  transferred  on his 75th birthday as it should have 
been.  
Ill set out my redress method below, but Mr S should be aware  that he wont  be required to 
complete the calculation  as Halifax should  advise him of the amount hell receive  if theres 
a loss. Although  Mr S might need  to give his authority for Halifax to approach his current  
drawdown provider  for the information  it needs.
Mr S has disputed  the amount of compensation Halifax paid him for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused, because he says Halifax treated  him unfairly  for over two months 
while the matter  was looked  into, and he doesnt  believe  the compensation paid is adequate. 
But I think the amount  paid is within  the range of what Id expect to see for errors such as the 
ones Halifax made, and I think the payment  was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of Mr Ss complaint. 
Ref: DRN83601735Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been contacted six weeks before  his selected retirement date.
I think Mr S would have contacted Halifax after receiving the letter and established a process 
which would have enabled his pension to be transferred by 7 June  2018.  Im satisfied  that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives 
when he invested.  
What should Halifax do?
To compensate Mr S fairly,  Halifax must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's pension now, had it been transferred on 
7 June 2018, with that of the current value.
If there is a loss, Halifax should pay into Mr S's pension  plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation  and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.  
If Halifax is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr S £200 for the disruption caused  to his retirement plans if it hasnt already 
done so.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Halifax deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken  off. Halifax should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
customs if appropriate.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that HBOS  Investment Fund Managers Limited 
represented by Halifax Financial Services Limited should pay the amount calculated  as set 
out above.
HBOS Investment Fund  Managers  Limited represented by Halifax  Financial Services  Limited 
Ref: DRN83601736should provide  details  of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83601737copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains that HBOS  Investment Fund Managers Limited represented by Halifax Financial  
Service Limited (Halifax) didnt make him aware  or give him sufficient time to explore the other options 
available when his pension plan ended on his 75th birthday. He says the time taken  to resolve  the 
matter meant he didnt  receive  any income  for a number of months. He says that as Halifax no longer 
offered the option of a post age 75 drawdown  plan, he had to find another  provider  at short  notice  
which caused  him significant  distress  and inconvenience. Hes also complained about the service  
Halifax provided during  the transfer which  he said meant he was badly let down .
background 
Mr S held a flexible retirement income plan with Halifax. The idea of the plan was to provide income 
through a drawdown  plan until age 75  when  Mr S either had to purchase an annuity, another 
drawdown plan with Halifax, or transfer to another provider.
But in 2011, because of the legislative  changes to drawdown after the age of 75, Halifax altered  the 
terms and conditions  (T&Cs) of the plan and sent out an endorsement to all plan holders. The 
endorsement confirmed  that if units were still held in the plan the day before a plan holders  75th 
birthday they would be sold and an annuity purchased. This was a change  as previously  under the 
same conditions  the plan reverted to an alternatively secured pension  (ASP) with no further income  
being payable. Halifax no longer offered that alternative. Mr S says he didnt receive this 
endorsement.
Halifax contacted Mr S in 2012 and 2017 to review the suitability of the plan for his circumstances.  
But no changes  were made.  Halifax continued  to issue annual pension statements,  the last of which 
was received by Mr S in July 2017.  
Halifax says it wrote  to Mr S in February 2018 noting the plan value and asking him to contact it 
before his 75th birthday to discuss his options. Mr S says he never received this letter. 
On 21 May 2018 Halifax wrote to Mr S to explain that, as his plan was due to end on his 75th birthday 
(17 days away) and he hadnt  confirmed his closing  request, his fund will therefore be frozen awaiting  
your decision. Mr S contacted Halifax on 22 May 2018 to explain that he wanted to transfer his 
benefits to another provider.
On 25 June 2018 Halifax again wrote to Mr S to confirm  that his fund value on 7 June 2018 was 
£127,298.58, and if he didnt advise which benefit he wanted to take within  8 days the fund would  be 
used to provide an annuity. Mr S contacted Halifax to confirm hed already told it he didnt want  an 
annuity and that it should have already  received the necessary discharge forms.  He said his new 
provider had already been in touch with him. Halifax said it would send out duplicate forms for Mr S to 
complete and begin the transfer process. Mr S said he was disappointed with the service hed been 
provided with and said he was losing  pension income because of this poor service and delay. 
But on 18 June 2018 Halifax  had already written  to the new provider  with a transfer value and 
discharge forms. 
On 4 July 2018 Mr S complained to Halifax. He said the annual statement hed received in July 2017 
confirmed that he had the option of taking out an annuity or a drawdown plan at age 75  and that 
Halifax would contact him prior to that date. But he said he heard no more until May 2018 when he 
received a letter saying he hadnt confirmed which option hed prefer. He said he confirmed hed like 
to transfer the plan to another provider but from that date he said he received  incorrect,  duplicitous 
and erroneous information  from Halifax, which delayed  the transfer and caused him to miss several 
months of income payments. 
Ref: DRN83601738Halifax agreed that its service had been poor and paid Mr S a total of £200 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused.  But it said it had sent Mr S a pre-retirement letter in 
February 2018  explaining  his options at age 75. It said it wasnt responsible if the letter  wasnt 
delivered. It didnt think it had done anything wrong  with regards to its instructions  prior to the end of 
the plan.
The funds for Mr Ss plan were sent to the new provider  on 20 July 2018.
Mr S remained unhappy and also complained that he hadnt received  an annual statement  even 
though the plan had now been transferred.  So he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He thought the complaint should be upheld in part  as although  
he couldnt see that Halifax had made any errors  regards  making Mr S aware of his options at age 75, 
and had disinvested the funds from the plan when  it said it would,  he did think  that the failure to send 
out the six week letter had caused Mr S to have to urgently find a new provider and this had delayed 
the transfer somewhat.  So he thought  Halifax ought to pay £350 for the impact this had on Mr S and 
the additional concern it caused.
Halifax didnt agree. It said it believed the payment  of £200 was appropriate for the level of distress 
and inconvenience caused  and thought the lack of a six-week letter would have  had limited impact.
Mr S didnt agree  either. He made the following points in response:
He didnt  receive either the letter with the endorsement from 2011 or the pre-retirement letter  
of February 2018. And Halifax  had been unable  to demonstrate  that it sent those letters. 
Halifax should  have  kept its file open while it was investigating his complaint so it should  have 
been able to provide  copies of those  letters  to him as evidence.
There were  other  instances of letters Halifax said it had sent not arriving or arriving late. He 
thought these raised  doubts  over whether Halifax  sent the other two letters. He thought the 
investigator suggested he wasnt being  truthful  about  their non-receipt.   
He didnt  think Halifax  made it clear  that it couldnt offer him a drawdown plan when  he 
passed the age of 75. He said none of its letters stated he would need to transfer to a 
different provider, and he didnt think the phrase  transfer to another pension arrangement  
was clear on that.
The investigator hadnt  taken into account the full extent of Halifaxs  poor service and errors  
from May 2018 onwards.
Halifax had enjoyed the benefit of any growth accrued on the plan until it was transferred to 
the new provider.  He wanted clarification of what had happened to this growth. 
He thought the offer of £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused was insufficient.  
The investigator reiterated  his view making  the following  points:
The endorsement letter that Halifax sent wasnt customer specific,  so it wasnt unreasonable  
for it to be issued  in the form of a general mailshot.
Evidence suggested Halifax did send the two letters.
Halifax took a commercial decision not to offer a drawdown plan for the over 75s. That was a 
matter for Halifax and it didnt have to provide such a product.
Halifax disinvested Mr Ss plan on 7 June 2018  as it said it would in its terms and 
conditions. Therefore,  no growth  was due on the plan from that date until it was transferred. 
The suggestion of £350  for the distress and inconvenience caused was based on the errors 
hed been able to evidence  particularly  the omission of the six week letter.  
But as both parties disagreed  with his recommendation the investigator said he would refer the 
complaint to an ombudsman. So its been passed to me for a review.
Ref: DRN83601739my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Did Halifax make Mr S aware  of the changes  to the plans  terms and conditions?
Halifax says it sent all customers who held such plans  an endorsement of changes  it made  to its 
T&Cs following  legislation in 2011.  The endorsement explained that Halifax had decided to withdraw  
its ASP options so that anyone over the age of 75 would have to take out an annuity with their funds  
on their 75th birthday. When the plan was set up in 2008 Halifax offered an ASP,  so I dont think it 
misled Mr S with his options  when he first started the plan. It was only following  a legislative change 
that it altered its position.
And Halifax was entitled to change/remove the products it offered  its customers  following  this 
legislation  thats entirely a matter for it to decide upon. But what  I would expect  is for Halifax to 
make people  aware of this change  which I think it did within the endorsement which  stated If you 
have a Flexible Retirement Income  Plan (Pre 75) and on the day before your 75th birthday there are 
still units linked to your plan then on that day:
we will cancel all of those units; 
pay their value, calculated using the relevant unit prices for that day, to the scheme 
administrator;  and
unless the scheme  administrator agrees otherwise, all of that value will be used to buy you 
an annuity as the scheme administrator reasonably  decides.
So I think Halifax was clear  in its actions  and this should have  made Mr S aware  of the changes  it had 
made. Unfortunately,  Mr S says he didnt receive  this endorsement and Halifax has been unable  to 
provide a copy of the individual letter he should have received. I think  its more  likely than not that 
Halifax did send the letter   as part of a bulk mailing to all affected clients.  So I cant  blame  Halifax if 
the endorsement  wasnt received, but at the same  time I cant  safely  say Mr S did receive the 
correspondence. I note Mr S has referred to not receiving a number of letters from Halifax. 
But even if Mr S didnt receive  that endorsement letter, he did receive his yearly drawdown statement 
from July 2017  which  said Its no longer a legislative requirement to buy an annuity by age 75. 
However, currently this plan can only continue until age 75. At that point you have the option  to buy 
an annuity with the remaining value  or, if you wish to continue taking your retirement  benefits as 
income drawdown, you may be able to transfer to another pension  arrangement. Well contact you 
before your 75th birthday  to explain what your options are. 
So, apart from the endorsement letter,  Mr S was made aware of what  would  happen  on his 75th 
birthday from the July 2017  statement. I would  then have  expected him to confirm his position  by 
contacting Halifax  if he didnt want an annuity and preferred to transfer to another drawdown plan. 
Mr S says he took this statement to mean that he could take out another drawdown plan with Halifax  
 not that hed need  to find another provider.  And I have some sympathy for Mr S here and can 
understand why he might  have assumed  he wouldnt  need to spend his time researching  alternative 
providers. But I cant say that Halifax did suggest he would be able to take out a plan with it at that 
point. It was clearly  stated  that you may able to transfer to another  pension arrangement which  
doesnt indicate Halifax had a specific  suitable plan available for Mr S. 
But it follows that if Mr S had contacted Halifax  at that point,  as Ive suggested that he might have,  he 
would have discovered that his only option was to have transferred to another  provider. Although  Mr S 
has told us he would have  kept his funds  with Halifax  if it offered such a plan as he was happy with 
the existing funds performance  and returns. So I dont think its entirely  clear  that he would have 
transferred until around his 75th birthday anyway. I think he was more likely to have undertaken the 
necessary investigation in far more depth to find another provider that he was happy to transfer his 
plan to.
Ref: DRN836017310So I cant safely say Halifax has failed to try to make Mr S aware of the changes  to his plan, even 
though I dont  dispute that Mr S might  not have received the letters in question. And I think those  
changes would, at the very least, have explained exactly what  his options would  be at age 75. 
The level of compensation paid
However, I do think Halifax could  have  been  clearer  in some of its explanations and it didnt always 
provide correct information to Mr S. In particular,  as Mr S pointed out, it took Halifax around six 
months to make him aware of the 2011 endorsement letter during the time he was making his 
complaint. 
Mr S says he feels badly let down  by Halifax  and that it didnt answer his complaint fully and was 
slow to respond. 
And Ive seen the number of errors Halifax made, particularly during June 2018, when it seemed to be 
unaware of conversations it had with him and duplicated information and requests within letters  that it 
shouldnt have sent. Mr S has been clear in listing  the mistakes Halifax  made  and Ive carefully 
considered the individual requests he made to Halifax to answer his points. But when considered 
overall, I think Halifax has acknowledged  its mistakes and accepted that its overall  level of service 
was poor. It offered Mr S compensation of £200 for the impact these  errors had on him and I dont 
take lightly  the frustration  and concern  Mr S would have suffered during this time.  
Mr S has said he thinks this offer is derisory and I understand his feelings  given the losses he 
considers the Halifaxs lack of care and diligence  has caused. However, having  carefully  considered 
the matter and taking everything into account,  I think this is a fair and reasonable offer and within  the 
range of what Id expect  to see for an error  such as this. So Im not going to ask Halifax to do any 
more.
The missing six-week  letter
Whilst Ive decided that the combination of correspondence Halifax sent Mr S ought to have made  him 
aware of his options  when he reached age 75  and allowed him to prepare for that eventuality,  it did 
nonetheless tell Mr S that it would write  to you again in a few weeks before your retirement date to 
remind you to let us know what you want to do. And I dont think  it was reasonable  to expect  Mr S to 
remember to act on information he received  many months before  the plan was due to end. Ive 
already said that I believe  Mr S was happy with his Halifax plan and probably  wouldnt have 
transferred until he had to.
So I think Mr S had every  right to rely on Halifax  reminding  him, prior to the retirement date, of what  
he needed to do. But Halifax  has accepted that it omitted to send this letter six weeks before the 
retirement date. So the next time that Mr S heard from Halifax was in its letter of 21 May 2018, which 
didnt give either party enough time to complete  the transfer by the retirement  date. 
Ive taken into account that, in all the instances Ive seen where Halifax has written to Mr S  and its 
been confirmed that he received the letters, hes responded  reasonably quickly. So Ive no reason  to 
think he wouldnt have  done  so here.  I think  that if Halifax had sent the six-week pre-retirement  letter  
to Mr S he would have  contacted Halifax soon  afterwards and confirmed that he wanted to transfer  to 
a different provider. Whether or not hed already done  his research on alternative providers  I believe 
this would  have enabled the transfer to have completed by the retirement  date.
I say that because when Mr S did contact Halifax  following the May 2018 letter,  his transfer, although  
delayed by Halifaxs errors during June  2018, still completed  by 20 July 2018. So I think, allowing for 
those errors, its reasonable  to conclude that the transfer could still have  taken place  on the 
retirement date, following  the six-week  letter. Therefore, I think Halifax  needs to calculate the position  
Mr S would be in now had his transfer to the new provider  completed on 7 June 2018. 
Ref: DRN836017311I know Mr S would like me to go further and consider  the growth  he could have  obtained on his 
Halifax plan if it had remained invested.  But I think Halifax made  it clear in the T&Cs that the plan 
would be disinvested on the plan holders  75th birthday, so I dont think it did anything wrong there.  
I know Mr S has also complained about the income  payments he said he lost while the plan remained 
with Halifax.  But if I say that he should be compensated for the growth  his plan would have received if 
it had been transferred on time, he wont have lost out financially on the income payments as they still 
remained within his fund.
 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should  be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would  probably now be in 
if he had been made aware of his retirement  date and options from the six-week  pre-retirement 
letter.
I think  Mr S would have contacted  Halifax and established  a process which would  have enabled his 
pension transfer to have  completed by 7 June  2018.  Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr S' circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Halifax do?
To compensate Mr S fairly,  Halifax must:
Compare the value of Mr S's pension now, had it been  transferred on 7 June 2018,  with that 
of the current value.
If there  is a loss, Halifax should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation  should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Halifax is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr S's actual or expected marginal  rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr S is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would  have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation. 
Pay Mr S £200 for the disruption caused to his retirement plans.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Halifax  deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Halifax  should give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. My provisional  decision is that HBOS Investment  Fund 
Management Limited  T/A Halifax should pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8360173