K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax   Halifax) should  refund 
money as the second hand  BMW he purchased was not as described.
background
Mr H brought a second hand car and paid the deposit using his credit  card.  He said that the 
car's alloy wheels were  badly damaged and didnt live up to the minimum standards  for this 
make of car. It was dirty at the time so he hadn't been able to inspect  the wheels before 
making the purchase. He also complains  that Halifax took a long time to investigate  his 
complaint.
Halifax initially refunded  £1,000 while it investigated  his complaint. Following investigation 
the funds were returned to the merchant  on the basis that Mr H signed  for the car. 
The adjudicator did not uphold the complaint under section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. She did not feel there had been  a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. Mr H 
brought the car after he viewed a video of the salesperson filming  around the car who said 
the wheels were pristine. The adjudicator  accepted this was said and Mr H relied on it, but 
she pointed out that what one person might  consider  to be pristine can vary greatly  from the 
opinion of another. Furthermore, the car was second  hand  and she did not believe the 
pictures showed significant  damage  to the alloy wheels such that they were of unsatisfactory  
quality. Also Mr H had the opportunity to inspect the car when he purchased  it, even though 
it was dirty. She did not think there had been any misrepresentation. Halifax  has paid £75 in 
recognition of the time it took to consider his complaint which  she thought  was adequate...
Mr H was not happy with the view, he pointed out that the car was not pristine as described 
by the salesman; the car was scratched and needs  a refurbishment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974, the credit card company  is jointly  and 
severally liable for any breach of contract  or misrepresentation  by the retailer.  However, 
there must be either  a breach of contract  or misrepresentation. I have carefully  considered 
all the evidence including the colour photographs of the scratches.  I agree with the 
adjudicator that these  scratches do not show significant damage to the alloy wheels. 
Furthermore, although the salesman  said the wheels were  pristine, this did not necessarily 
mean that they were free from any marks or scratches. This is a subjective assessment and 
I would expect that Mr H to inspect the car before purchase to see if it met his standards.  
Mr H was not buying a new car and could not expect a second hand car to be in the same 
condition as a brand new car. He also had the opportunity of inspecting  the car on purchase 
(even though the car was dirty)  and I note that he signed for it.
I do not find that there was any misrepresentation by the retailer or any breach of contract. 
Halifax is not liable to pay any compensation. I note that Halifax  has paid Mr H £75 for the 
way it dealt with the complaint and I find this is sufficient compensation for the way the 
complaint was handled.
Ref: DRN81128472my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Clare Hockney
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8112847