K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI) decision to reject  a claim he 
made under his motor insurance policy. 
background
In October 2019, Mr J was away on business.  He had advertised his car for sale on online 
websites and asked  his mum to help with any queries from potential buyers whilst he was 
out of the country.
A potential buyer visited Mr Js home to look at the car. Mr Js mum showed him the car 
and offered the opportunity for him to take a test drive, but he declined. Mr J said the 
potential buyer did start the car using  the push start button and asked for the key, but 
Mr Js mum didnt hand it over and kept it on her person.
Mr J said the potential  buyer asked his mum  how many keys the car had. Mr Js mum said 
she told him the car had two; one she had on her person and another in the house. The 
potential buyer then asked Mr Js mum to look at the cars V5 document  which was inside 
the house.
Mr Js mum said whilst  she and the potential buyer were in the house, she asked him if 
he wanted to speak  to her son about the car. She said at this point she had placed the 
key that was on her person onto the table whilst she phoned Mr J. Mr J and the potential 
buyer spoke  for a few minutes. The potential buyer said he was interested  in the car but 
needed to go away and come back later.  The potential buyer then left.
Mr J then said his mum was approached by a neighbour who said they had seen Mr Js 
car being driven off. Mr J said his mum thought  the potential buyer had swapped the key 
she had left on the table with a different one, whilst she was phoning Mr J.
Mr J contacted UKI to make a theft claim.  UKI originally accepted the claim and the 
assessor gave him a figure of the market  value. But when Mr J chased  payment, he was 
told that UKI had reconsidered  its position and declined the claim. It said the policy  
excluded theft if it happened because of trickery by a potential  buyer  and this is what  had 
happened.
Mr J disputed this. He was unhappy UKI declined the claim after saying it would accept  it.
And he thinks UKI should pay it. So, he brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He agreed  with Mr J that
UKI had unfairly  applied  the fraud or trickery exclusion. He didnt think  Mr Js mum  gave the 
potential buyer control of the key and so UKI should pay Mr Js claim plus interest   subject 
to the remaining policy terms.
Mr J agreed with our investigator, but UKI didnt. It maintained  that the car was stolen by 
trickery, as the potential buyer had tricked his way into Mr Js property and the key was left 
unattended. So it felt the exclusion applied.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 November 2019 and my findings are set out below.  
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN80703872Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy  covers theft. And there is a clause in it which reads  as follows:
Section C Fire and theft
What is not covered
We will not cover:
    loss or damage to your car as a result  of someone acquiring it by fraud  or 
trickery while pretending to be a buyer;
Theres no doubt that Mr J had his car stolen by someone pretending to be a potential  
buyer. And I dont  think the potential buyer was an opportunist given  the circumstances 
that unfolded leading to Mr Js car being stolen. I say this because  the potential  buyer  
appeared to have a suitable  second set of keys on their person and was able to swap  those 
with the keys Mr Js mum had been  using.  So I think the potential  buyer  always  intended to 
steal Mr Js car.
I think for the clause to apply to situations  where a thief tricks someone into handing over 
the keys, relinquishing control of the car or to steal the keys,  its appropriate  to consider 
whether the policyholder or their representative  did everything  they could to protect the car 
when in the process of selling  it. This is because, generally, I dont think  it produces  a fair 
and reasonable outcome to allow an insurer to rely on this type of clause where  the seller  
did take all the reasonable steps they could.
This is on the basis that I see clauses about  theft by non-financial or financial trickery or 
deception as aimed  at situations  where the seller is careless, and this leads to the theft.  
Motor insurance policies are meant to cover genuine thefts and policyholders would expect 
to be covered in situations where  theyve  done  everything they possibly could to prevent 
this happening.
Mr Js mum allowed the potential buyer to sit in the car and turn on the engine by using the 
start button. However, she kept the key on her person at all times up to the point she tried 
to contact Mr J when both she and the potential buyer were in the house.
Based on whats been  said, it seems  that it was only at that point that Mr Js mum placed the
keys onto the table.  It also seems  that this is when  the potential  buyer was able to take the 
keys and replace  them  with a different set he had on his person. And, while I have noted 
UKIs comments on this, which  seem to suggest  Mr Js mother leaving the keys unattended 
wasnt reasonable, I dont  agree. I think it was reasonable of her to put the keys on the table, 
when she had no idea (and it would not occur to most people) that the thief had a set of keys 
he could use to make  a switch.
Because Im not in agreement  with UKI that Mr Js mum acted carelessly  which enabled 
the potential buyer to swap the keys and steal the car, I think it should  pay the claim.
I also think Mr J experienced distress and inconvenience  given  he was under the 
impression the claim  would succeed. Mr J was given  a figure by the assessor for his car 
and told payment would be made, meaning UKI was prepared to accept  the claim. But only 
when Mr J contacted  UKI to chase the payment,  he was informed his claim wouldnt 
succeed.
Ref: DRN80703873So I think UKI should pay Mr J £100 for the distress and inconvenience  he experienced as 
a result of the poor way the claim was handled  and because his expectations werent 
properly managed.
my provisional decision  
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and make U K Insurance  
Limited do the following:
pay Mr Js claim;  subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
include 8% simple  interest from the date of the loss, to the date of settlement on any 
amount it pays in settlement of Mr Js claim; and
pay him £100 for the trouble and upset caused
the responses to my provisional  decision 
Mr J responded to say he agreed with my provisional decision.  But UKI disagreed. It referred 
to when Mr Js mum placed the key on the table and said that a reasonable person would 
have either  kept the key on their person at all times, or be in a position  to see the key at all 
times in order to prevent the theft. So UKI asked where Mr Js mum was at the time the key 
was swapped by the thief. 
Our investigator got more detail on what happened  when  the thief was in her home. Shes 
said she had put the car key on table at the point she used her phone to contact Mr J. She 
said the thief then asked  about the spare key. At this point she said she turned around whilst 
sitting on a chair at the table to reach  for the spare  key that was behind her. She said she 
never left the room,  and the thief wasnt left alone  in the house at any point. Mr Js mum said 
at the point she turned around, its likely the thief used  this opportunity to swap the key with 
a different one. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked at the argument UKI made  that Mr Js mum didnt take reasonable steps to 
safeguard the key and didnt act as though  a reasonable person would by leaving it on the 
table. But I dont agree  with it on this point and this means  it doesnt  change my view on the 
fair and reasonable outcome to this case.   
I think Mr Js mum  took reasonable steps  in all the circumstances leading up to the theft.  
She believed  she was facilitating  a sale to help her son who was abroad at the time.  I dont 
think she relinquished control of the car or the key to the thief. The thief deliberately 
distracted her by asking  about the second key. And at this point its seems more likely than 
not that he was able to make the swap. 
As the key was swapped with a key the thief had on his person,  Mr Js mum wouldnt have 
been aware that the thief had taken the key she put on the table   given a key would have 
remained on the table.   
Ref: DRN80703874Therefore, it remains my view that allowing UKI to rely on the fraud and trickery exclusion to 
decline Mr Js claim would  not produce  a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint. Mr J 
was a victim  of a genuine theft and I think his mum did all that she reasonably could to 
safeguard the car. She could never  have  had any idea (and it wouldnt occur to most  people) 
that the thief had a key on his person  that he would use to make a swap with the key she 
had used to show  him the car. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is I uphold  
Mr Js complaint. And I require U K Insurance Limited to do the following: 
pay Mr Js claim;  subject to the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy; 
include 8% simple  interest from the date of the loss, to the date of settlement on any 
amount it pays in settlement of Mr Js claim; and 
pay him £100 for the trouble and upset  caused 
HM Revenue & Customs  requires U K Insurance Limited to take off tax from this interest. U 
K Insurance  Limited  must give Mr J a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he 
asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Liam Hickey 
Ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN8070387