K820x#14Complaint
Mr P2 has complained  that Nationwide Building  Society wont  refund fraudulent transactions  
on the late Mr P1s account.
Mr P2 is the executor and authorised representative  of the estate of the late Mr P1. 
R, a claims management company, represents  Mr P2.
Background
Sadly, Mr P1 passed  away  earlier this year.
In 2014, Mr P1 appointed his son, Mr P2, as an attorney under a lasting power  of attorney 
after showing signs of dementia. 
In 2017, Mr P2 complained to Nationwide  about  multiple payments to Western  Union, which 
were made with his fathers credit card between April and July 2013.  He  also disputed  a 
payment to a timeshare  company in Spain.
Mr P2 said the payments were scam payments. He believes his father had responded to 
cold calls from bogus merchants and businesses who didnt provide him with any goods or 
services. 
His representative, R, said Nationwide  failed in its duty of care towards Mr P1 because  it 
didnt check or verify the payments with him, even though they were  unusual for the account. 
Mr P2 asked  Nationwide to refund the disputed payments.
Nationwide investigated  his complaint but decided against a refund.  It said Mr P1 authorised 
the payments  and it had no reason to suspect fraud. It also said it was too late to investigate  
where the Western Union payments went,  or whether Mr P1 had, in fact, received good or 
services. 
Mr P2 wasnt  happy with Nationwides decision and so he asked  this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into Mr P2s complaint but he didnt uphold it. He felt unable to 
conclude that the payments were fraudulent. And he said there  were  no obvious warning 
signs of fraud or unusual  activity on the account. 
Mr P2 and R disagreed  with the investigators opinion. They believe Nationwide  should  have 
done more to protect Mr P1s account. They have asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN86659862Having done so, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold the complaint, for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator.
The starting position in law is that a bank or building society is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.  And 
I have taken that into account  when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
The relevant  regulations  in this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2009.
The regulations also require banks and building societies to refund any payments which  a 
customer didnt authorise.  So, when we look at whether a bank or building  society  has acted  
fairly in rejecting a fraud complaint, one of the things  we must consider is whether the 
customer made the transactions themselves. If they did, then we wouldnt normally  be 
asking the business to refund the transactions. 
So, my primary  concern is to decide whether or not I think Mr P1 authorised  the disputed 
payments. 
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr P1 made the disputed payments himself. And theres 
no suggestion that someone  else got hold of his card and made them.
I am satisfied, therefore, that Mr P1 authorised  the transactions.
I understand Mr P2s concerns about the merchants.  However, Im afraid it doesnt matter  
that his father didnt  receive any goods or services,  or that the merchants werent genuine. 
Mr P1 is still treated as having consented  to the payments, under the relevant regulations,  by 
providing his card details  to the merchants. 
It follows, therefore, that Nationwide is entitled to refuse a refund.
Should Nationwide have done more?
The regulations are not the only consideration.
Regulated firms like Nationwide are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests  
of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice, I consider firms should also take proactive steps 
to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice.  
However, this code into effect after the disputed payments were made).
Ref: DRN86659863This means  that there are circumstances where  a bank  or building society  should, in my 
opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional  steps,  or make additional checks,  before 
processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial  harm.   
So, to help me decide if Nationwide  should have done more to protect Mr P1, Ive looked at 
the account history, the transactions  and what Nationwide knew  about Mr P1.
Nationwide didnt know that Mr P1 had dementia or that he might  have been vulnerable.  In 
fact, I can see from Nationwides file that he had raised complaints with it about  a timeshare 
purchase. The complaint wasnt a fraud complaint  but a consumer credit complaint. Based 
on their contact with him, I think it was reasonable for it to assume  he could manage his 
financial affairs. 
So, I dont consider it was obvious to Nationwide that he might  have  been  vulnerable.
R says that Nationwide should have  carried out due diligence  checks on Mr P1s account  
because the disputed payments were unusual for the account,  especially the payments to 
Western Union which he had never used before.
From the statements, I can see Mr P1 hadnt used Western  Union before 2013.  However,  
Western Union is a commonly  used  business.  I cant assume that a transaction is fraudulent 
just because it is made through Western Union. And as Ive said above,  a bank or building  
society is expected  to process payments  and withdrawals that a customer  authorises.  
Mr P1 did make international payments, so even though he hadnt  used Western  Union 
before, the behaviour was consistent with the way he used his account.   Unfortunately,  the 
difficulty here is that theres  no evidence showing where the payments went.
Similarly, the disputed  payment to the Spanish  timeshare business  was consistent with 
previous transactions to Spain. I appreciate Mr P2 believes  Nationwide  should have checked  
the business, but it wasnt normal  industry  practice at the time to check  the merchants 
names, only the account number and sort code.
In summary,  I dont think there were any obvious warning  signs  of fraud or abuse  which  
should have prompted Nationwide to verify  the payments with Mr P1.
Ultimately, Mr P1 instructed Nationwide to make  the payments. I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Nationwide to follow those instructions. But even if it had verified the 
payments with him, I think  its more than likely that he would have confirmed  they were  
genuine. Moreover, he didnt mention these disputed payments with Nationwide  when he 
raised his other complaints in 2013.
In these circumstances, I think Nationwides decision not to refund the disputed payments  is 
a fair and reasonable one.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr P2 and the family, but I hope the reasons for 
my decision  are clear. I would also like to offer my condolences to him and to thank him for 
his patience while we looked into his case.
Ref: DRN86659864My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P2 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8665986