K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about advice  he was given by Consumer Wealth  Limited to switch his 
personal pensions  into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP),  and make  investments. He 
says he asked another advisor to review  the recommendations  from Consumer Wealth  after 
he became worried  and now understands half his money was invested  into a discretionary 
portfolio which  contained  high risk illiquid  assets  which were unsuitable for him. And that the 
other half might have initially been suitably invested,  but was then switched into funds which  
had high charges  associated  with them. 
background
In 2015 Mr W held two personal pensions, with a large life assurance business. He says 
received an unsolicited call from someone  at Consumer Wealth,  who told him it could make 
his funds work harder  for him, by putting  them into a different kind of pension arrangement.  
Consumer Wealth undertook a fact-finding exercise.  The fact-find recorded that Mr W had no 
investments other than a personal  pension (initially the details of only one personal  pension 
were known, but Mr W later provided details  of the second pension), but was a member of 
his employers pension  scheme. It also recorded that Mr W had no other  savings or 
investments, and that Consumer Wealth considered him to be a medium  risk investor. 
Consumer Wealth recommended that Mr W transfer  his personal pension  to a SIPP, and 
invest half the money in the Vanguard  60% Equity  Lifestrategy Fund and half in the 
Greyfriars Portfolio Six discretionary  management service. Initially,  only one of Mr Ws 
personal pensions  was transferred. The second followed later, once  Mr W found the details 
of it. The same recommendation was given in relation to that pension, and around  £65,000  
was switched to the SIPP  in total. The first switch  and investment completed in November 
2015 and the second in April 2016. The Vanguard  fund was later switched into two other  
funds  Elite CAM Cautious and Balanced.  
Consumer Wealth did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said the investments had performed 
well and were suitable for Mr W. 
Our adjudicator looked into things and concluded that the complaint should be upheld.  He 
said, in summary:
There was insufficient justification for switching the personal pensions  to the SIPP, 
given the value of the personal pensions and the charges associated with the SIPP. 
Mr W had limited investment experience, and should not have been exposed  to more 
risk than that associated with his existing personal  pensions. 
The Greyfriars portfolio was higher  risk  it contained things like bonds  investing in 
US real estate - and was not suitable  for Mr W. 
The adjudicator asked Consumer Wealth to compare the position  Mr W was in now, to the 
position he would be in had he left his pension arrangements  as they were. He said,  when 
doing this, Consumer Wealth should  assume the Greyfriars investment had no realisable  
value. 
Consumer Wealth did not accept this view. It said, in summary:
Ref: DRN88525972The Greyfriars investment gave  diversification to Mr Ws pension investments, which 
is something he has benefitted from. 
The bonds held in the Greyfriars investment have a value and are still paying  
coupons. 
There was a balance  between the other investments which  were equity linked and 
the Greyfriars one, which  was bond linked. 
Greyfriars had rated the Portfolio Six as being medium  risk. 
The SIPP had outperformed Mr Ws personal pensions. So there was no financial 
loss.
It was willing to offer Mr W £500  in settlement  of his complaint.  
Our adjudicator considered this response,  but was not persuaded to change  his view.  He 
said the Greyfriars investment contained  unregulated  illiquid bonds, which were clearly  
unsuitable for Mr W. He also pointed out that, in his view, the comparison of the costs 
associated with the personal pension  and SIPP which Consumer Wealth  had provided  was 
misleading, as it did not take account of everything. He also said that he did not think  the 
Greyfriars investment had any realisable value, and that compensation should  be calculated  
on that basis. 
Consumer Wealth maintained that the Greyfriars  investment had an actual value. It also said 
that it should be remembered that Mr W was not investing directly in the bonds  held in the 
Greyfriars portfolio  he was investing through  a FCA regulated  manager. It thought this 
distinction was important. 
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019.  My provisional findings  were, in summary:
When giving advice  to Mr W, Consumer Wealth had to meet  a number of obligations, 
set by the Conduct of Business (COBS) rules. Broadly speaking,  those rules meant 
Consumer Wealth had to know  Mr W and give suitable advice which was in his best 
interests. Having considered the available evidence, I thought  Consumer Wealth 
failed to meet that latter obligation, as its advice was not suitable.  
Like the adjudicator,  I thought the advice to switch from the personal pensions to the 
SIPP was unsuitable. The SIPP  was a more expensive arrangement overall and, 
given the value of his personal pensions, the features of a SIPP were unlikely to have  
been of significant benefit to Mr W. 
I also thought  the advice  on the investment of the money switched into the SIPP was 
unsuitable. Mr W was assessed  as being  a medium risk investor. I thought  that was a 
reasonable assessment. He wanted  to achieve  some growth,  but only had limited  
pension savings. So, whilst some risk may have  been suitable,  Mr W could not afford  
to take significant risk. 
When viewed overall, the investments recommended by Consumer Wealth did carry 
significant risk. The Vanguard and CAM investments  may have  been  suitable for Mr 
Ref: DRN88525973W when considered  in isolation. But, when  combined with the Greyfriars investment, 
they produced  an overall investment which was not suitable for Mr W. 
It appeared the Greyfriars Portfolio Six was made up of what are commonly 
described as mini bonds  which were connected  to esoteric  enterprises  such as 
Cape Verdean holiday resorts, south eastern US real estate, car parks  and green  
energy. I understood that theses  bonds were  not listed on a recognised market and 
offered relatively  high returns. 
Whilst I accepted Consumer Wealth was not responsible for the selection of the 
investments in the Greyfriars portfolio, it did have to ensure the suitability of a 
portfolio which  had the objective  of investing in assets of this type for Mr W. And I 
thought Consumer Wealth ought  to have known that Greyfriars intended to invest in 
such assets, and that the Portfolio Six investment was therefore clearly  unsuitable for 
a large part of Mr Ws modest pension provision. 
Consumer Wealth had referred to information  given  to it by Greyfriars which 
described Portfolio  Six as a medium risk investment. That information appeared to 
post-date Mr Ws investments. But it was, in any event, for Consumer Wealth to 
ensure the suitability  of the Greyfriars portfolio for Mr W. And I was satisfied  that, at 
the time of Consumer  Wealths  advice, there  was sufficient information available to it 
for it to be reasonably  aware that Portfolio Six was not a suitable investment for a 
large part of Mr Ws pension,  as it involved significant risk. 
Mr W did not make any comments on my provisional  findings.  Consumer Wealth  did not 
accept my findings. It said, in summary:
It is not correct to say the SIPP was more expensive than Mr Ws previous pension.  It 
was cheaper.  It has not been  explained what it did not take into account when 
comparing the SIPP to the previous pension. Ive referred  to the adjudicator finding 
that everything was not taken into account.  But Ive not explained what  everything 
is. 
The bonds held in the portfolio were  marketed as standard assets. The overall 
investment was suitable for Mr W. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to depart  from my provisional  findings.  
I did not repeat the adjudicators views  in detail in my provisional  decision, as they have 
been seen by both parties, and a summary  of the views was provided as background only.  
However, for completeness, and to be clear, when I refer to the adjudicator having 
concluded that everything had not been  taken into account when considering charges, I am 
referring to his second view letter of 3 July 2018. In that letter  the adjudicator explained that 
he thought it was misleading for Consumer Wealth to say the SIPP  was cheaper, as the 
comparison it had made did not take into account  any advice charges i.e. the initial or 
ongoing charges,  which  were  significant. And it didnt  take into account the exit charges 
applied by Mr Ws existing pension provider. 
Ref: DRN88525974In response to this, in an email dated 16 July 2018, Consumer Wealth  provided  copies  of 
what it said were  outputs from a price comparison system. I have  not seen the detail of what  
was input to the price  comparison system,  so I do not know  if everything has been 
appropriately taken  account of. But, assuming it has, these outputs do not support 
Consumer Wealths position.  They show  that when the initial cost of the switch is taken into 
account, and the ongoing  advice fee, the SIPP is more expensive, albeit only slightly  so. 
I appreciate Consumer Wealth feels Mr W got better value from the SIPP  as his previous 
pension did not offer any ongoing advice service. But Ive not seen any evidence to show 
Consumer Wealth gave  any ongoing  advice of value to Mr W. So I do not accept the switch 
the SIPP was justifiable on the basis that it offered  Mr W a better service. 
In any event, cost isnt the only issue.  The overall  advice to switch to the SIPP must be 
considered  so the reason for the switch must be considered as well as the switch  itself. 
Here, the reason for the switch was to make investments in an investment  fund and the 
Greyfriars portfolio. And I remain satisfied these  investments, overall, were not suitable for 
Mr W. So the advice to switch to the SIPP  to make them was not suitable  and that is the 
case whatever view is taken on cost. 
Mr W was an investor  of limited experience with a modest pension provision. He should  not 
have been exposed to any significant  risk. But the investments the switch to the SIPP was 
made to facilitate did expose  him to significant  risk. The inclusion of the Greyfriars portfolio 
meant Mr Ws overall exposure to risk was much higher than was suitable for him. 
Consumer Wealth does  not accept his. It has referred  to it being reasonable to consider  the 
investments that the portfolio intended  to make  to be standard assets, as defined  by the 
FCA. 
The agreement Mr W signed with Greyfrairs included the following:
Your financial adviser has advised and you have agreed that Portfolio Six - a portfolio of 
uncorrelated and often unquoted assets  - is appropriate for you to hold.
.Our discretion also extends to unregulated investments, such as direct  investments into 
commercial property or unquoted corporate bonds, but these investments will not be 
"Unregulated Collective  Investment Schemes" (UCIS) or "Non Mainstream
Pooled Investments" (NMPI). Exposure to these investments  may be 100% in Portfolio  Six.
The portfolio  will have  one dealing date per month (as close as possible to the 15th day) and 
it may be difficult or impossible to sell some  investments at a reasonable price or in some 
circumstances at any price at all.
Given the nature of the underlying holdings, which are often unquoted it may be difficult to 
get an accurate  valuation  of investments at any period in time and in such  instances,  
investments will be valued,  where  appropriate, at par.
It is difficult to see how,  in the light of this, Consumer Wealth concluded  that the portfolio 
would invest solely in standard assets. But, setting that aside, I think it ought to have been 
clear from this  and the other available information  that the portfolio was wholly unsuitable 
for the investment of around half of Mr Ws pension, whether the asset could be considered 
standard or not. It was clear that the portfolio could be invested entirely in unregulated illiquid 
assets. So, acting  fairly  and reasonably,  Consumer Wealth ought  to have concluded that 
Ref: DRN88525975combining the portfolio and the funds would produce  an investment which was unsuitable for 
Mr W. 
In summary,  for the reasons given here and in my provisional decision,  I think  the advice 
Consumer Wealth gave  Mr W was unsuitable  and that it is therefore  fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.  
fair compensation
My aim to put Mr W as closely as possible to the position he would  probably  now be in if he 
had been given suitable advice. Ive not seen  any evidence that Mr W was actively seeking 
to make any changes to his pensions, and he says the contact from Consumer Wealth  was 
unsolicited. So I think it more likely than not that Mr W would  have kept his existing personal  
pensions, but for Consumer Wealths  unsuitable  advice. 
So, to compensate Mr W, Consumer Wealth should  compare the current notional transfer 
value of Mr Ws personal pensions, had they not been moved,  to the current notional 
transfer value  of the SIPP, and pay the difference. 
When carrying out the comparison any additional sum paid into the investment should  be 
added from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal,  income or other 
distribution out of the investment should  be deducted at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
The problems with the Greyfriars Portfolio  Six investment are well publicised.  It may have a 
paper value but it does  not have a realisable  one, owing to the nature of the assets  held, 
for which there is little or no market. So it is fair for the above  comparison to be conducted  
on the basis of the Greyfriars Portfolio Six having  nil value. That way it is Consumer Wealth  
that has to bear the consequences  of the unsuitable advice, not Mr W. Had Mr W not been 
given unsuitable  advice his pension would be liquid,  so that is the position he should  be put 
in now. 
I appreciate the Greyfriars Portfolio Six might pay a return in future. So, in return  for the 
compensation, Consumer Wealth may ask Mr W to provide an undertaking to pay it any 
amount he may receive from the Portfolio Six investment  in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension. Consumer Wealth will need to meet  any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Consumer Wealth should pay the compensation into Mr W's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.  
If Consumer Wealth is unable to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension  plan,  it should  pay 
the amount direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, if Mr W would have been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
Ref: DRN88525976should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
I understand Mr W paid Consumer Wealth a fee for its advice. If that fee was paid out of the 
pension, it will be encompassed  by the above comparison. If it was not, Consumer Wealth  
should refund the fee to Mr W, as it would  not be fair for it to keep a fee received for 
unsuitable advice.  The refund should  include interest, at 8% simple, from the date the fee 
was paid to the date of payment. 
I also think Mr W has suffered a significant  amount of trouble and upset as a result  of 
Consumer Wealths unsuitable advice. He has clearly been  worried about his pension, and I 
think it will have  concerned him to see a lot of his money invested in unusual illiquid assets 
which it would be very difficult for an inexperienced  retail investor such as him to understand. 
The adjudicator suggested £200 compensation for this, but I remain of the view a sum of 
£500 should be paid, given the amounts involved and the impact  it has clearly had on Mr W. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold the complaint. Consumer Wealth Limited should calculate  
and pay compensation as described above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8852597