K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  card application form completed at the 
time. There was a Yes  and a No box in a section about PPI. To get the cover  Mr W had to 
tick the Yes box and sign that part of the form. The Yes box is ticked  and Mr W has signed 
underneath it. This indicates that Mr W wanted the cover and agreed to it. And it indicates  
that this was something Mr W knew, or ought to have known, that he could say No to.
So having  taken everything into account,  I think Halifax  made  it clear  that Mr W didnt have 
to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this now many years later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  from or limits to the PPI cover. 
And I think that Mr W seems to have  had a need  for the cover. I say that because Mr W told 
us he had only modest sick pay and no other means  he could rely on. The policy could have 
paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful  claim if he was too ill to work,  or if 
he lost his job, so I think  Mr W would have  found the policy  useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88105152
Ref: DRN8810515