K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains through her solicitor  that NRAM Limited has not dealt with her fairly in 
regard to her mortgage shortfall. Ms M says she has used  her best efforts  to resolve the 
matter and wants NRAM to engage properly to resolve the matter.
background
Ms M had a mortgage  on a property with another  in joint names  and another  unsecured  
loan. They sold the property in 2011 but the whole mortgage wasnt  redeemed  and neither 
was the loan. NRAM says that the balance due to October 2011 was £37,338.96. Ms M 
made some payments until May 2012 but these  stopped and the account was passed to 
NRAMs loss recovery team when interest also stopped. The balance then was £38,885.16.  
NRAM says that there was a remediation which reduced the balance  of the account to 
£33,807.12 which it says is now due. 
In her complaint form Ms M says that:
NRAM failed to provide any details or documents to support its claim that Ms M owed 
a debt as a result of a mortgage  shortfall
NRAM has harassed Ms M with text messages
NRAM isnt pursuing  the other former joint owner  of the property.
NRAM said that it had provided sufficient documentation  to prove that this debt was due by 
Ms M. It also said that the information  it supplied to the credit reference agencies  was 
correct. It accepted that it hadnt responded to Ms Ms query about her credit  file and to 
some correspondence  from the solicitor  and apologised for that. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint as he believed that NRAM had supplied  
sufficient information  to support the existing  debt. He also felt that NRAM wasnt  harassing 
Ms M by text as they were  trying  to contact the other  party  to the mortgage.  Ms Ms solicitor  
disagreed saying in summary:
NRAM took too long to respond to letters from NRAMs solicitor
The adjudicator  made  no comments about NRAM upholding Ms Ms complaint in part
NRAM has a letter of authority from Ms M to deal with her solicitor  and should only 
contact them
NRAM hasnt provided a breakdown of the balance  of £33,807.12
NRAM do not provide  information as to how the credit file was updated.
Its not Ms Ms fault that NRAM are unable to say whose phone  number  belongs  to 
whom
NRAM denied sending  text messages  but clearly did,
NRAMs statements are inconsistent and dont allow Ms M to engage with NRAM to 
get the matter  resolved.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN87074632This dispute relates to a debt that NRAM says is due when Ms M and her partner sold a 
mortgaged property in 2011. I have seen  some correspondence from that time and some 
more recent.
When Ms M and the joint owner sold the property, there were outstanding balances  that 
remained unpaid. In August 2011 in advance of the sale NRAM wrote to Ms Ms then 
solicitors consenting  to a shortfall sale and agreeing a repayment schedule  with Miss N and 
her partner. In September 2011  NRAM wrote  to Ms M asking  her to sign a Shortfall 
Acknowledgement Form.  
Ms M signed the form on 5 September 2011. On 28 February 2012, Ms M wrote to NRAM 
asking that NRAM  accept a reduced figure  in settlement of the debt. According to NRAM, Ms 
M made payments until June 2012  and then in November 2012  it passed the outstanding 
balance to its Loss Recovery Team which had the effect of stopping further interest  accruing  
on the account.
The most recent correspondence  Ive seen starts with a letter  from Ms Ms new solicitor in 
April 2018 asking for some clarification  about the account. NRAM supplied a statement of 
account with a letter dated 28 April 2018  showing  two accounts, a secured and unsecured  
account and a balance of £33,807.12. The account  dealt  with the period from January to 
December 2012.  The interest rate applied to both accounts appears to be in line with the 
terms of the agreements.
On reading the solicitors  letter  she says that the NRAM  letter  didnt contain any information 
such as calculations in regards to interest,  mortgage capital and unsecured  elements of the 
balance. Mrs Ms solicitor  says that this is absolutely necessary to enable Ms M to consider 
the alleged balance demanded. But that is not my view I believe  that the accounts fairly 
show the opening balances on both accounts, the interest being added on both accounts, 
payments made by Ms M, the effect of the remediation and the final balance.
Unfortunately Ms M was unable to pay off this account when she and the joint borrower sold 
this property sometime ago. Ms M would  have dealt with this in 2011 and 2012 with her then 
solicitor. I believe that the information provided  to her by NRAM clearly  sets out what  is due 
by her and the joint borrower and is sufficient information to allow her to engage with NRAM 
in relation to her debt. 
As regards  the other points of complaint, I note that NRAM  has accepted that it didnt 
respond to a number  of contacts from Ms Ms solicitors for which it has apologised which 
seems appropriate. Ms Ms solicitor has also asked that NRAM only contact it and not Ms M. 
If Ms M appoints a solicitor to negotiate the repayment of a debt on her behalf  we would 
expect a creditor to deal with the solicitor but its not clear to me that there  are in fact such  
negotiations at this time.  
As regards  the credit  file, Ms M can check her credit file and if information has been 
recorded incorrectly she can bring  this issue to the attention of NRAM. But at this point I 
have no evidence that this is the case.  There is also the issue that NRAM appears  to have 
two text numbers and is unclear which is Ms Ms  and which  is the joint borrower. As I 
understand it if Ms M identifies her number that will mean that the texts can go to the joint 
borrower. I note that one of Ms Ms original complaints is that NRAM wasnt pursuing  the 
joint borrower but that doesnt appear to be the case.  For the above  reasons I cant  fairly 
uphold this complaint.    
Ref: DRN87074633my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8707463