K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains, in her capacity as director of business B, that Bank of Scotland  plc closed 
the business account and registered a fraud prevention marker against  B without due cause.
background
Ms A is the director of B, a small business.  In August 2018 she contacted  Bank of Scotland  
to tell them she would be receiving a large payment of around  $80,000 which  was not 
subsequently deposited. Later in the same month  she got in touch with Bank  of Scotland to 
change the name and nature of her business
In December 2018, someone tried to deposit  £50,000 into Bs account. Before the money 
reached Bs account,  it was reported  as fraudulent  funds. When  Ms A spoke to Bank of 
Scotland she told them she was not expecting this payment and would have notified them if 
she was expecting a large payment, as she had done in August. Bank of Scotland decided  
to investigate Bs account. Having done  so they took the decision to close  the account with 
60 days notice and register  a Credit Industry  Fraud Avoidance System (Cifas) marker 
against B. 
Ms A complained to Bank of Scotland on behalf of B. Ms A said that in November 2018  
whilst abroad her bag and phone were  stolen. She said that her bank account  details  were  
stored on the phone  so this could explain how an unknown third party  had her details  to 
send the money.  
Bank of Scotland defended their decision to both register the CIFAS and close the account. 
They felt the conduct in August added to the picture  of someone using the account for 
fraudulent purposes  as shed changed the business type, and hadnt  received the large  
payment she had called in about. They also felt that as the money was sent to her account in 
December they had reasonable grounds  to believe B had been involved  in, or had attempted 
to be involved in, a fraud  or financial crime. 
So Ms A brought Bs complaint to this service. Our investigator reviewed what had happened 
and recommended that Bs complaint be upheld in relation to the Cifas marker,  but that Bank 
of Scotland had closed the account  in line with the terms and conditions  so he felt they had 
done nothing wrong in relation to that. Ms A agreed with these  findings  on behalf of B. Bank 
of Scotland disagreed as they felt they had enough  evidence to demonstrate a reasonable 
belief that B was involved in the commission or attempt to commit a fraud  of financial crime 
in relation to this receipt of funds.  So, it has come to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
The marker that Bank of Scotland asked to be applied is for misuse  of facility. The misuse 
relates to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. For Bank of Scotland  to record this 
they dont need to be able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that B was guilty of fraud  or 
another financial crime. But in order to register a Cifas  marker, they are expected  to be able 
to demonstrate that there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime 
Ref: DRN84920372has been committed or attempted. They must also be able to show  that the evidence theyve 
based this on is clear, relevant and rigorous such that it could  confidently  report the conduct 
of B to the police  though this doesnt mean  that they must  make such  a report.   
The relevant  finding for me to make is not specifically  what  I conclude  was most likely to 
have been Ms As intentions and actions in relation  to the fraudulent  funds. My role is to 
assess whether I think it was fair and reasonable for Bank  of Scotland  to conclude they had 
a reasonable belief  that B was involved in fraud of financial crime based on the evidence 
they had obtained, such that it could escalate its concerns to Cifas.  
On balance I dont  agree that Bank of Scotland were entitled  to do so. Ill explain why. I am 
satisfied from Bank  of Scotlands evidence that there was an attempt to move funds into Bs 
account that werent intended for her, and that they had grounds  to be concerned  and 
investigate Bs account. But fraud and financial crime would also require knowledge of these  
funds. 
Bank of Scotland raised concerns about  the activity  on Bs account  in August. Whilst I 
understand they are arguing  that this could build  a picture of someone trying to use an 
account for fraudulent activity, I think this amounts  to mere suspicion which is not sufficient 
in and of itself to register  a Cifas marker. So Ive gone on to consider the December 
payment.  
I accept that a payment was initiated  to transfer funds to Bs account that B was not entitled  
to receive. Ms A hasnt been able to explain why the funds were  sent to Bs account, but this 
may be because she genuinely  has no knowledge of how this happened.  None of the funds 
reached the account so they were  never  spent.  And Ive not seen anything from Bank of 
Scotland that shows she was aware  of them. Whilst I accept that it is strange that these  
funds were sent to Bs account, there  are plausible  explanations as to why this money could  
have been sent to Bs account  without Ms As knowledge. For example, her bank details 
may have  been  included  or entered in error by the owner of the sending account,  or by 
someone attempting to scam the owner  of the sending account. 
Bank of Scotland havent been able to show much  evidence  from the sending  bank to assist 
in our understanding of exactly what happened to initiate the sending of funds to Bs 
account. We cannot know exactly what happened, but Ms A denied  knowledge of these 
funds at the first opportunity. Without evidence to support Ms A being aware of these funds, 
it is difficult to see how Bank of Scotland had a reasonable belief that B was party  to fraud  or 
financial crime.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Bank  of Scotland had enough evidence  to meet 
the burden of proof required by Cifas to add the marker against B. I dont think it is fair and 
reasonable for the Cifas  marker to remain, so I will be asking Bank of Scotland  to remove 
the marker.  With regards  to the account closure, Ms A has accepted that the account  was 
closed in line with the terms and conditions  and I agree with the investigators  opinion that 
nothing more needs to be done by Bank  of Scotland in relation  to this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I require Bank of Scotland to remove  the Cifas  marker that 
has been registered against  B. 
Ref: DRN84920373Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A on behalf of 
B to accept  or reject  my decision before XXX 2020.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8492037