K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Santander  UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National,  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy to protect their mortgage repayments  in January 2007 at 
a meeting with Abbey  National. The policy  covered  them both equally. It cost £32.59 per 
month for £540  per month of cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed. They said, 
in the main: 
they didnt  need PPI because of their work benefits and savings, so Santander 
shouldnt have  recommended the policy to them. 
they dont  recall being told the policy was optional. 
the policy wasnt worth it to them financially. 
part of their mortgage was taken out in 1990 and still in existence  when the PPI was 
taken out. 
our adjudicator had accepted that they were not given clear information  about  PPI, so 
their policy  must  have been mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J say it wasnt made clear that PPI was optional. I cant  know what  was 
discussed at the meeting with Abbey National.  However, from what  I have seen, I think  it 
more likely that it was made clear  to Mr and Mrs J that PPI was optional and they 
decided to take it. Ive seen  their mortgage offer, this makes  it clear that PPI isnt a 
condition of the mortgage. It said that Youre not required  to take out any insurance 
through Abbey.  Ive  also seen the needs  analysis document  recording  the conversation 
had with Mr and Mrs J about PPI. It seems from this they opted  to take out the cover. I 
can understand why Mr and Mrs J may not remember  it this way now,  after so much 
time. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs J so it had a responsibility to check  whether 
the cover  was right for them. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable  for them,  based on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs J seemed  eligible to take out the PPI.
they said they were  both eligible  to get at least 6 months worth  of sick pay through 
their employers.  However, the PPI would have paid out on top of any work benefits 
and for up to 12 months per successful accident,  sickness or unemployment claim, 
so possibly longer  than their work  benefits wouldve covered them for.
Ref: DRN85303702Mr and Mrs J said they had savings  of around 3 months worth of pay. But, I cant see 
that their other resources  made the policy unsuitable. It wouldve allowed them to use 
these savings to meet their other household  expenses, with the reassurance that 
their mortgage repayments could be met if they lost their job or werent  well enough 
to work.
the policy appeared affordable. They were  paying a monthly premium for it and it 
couldve been cancelled  at any time without  them losing out financially. 
I cant see that Mr and Mrs J were  affected  by any of the main  limitations  or 
exclusions in the policy. As they couldve benefitted from everything  the policy 
offered, I dont think having  better  information  about these things wouldve changed 
their decision  to buy the policy.
Overall, I think the PPI would have  been useful to Mr and Mrs J, in their circumstances.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs J all the information  they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear or when it pointed  out the main 
things the policy didnt cover.  So, although the information may not have been as clear  as it 
couldve been, before  I decide whether to uphold their complaint, I must consider whether Mr 
and Mrs J have lost out because of this. I cant see that they have. I think they wouldve 
understood they had to pay something  for PPI, and as Ive said above  the cost was 
affordable and the policy suitable. Having looked at what theyve said about  whether the 
policy was worth the cost to them, I think it was. They couldve made  repeated claims on the 
policy and the benefit they couldve got was considerably more than their premiums.
Ive considered carefully all of Mr and Mrs Js comments, including  what  theyve said about  
part of the mortgage starting  in 1990  and continuing after they took out the PPI. However,  I 
can see from the mortgage offer they were  sent in 2006, it was made clear to them  that 
when they took out the additional borrowing, this mortgage would be paid off, and new loans 
taken. So, this does  not affect my decision, as from that time onwards  Mr and Mrs J had a 
regulated mortgage. Our adjudicator has already  explained what  that means in terms of 
their complaint.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs J have lost out because of any problems with the sale and 
I dont think this policy was mis-sold  to them. 
Ref: DRN85303703my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8530370