K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about two whole  of life policies they took out following advice 
from Santander UK Plc. They  have said they were  misrepresented information and had they 
known the true nature of the policies at the time they took them out they would never have 
done so.
background
Mr and Mrs C are being represented throughout this complaint by their son. The entirety of 
the submissions and communication with Santander and this Service  has come  from him. 
I will refer to him throughout  the decision as the representative.
In January and February 2015  Mr and Mrs C met with an adviser from Santander. Mr C 
attended both meetings  but Mrs C only attended  the one in February. The meetings were 
also attended by their daughter who the representative has referred to as their carer.
Mr and Mrs C met with an adviser following a review  they had in a branch where they had 
mentioned they wanted to take something out to provide a lump  sum upon their deaths that 
could be used to cover funeral costs.
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs C were  both retired and in their seventies. The fact find 
completed at the sales meeting recorded they had put themselves down as each others  
dependents. They were in receipt  of pension income each totalling around £1,200 per month 
which left them with around £700  per month  of disposable income taking account of their 
outgoings. It was also recorded in the fact find that they each held savings of around  
£15,000.
They were  both sold a whole of life plan that Santander called an Over 50s life assurance 
plan. Each  plan was set up on a level basis with a sum assured of £5,000. The premium  
term was eighteen  years which meant after eighteen years whilst  the cover  was retained no 
further premiums had to be paid.
The representative has raised a vast number  of complaint points including  the following:
His parents had no need for the policies. They had savings in place which would 
have covered funeral costs. Also there  was no need to put anything place to protect 
their children  as they were all over the age of 50 and werent in a position where their 
parents would be a financial burden on them.
The paperwork completed during the sales process, provided to Mr and Mrs C and 
presented as part of this complaint  isnt accurate  and doesnt truly reflect the situation  
at the time.
Material facts of the policy were misrepresented to Mr and Mrs C purely for 
Santanders own financial gain in the form of commission.
The policy terms were not fully explained  to Mr and Mrs C.
The final illustration documents were  not shown to Mr and Mrs C.
Santander didnt  carry out enough checks about Mr and Mrs Cs ability to make 
decision nor were  proper checks made  of their daughters ability to help them  who 
also attended the meeting. The representative  has said all three  were not well 
educated and so were not financially aware of the confusing nature of financial 
products. As a result  Santander  has taken advantage of two elderly and financially 
vulnerable and uneducated pensioners for his own gain.
Ref: DRN83716292An ISA would have  been more suitable  for them rather than a whole of life plan.
A protection plan with a fixed term would  have been more suitable.
The notes on the fact find about them wanting  protection for funeral costs  is wrong.  
Mr and Mrs C had already made  their funeral arrangements  and while  the notes 
mention headstones and flowers this wouldnt have applied to Mr and Mrs C due to 
their religious  beliefs. Therefore this detail has been fabricated.
Mr and Mrs Cs savings should  have  been  used to provide their protection.  And 
although the fact find recorded  them having  a different use for their savings the 
representative has queried what this could be at their age. So because of this the 
adviser should have carried  out further due diligence  as to the nature of their savings.
The adviser buried Mr and Mrs C in technical financial jargon and didnt give full 
disclosure of relevant  documents.
Mr and Mrs C have no recollections of being  shown the relevant policy documents.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He felt that despite what the representative had said about Santander misleading 
and fabricating information  he could  find no evidence of this. He felt that from everything  
recorded at the time of the sale it looked  like Mr and Mrs C had a defined need  for funeral 
protection at each  of their deaths.  So because of this a whole of life policy was suitable  for 
them and met this need. He was aware  of their ages at the time of the sale but he was 
persuaded the need as genuine and therefore  the policies sold met this need. He also felt 
this wasnt an unreasonable situation and that there was nothing wrong with two elderly  
people wanting  to ensure  they provided a way of covering their expenses when they die so 
as to not be a financial  burden  on anyone left behind regardless of the positions  those 
people left behind  were in.
The representative didnt  agree with the assessment.  He strongly maintained  his view that 
the policy was of no use to Mr and Mrs C and that they had been misled into taking the 
policies out.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Firstly I think its important to point to out that the Financial Ombudsman Service  is an 
impartial body and in making my decision  I have a duty to be objective and fair and 
reasonable to both parties. And in reaching my decision I will take into account all the 
evidence provided  to me and base it on what I think is more  likely to have happened.
A situation like this is a difficult one to decide.  Firstly I wasnt  at the sales  meeting when the 
advice was given  and the policies were taken out, so I dont know exactly  what  was 
discussed. And in this case nor was the representative who looks  to be the driver of this 
complaint. Therefore, for me to make  my decision I need to take account  of what  has been 
relayed to me about Mr and Mrs Cs recollections  from the time of sale and any written  
evidence they can provide  to support the complaint, as well any evidence provided  to me by 
Santander from the time of the sale.
Ref: DRN83716293While I wont discount Mr and Mrs C recollections  from the time of the sale I also must  pay 
due mind to the evidence  from Santander  to see if the complaint points can be supported.
The other point  to note is that the representative  has insisted that each of the complaint 
points he has raised be answered formally by me. I appreciate how strongly the 
representative feels about this issue but I dont need  to discuss  every  point  raised in detail. 
But I can assure the representative  that I have considered  all the points raised in reaching  
my determination. 
Turning now to the specific complaint, the paperwork that was completed during the 
meetings with Mr and Mrs C contain a lot of detail about their situations  in 2015 and sets out 
their objectives. I know the representative  has said the paperwork is wrong and fabricated 
but he hasnt provided anything  to support this. So given this position  I think its more  likely 
that the paperwork completed  during  the sales meeting in conjunction  with Mr and Mrs C 
represent an accurate  situation as at that time.
In the paperwork  Mr and Mrs C signed  declaring their acceptance of the information there 
was a stated need  for protection in the high level needs analysis. In the notes section of this 
document it is recorded that Mr and Mrs C had stated in branch that they needed to set up a 
funeral plan. Its also stated that they had a need  for a lump sum to pay out in the event of 
their deaths  to cover funeral expenses.
Given this recorded  need I see nothing wrong with Mr and Mrs C, in their situation,  each 
taking the type of policy that they did. The policies  would  pay out a lump  sum in the event of 
their deaths  so any funeral costs or any other  costs  could  be covered by that payment. If one 
passed away before the other  it meant the remaining spouse wasnt  burdened with having to 
find that money to pay for costs at a time which would undoubtedly be very difficult.
I know the representative has questioned why their savings werent used for this but it was 
recorded in their paperwork from the time of the sale that they had a plan to use their 
savings for something  else. What  that could have  been isnt detailed  and is also largely 
irrelevant. The fact they had a different use for it is enough for me to not question it. Also its 
not unreasonable the savings were  not considered as meeting their need  for a lump sum 
payment upon  death. Obviously there would have been a hope that Mr and Mrs C lived for 
many years and £30,000 in savings isnt a huge  amount to last several years. This could 
also be used in other ways (as identified at the time of sale) and its also sensible for some 
of this to have been left for use in case of emergencies.
I appreciate the point  the representative  has made  about the inclusion of the funeral 
headstone and flowers. I accept this would not have applied  to Mr and Mrs C. However this 
wording alone  isnt enough  for me to conclude that the information recorded at the time of 
the sale has been fabricated. I think its more likely this was something that was standard 
wording that usually was included  in these types  of documents and unfortunately this wasnt 
taken out by the adviser. However this doesnt negate  the fact that I really  cant  argue with 
what was recorded  at the time of the sale in relation to what Mr and Mrs C wanted and why 
they met with the adviser in the first place.
The representative has questioned why a plan with a fixed  term was not recommended  and 
feels this would have  been more suitable.  However  the paperwork confirms Mr and Mrs Cs 
need was for payment upon their deaths.  Obviously they cant  predict when  this would be so 
a fixed term plan would not have met their stated  needs. If one of them passed away after 
Ref: DRN83716294the end of the term of the fixed  term plan then there  would be no payment at all thereby not 
meeting their objective in any way.
The representative has also said that they should  have  been recommended  an ISA but given 
they wanted something to pay out upon death  an ISA wouldnt have met this need easily  or 
as quickly as they would have required when  the situation arose.  And the advice was given 
before the change  in the rules where  a spouses ISA could be passed over to a surviving 
spouse upon death whilst retaining the tax-free  status.
The representative has said a plan for funeral costs would not have been needed because 
Mr and Mrs C had no need to protect their children in the event of their deaths. However 
firstly if this was what they wanted then that is the objective the adviser had to meet. Also 
while the representative says he had no need  to be protected by his parents, there  is nothing  
to say their other children may not have benefitted from this. So this alone  isnt enough for 
me to think  the plans  were unsuitable. 
Finally looking at all the paperwork  that has been provided to me that was completed 
alongside Mr and Mrs C in the meetings and the paper work provided to them  during and 
after the sale I am satisfied that it all reflected  and effectively  communicated  the true nature 
of the policy.
They signed  the documents indicating that they had checked all the details and they were  
correct. The suitability report  reiterated  all the information to them including  the type of plans 
they had taken out and when they would  pay a lump sum. The illustrations  also clearly 
stated that the plans  were over 50s plans; what the premium and sum assured was; the type 
of cover it provided and the type of protection they held under the plans.  It also included a 
warning that if the policy holder paid into the plan for a certain  amount of years they would 
have paid as much in premiums as the policy would  pay on death. It also calculated how 
much would be paid in total if the policy holder kept paying into the plan for the full premium 
term. Given all of this, I cant conclude that the true nature  of the policy was kept from 
Mr and Mrs C or that they were misled about  it. Im satisfied the documents  were given to 
them and tit was their responsibility to read them. If they chose not to do that even though  
they were entering  into a financial contract then that isnt something Santander can be held 
responsible for.
Overall, there is nothing in all I have been provided  that indicates to me the paperwork is not 
a true reflection of what  Mr and Mrs C wanted  at the time.  I appreciate  they may not 
remember the details  of the sale or the documents being provided  but I am satisfied  they 
were provided with the documentation, and that documentation communicated all the 
relevant information  to make Mr and Mrs C aware of the types of polices they had agreed to 
take out. I dont  think their recorded  need  of funeral protection  was unreasonable  in their 
given situations  and I think the policies  they took out met this need. I therefore dont think  
they were mis-sold.
Ref: DRN83716295my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8371629