K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Preferred Mortgages Limited  sent an important letter  about 
his mortgage account to an incorrect address.
background
In February 2019,  I sent both parties  my provisional  decision  in this case, an extract of which  
is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I dont repeat the background here.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Preferred  
Mortgages said it had nothing further to add. Mr M didnt respond  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr M nor Preferred Mortgages have provided any further information or 
evidence, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional  
decision. I remain of the view that Preferred  Mortgages error in sending  the letter  to the 
wrong address  didnt  cause Mr M any loss, distress  or inconvenience.  So, I dont think it has 
to do any more than its already  done. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80470742extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr M complains that Preferred Mortgages Limited  sent an important letter  about 
his mortgage account to an incorrect address.
background
In April 2013, Preferred Mortgages  wrote to Mr M and offered him a discount of £24,444.34  
and £2,000 cash back if he repaid his mortgage by mid September 2013. The letter  said 
that in order to qualify  for the discount, the full monthly mortgage payment would need to be 
maintained and the mortgage account kept up to date until redemption by mid September
2013.
Its common ground that Preferred Mortgage  sent the April 2013 letter to an incorrect 
address. Mr M told us that the address on the letter was the home of the parents of his ex 
partner, who is a joint borrower on the mortgage.  Mr M says that the letter didnt reach 
him before the expiry  date of the offer.
In January 2018, Mr M enquired about a settlement figure for the mortgage. Preferred 
Mortgages notes  of Mr Ms phone  call indicate  that he was aware that it had previously 
sent him a reduced settlement figure  and enquired  about whether it would do so again. It 
said it wasnt able to offer him the discount.  Preferred Mortgages  offered Mr M 
compensation of £150.
Mr M initially said that Preferred Mortgages should  compensate him for the full amount of 
the offer.
Our investigator didnt think that Preferred Mortgages should do any more  than it had 
already done.  She said it wasnt obliged to offer Mr M the discount again.  The investigator 
said that Preferred  Mortgages notes of its calls with Mr M in 2013 include reference to him 
struggling financially. She noted that there  were  arrears on the mortgage and that he was 
no longer with his partner,  which  may have affected the likelihood of him finding a new 
lender. So, she didnt  think that Mr M would have been in a financial position  to take up the 
offer in any event.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator. He said that he withheld mortgage payments as 
the housing association - which owned part of the property  - refused to let him sub-let. 
Mr M says that when the housing association gave its permission to allow  him to sub-let, 
he repaid the arrears  in full. He says that he had an inheritance and he was earning more 
than when he took out the mortgage. He says that he had a new partner with whom  he 
may have  decided to apply for a new mortgage. So, he doesnt  think  that affordability  is an 
issue.
The investigator said that Mr M hadnt  lost out, as he was obliged  to repay the mortgage  
in any event. She said that she couldnt say for certain whether a remortgage application 
by Mr M would have  been successful in 2013. The investigator said it was unclear why a 
dispute with the housing  association would lead to withholding mortgage payments.
Ref: DRN80470743Mr M said that he wasnt expecting Preferred Mortgages to offer him the discount again  
but he thought that compensation of £150  wasnt enough. He wants it to remove charges  
from his account.
Mr M is one of two joint borrowers. Weve explained  that we usually require both 
account holders  to make the complaint. Mr M says that he doesnt  know how to contact 
the other borrower  and that theyve had no contact for eight years.  In the particular 
circumstances here,  Ill proceed to look at the complaint  in any event.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Preferred Mortgages  made an error in sending the April 2013  letter  to Mr M at an 
incorrect address. I need to decide  whether  that caused Mr M any loss, distress or 
inconvenience. I dont  think  it did and Ill explain why.
After Preferred Mortgages sent the letter in April 2013, it tried to call him several times in 
May and June 2013 in order to discuss its offer but couldnt contact him. Preferred 
Mortgages notes  of its contact with Mr M show that on 3 July 2013, it told him about the 
contents of the letter. On 5 August 2013, Mr M asked Preferred Mortgages for an 
extension of the offer. So, it appears to me that Mr M knew about  Preferred Mortgages 
offer in 2013, well before the time limit of the offer expired, even though  it had sent the 
letter to the wrong address.
Even if I came to a different conclusion about  whether Mr M knew about the offer at the 
relevant time, its not clear  to me that Mr M would have been able to benefit from it. In order  
to take up the offer, Mr M would have had to find a mortgage with a new lender. Ive noted 
what Mr M says about his inheritance, his income  and the possibility that hed apply for a 
remortgage with his new partner. But I think hed have had great  difficulty remortgaging. 
His ex-partners consent would  be required and he had no contact  with her at the time. 
Also, there was a history  of arrears and this was a shared ownership property in which he 
wasnt living  at the time.
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont think Preferred Mortgages  error in sending  
the letter to the wrong address caused Mr M any loss, distress and inconvenience. So I 
dont intend to direct  it to do any more  than its already done.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  intend to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8047074