K822xcomplaint
Ms E complains  that The Mortgage Works  (UK) Plc unreasonably refused to grant  her a buy-
to-let mortgage. She wants TMW to compensate her for the distress and financial loss she 
has suffered as a result.
background 
Ms E made a buy to let (BTL)  mortgage  application  to TMW via a broker  on 23 July 2018. 
And a valuation was carried  out on 31 July 2018 by a valuer  who was a member  of the Royal  
Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). But Ms Es application was declined as the surveyor 
felt that the property was capable of being a house in multiple occupation (HMO).  In 
particular, his report said that there was a possible fifth bedroom that was locked on 
inspection and there were  two reception rooms, one of which  could be used as an additional 
bedroom.
Ms Es broker contacted  the bank to appeal the decision, and there was further  discussion 
with the valuer  but this still returned a decline decision. The broker was then asked to supply 
a copy of the latest tenancy agreement together with the latest bank statement to evidence 
receipt of rental income. And TMW sent another RICS valuer to inspect the property at the 
beginning of October.  But TMW ultimately decided that it wasnt  prepared to proceed  with 
the BTL application. Its final response  letter said, in summary, that while it appreciated that 
the property may not be in an area where  an HMO  licence  is required, and the property may 
currently only be let to 4 people, the property  lent itself to being used as an HMO under 
TMWs guidelines.
TMWs letter also said that, if Ms E remained unhappy with the outcome  of its investigation 
and response she could contact the Property Ombudsman. And it gave contact details  for 
the Property Ombudsman, which were incorrect.
Ms E subsequently established that the correct Ombudsman to look at her complaint was 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. So she approached this service. After  she did so, TMW 
issued another  final response letter giving the correct referral rights. 
In bringing her complaint to this service Ms E said in particular:
this was the third re-mortgage on the property  and she had had no problems in getting a 
buy-to-let mortgage in the past;
the first surveyor had had the opportunity to ask to access  any room  he wanted but had 
failed to do so;
she could provide proof that the house was not being rented as an HMO and did not 
agree that it met the definition of an HMO;
she had personally  attended the second  valuation and access  to all areas  was available 
to the valuer.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel that TMW had acted  unfairly in regards to the valuation.  He felt it 
was entitled to rely on the information  provided to it by a RICS appointed firm when deciding 
whether nor not to lend. And he was satisfied that the bank acted within reasonable 
timescales in response to the requests for an appeal.  But he felt that TMW  had made an 
error when  it issued its final response  letter,  as it said that Ms E could refer her complaint  to 
the Property Ombudsman, which wasnt correct. And the contact  details for the property 
Ref: DRN84674762ombudsman were also incorrect. He felt that this had caused Ms E inconvenience, and 
suggested a compensation offer of £100  which TMW  had agreed to.
Ms E didnt agree with our adjudicators  findings.  She said that TMW had caused a months 
delay in giving her details of the correct complaints process. And she said this caused her a 
consequential loss of approximately £1,000. 
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his decision. In particular, he didnt agree that 
TMW should pay the difference in Ms Es monthly  payment when  her existing mortgage 
moved to the standard variable rate (SVR). Her application was submitted to TMW on 
23 July 2018 and her existing  rate moved  to the SVR on 1 August 2018. Her mortgage  
application was initially declined on 7 August, and he felt that at this point she had the 
opportunity to look at another  lender. He didnt see that TMW had caused  any further delay 
within the appeal  process which would have  prevented her from looking at another lender  to 
prevent staying on the SVR for an unnecessary amount of time.
As agreement has not been reached  Ms Es complaint  has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms E has raised a number of issues. Ive considered  everything  she has to say but have 
concentrated my decision on those  issues which  I find to be central  to her complaint.
Having carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments Ive reached  the same  
decision as our adjudicator, and for much  the same reasons. I realise that this will come  as a 
disappointment to Ms E, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
TMWs policy defines an HMO as follows:
A property occupied by five or more people  or with five to seven lettable  rooms in an 
area commensurate with multi  letting;
a property with more than one tenancy agreement in place.
The information that TMW received from its two valuers was that, while there were currently 
only four tenants,  there were additional rooms in the property that could be used for letting. 
And so they considered that the property was potentially  a HMO.
I appreciate that Ms E is unhappy as she only lets to four people, and has said that she has 
no intention of letting  to more. And I note that she doesnt agree that the property  is in an 
area commensurate with multi-  letting.  But Im persuaded  that TMW is entitled to rely on the 
report of its RICS qualified valuers when reaching  its decision.
Ms E is unhappy that the first surveyor didnt ask for access  to the loft rooms. But, although I 
appreciate her frustration,  Im not persuaded that this would have changed the valuers  view 
of the property, which was confirmed by the second valuer.
Im persuaded that TMW treated Ms E fairly when it considered her appeal and the 
additional information she supplied. Ultimately, it is for TMW to decide  whether it wishes  to 
Ref: DRN84674763lend on a property  or not. And Im satisfied that the decision  it has reached is in accordance  
with its policy. Im also not persuaded that its timescales for considering  her appeal  were 
unreasonable.
Ms E has said that she had no problem getting a buy-to-let mortgage previously, and that 
she has subsequently been able to get a buy-to-let  mortgage, again without difficulty. But 
each lender has its own criteria for lending, so although I note what  she says this doesnt 
change my decision.
I agree  with our adjudicator that TMWs  failure to initially give Ms E the correct  referral 
details in its final response letter has caused  her inconvenience. And so I agree that it is 
reasonable that TMW should pay Ms E £100 compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order The Mortgage  Works  (UK) Plc to 
pay Ms E £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8467476