K821x#15complaint
Mrs J says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to her. 
 
background
This complaint is about one running  account credit  facility  Sunny provided to Mrs J between 
October 2013 and April 2014.  The facility  allowed Mrs J to borrow up to £750 with an initial  
minimum monthly repayment of £290.40 for five months should  she drawdown the maximum 
amount. Mrs J initially borrowed  £750.  She made  further drawdowns before previous 
drawdowns were repaid.  Mrs J repaid the facility in April 2014. Mrs Js facility drawdown  
history is as follows:
Drawdown 
numberDate of 
drawdownDrawdown 
amountHighest minimum 
monthly  repayment
1. 6/10/13 £750 £290.40
2. 4/11/13 £109.17 £300.01
3. 30/11/13 £750 £301.58
4. 31/12/13 £76.82 £297.76
5. 1/2/14 £80.27 £284.70
6. 28/2/14 £102.44 £291.25
7. 31/3/14 £82 £288.42
Mrs J said she had other short term loans  at the time and she settled the account by 
borrowing further.  
In its final response letter  Sunny  said that it had used information from Mrs J and the credit  
reference agency to ensure the amount  it agreed to lend could be repaid by Mrs J without 
undue difficulty over the term of the loan. The amounts advanced  were  assessed as being  
affordable over the term of each loan. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Js complaint should be upheld from her fourth  
drawdown on 31 December 2013.  He explained  that Mrs J had a £750 limit on her flex credit  
facility and she made a full drawdown  of that amount on the same date as taking out the 
facility. She then made a repayment  in line with the agreement at the end of October 2013 
and four days later on 4 November 2013  she made a drawdown and reached her credit limit 
again. She then fully repaid the credit balance on 30 November 2013. But, on the same 
date, she made a drawdown  of £750  again.  This was the third time Mrs J had drawn down 
and reached her credit limit, either  soon  after making repayment  or on the same day. This 
suggested she mayve  had money management issues.
 
Ref: DRN89851062Mrs J then made a repayment on 31 December 2013 and on that date made a drawdown 
which reached her full limit again.  The adjudicator said that over a period of three months,  
Mrs J remained  near her credit limit and on four occasions she had drawn down to reach her 
limit very soon after making repayment.  So by the drawdown on 31 December 2013, the 
adjudicator thought there was more  Sunny  shouldve been doing  to further understand
Mrs Js circumstances and determine  why her balance wasnt  decreasing. But he couldnt 
see that it did anything  to try and ascertain  whether Mrs Js circumstances had changed or if 
she was experiencing difficulties. And he thought she lost out as a result of this.
Sunny disagreed and initially responded to say that before the credit  facility was granted it 
had checked whether  the credit amount was affordable and sustainable by using information  
from Mrs Js application and credit  reference agency data to assess eligibility, affordability 
and creditworthiness.  It noted that Mrs J was able to repay  back  all her drawdown amounts  
within the contractual period.
Sunny then contacted us again as it had concluded  a further  internal review  of the complaint. 
It said that the drawdown amounts ranged  from £80.27 to £109.17 and Mrs J didnt have to 
use more than 14.36% of her income  to make the repayments. It was unaware of any 
financial detriment as the facility was paid in full. Based on a review  of the lending patterns it 
considered it may have  been prudent to have contacted Mrs J after it made her sixth 
drawdown when  she borrowed  for the second time in a month.  So it upheld the complaint 
from Loan 6 (taken on 28 February 2014) and offered to refund  the interest paid by Mrs J, 
pay 8% on the refunded  amounts from payment  to settlement and to update Mrs Js credit 
file about those loans.
Mrs J didnt respond to Sunnys offer so the complaint has been  passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that Sunny has offered  to settle  the sixth and seventh drawdown amounts. So I dont 
propose to investigate these drawdowns below. But I shall refer to the offered redress  in my 
award below.
When Sunny  lent to Mrs J the regulator was the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT) and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). The ILG 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs J could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN89851063But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the ILG defines  sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Js complaint.
I would have expected Sunny to make  proportionate  checks  when assessing the maximum 
credit limit on the facility.  Id also have expected Sunny to have monitored  Mrs Js repayment  
record and taken appropriate action where  there  were signs of possible difficulties in line 
with the ILG.
Sunny said that it checked whether the amount of credit applied  for was affordable assuming 
Mrs J had made a drawdown of the full amount of credit at one time. It assessed  the requested 
amount as a proportion  of Mrs Js declared  income and applied this along with other business 
rules to determine whether the amount of credit she had applied for was affordable. It also 
checked that there were no detrimental factors evident on Mrs Js credit file. 
Sunny said that it asked  Mrs J for information  about  her income when  she applied for her 
running credit facility. Sunny recorded  a figure  of £2,100 for Mrs Js monthly income. Ive 
looked at Sunnys Loan Datasheet and there appears to be no information about Mrs Js 
expenditure. 
Sunny has provided  us with very little information  about its credit checks. It said there was 
no evidence of bankruptcy,  individual voluntary  arrangements or debt management plans. 
Weve received several credit reports from different credit reference  agencies from Mrs J. I 
can see that she had numerous short term loans as well as a mortgage, several longer term 
loans and credit cards.  
Ref: DRN89851064But Im aware that when  a lender carries  out a credit  search,  the information it sees  doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday and short term 
lenders report to the same credit reference  agencies. So this may explain any differences 
between the information provided  by Sunnys credit checks and Mrs Js actual situation.
I note that Mrs Js running account  credit facility had a maximum credit limit of £750. If this 
amount was withdrawn, the credit  agreement said it was to be repaid by five monthly  
payments of around  £290. Mrs J asked for £750 as her first drawdown.  I appreciate  that 
Sunny had asked  Mrs J for her monthly  income.  But as Mrs J was committed  to repaying the 
loan over five months, I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to rely on Mrs Js income 
information. I think it would have been proportionate for it to have gathered information about  
Mrs Js expenses when she first applied to it for credit. I dont know what  she might have told 
it at that point. But I dont think a monthly repayment amount on her credit facility  of around 
£290 was so large in relation to her income  that its obvious it wouldve caused Mrs J 
financial difficulty. Given this was her first loan with the lender, in this case I dont find Sunny 
irresponsible to have  agreed to this facility in the first instance. 
Sunny needed  to monitor how Mrs J was using this facility. Mrs J made her first repayment  
on the due date but then borrowed  up to her limit again four days later. Mrs J then repaid the 
balance due but on the same day just three hours  later she made  a drawdown of her full 
credit limit of £750. She then made her third repayment on the due date and on the same 
day she made her fourth drawdown of £76.82 which again took her up to her limit. 
By this time I think Sunny should have been  concerned that Mrs J had made  three 
repayments and was borrowing up to her limit again. In respect of her previous two 
repayments, she was borrowing  up to her limit immediately afterwards. 
The drawdown on 31 December 2013 was the third time Mrs J had taken out an exact 
amount to bring  her account  back up to its limit having made a repayment.  And for the 
second time running shed done this on the same day as her repayment. At this point I think 
Sunny ought to have realised from the way Mrs J used her account  that she was likely facing 
problems managing her money and she wasnt likely to be able to meet  her repayments for 
this facility in a sustainable  manner.  So I think Sunny was irresponsible to have agreed  
further credit  for Mrs J from and including the fourth drawdown on her credit facility on 
31 December 2013. And I think it should take the steps set out below which include the offer 
made by Sunny in respect of the sixth and seventh drawdown amounts. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this decision 
I order Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, to:-
1.Refund all interest and charges Mrs J paid on capital drawn down through her credit 
facility from and including 31 December 2013; and
2.Pay interest on all these refunds  at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment to    
the date of settlement; and
Ref: DRN898510653.Remove any adverse  information about the credit facility  from Mrs Js credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs J a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8985106