K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and Mrs P, as executors of the estate of Mr W, complain that Santander  UK plc didnt 
process a payment for inheritance tax which has resulted  in the estate  being  charged nearly 
£3,000 interest.  
background
Mrs M attended  a Santander  branch in January 2018 in order to pay the inheritance  tax for 
the estate of Mr W for just under £60,000.  She says the Santander account had been  
opened as an executors  account. Mrs M says when  she attended the branch she waited for 
some time as staff didnt  know how to process this type of payment form this type of 
account. But she was then told the transaction had been completed  successfully and she 
was given a receipt.
Mrs M says about 14 months  later she received a letter telling her that the tax hadnt been  
paid and that interest had been  added to the debt of just under  £3,000.  She says she 
checked the receipt and discovered it said the transaction  had been  declined. Mrs M says 
this has caused  her and the other  executor stress and inconvenience and would like 
Santander to pay the interest and their extra costs.
Santander accepts  making a mistake by using the wrong customer  profile when the 
transaction was attempted.  But it says the receipt  Mrs M was given confirms  the transaction  
was declined and that it sent the executors account statements which would have showed 
this.
Mrs M and Mrs P brought their complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator accepted  Santanders cashier  should  have  made  clear  that the transaction  had 
failed but also thought  Mrs M had been  given a receipt telling her that. The investigator didnt 
think it reasonable to ask Santander to pay the interest as that was the executors 
responsibility and they had been sent account statements which showed the payment hadnt 
gone through.
Mrs M and Mrs P dont accept that view and say it was reasonable to have assumed the 
transaction was successful. Mrs M says Santander  didnt operate this type of account 
appropriately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mrs M and Mrs P will be 
disappointed by my decision. And I appreciate their frustration here and concern about how 
Santander operated this type of account.
I accept that Mrs M reasonably assumed the payment for the inheritance tax had been  
processed correctly when she left Santander. And so I appreciate her and Mrs Ps concern 
to discover that wasnt the case. But Ive come to the overall view that whilst Santander 
could have done more to tell Mrs M what had happened at the time I dont  think it fair and 
reasonable to order Santander to pay the interest.
Ive come to that view as I think it was still the responsibility of the executors to make sure 
the correct amount of tax had been paid and to check the position.  I also think that Mrs M 
Ref: DRN87178202could have checked the receipt she was given, as it was for a payment of just under £60,000 
and that she was aware that Santander  seemed  to have difficulties in operating this type of 
account. And Im satisfied  that Santander sent the executors an account statement  in March 
2018 which would have shown that the payment for tax hadnt been made. And I can see 
that there  were other transactions after January 2018 and so I would have expected  the 
executors to have continued to have checked  and monitored the account.
I appreciate that Mrs M says she has been  caused  distress by what  took place but thats not 
something I can consider  here as I can only consider the impact on the estate and not the 
executors. For the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly order Santander pay the interest as 
Mrs M and Mrs P would like. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mrs P 
on behalf of the estate  of Mr W to accept or reject  my decision before 3 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8717820