K821x#15complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that an adviser acting  for Positive Solutions,  now Quilter Financial 
Planning Solutions  Limited, gave him unsuitable  advice to switch an existing  pension  to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in two Harlequin property-based 
investments  one in the pension and one outside the pension.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint in October  2020.   I set out in that provisional 
decision why I thought we could consider this complaint, why I thought the complaint should 
be upheld, and what Quilter should do to put things right.  A copy  of my provisional decision 
(with a few minor corrections and amendments to preserve  anonymity)  is annexed to this 
decision and incorporated into it.
As in my provisional decision I will refer to the firm as Positive Solutions when talking about 
the time of the events in the complaint and the early part of the complaint, and Quilter when 
referring to the more  recent past and the present.
Mr S agrees  with my provisional  decision.   Quilter does not.  It  has made several  points 
including the following:
The property was not completed in 2011  as it should have been, or even by 2013.  
This, taken with the UK sales  arm of Harlequin  being investigated for fraud  should  
reasonably have made Mr S aware  he had cause to complain  before October 2013.
In a similar complaint with similar facts  it was decided that the complaint was time 
barred.
Copies of all correspondence  should be obtained from Mr S to see what he did know.
There is a reference to a law firm in one of the letters that has been provided from 
2015.  So it seems  Mr S was in touch with that firm and that should be investigated  
further as it is a well-known complaint specialist firm.
If it is not decided  the complaint is time barred there should be a hearing.
The fact the adviser  had Positive Solutions stationery for the business he was 
authorised to do does  not mean  he gave  any of it to Mr S or in any way represented  
himself as acting on behalf  of Positive  Solutions  when  providing any advice or 
services in connection with this matter.
The adviser has stated he was very clear, and Mr S fully understood, that he was not 
giving any regulated advice or acting on behalf of Positive Solutions.   
Quilter does not see how it can be concluded that Mr Ss version of events is correct,  
and an oral hearing would provide an opportunity to fully consider these matters and 
cross examine  the parties involved.
I wrote  to Quilter on 15 December 2020 to explain that it is my view that an oral hearing is 
not necessary  in this case in order to fairly determine it.  I said the existence of a dispute of 
facts does not by itself mean that an oral hearing must as a matter  of fairness be held.  An 
oral hearing  need  only be held where  the dispute  cannot fairly be resolved  without  hearing  
oral evidence.  I said the main theme of Quilters  request is the desire  to cross examine 
witnesses.  I considered that the points in issue can fairly be determined on the basis of the 
evidence in the case and the submissions that have  been made.
Ref: DRN89515812In that letter  I pointed out that I had issued my provisional decision and that both parties had 
been given the opportunity to respond and so I would proceed with my consideration of the 
complaint. 
At my request the investigator did ask Mr S about his dealings  with the law firm and for 
copies of any documents.  Mr  S said (through his representative)  he had no dealings with 
that firm and that all his dealings have been with Mr M.  And he cannot find any paperwork 
from that firm. This information was passed  on to Quilter with the explanation that as nothing 
new had come to light I would proceed  with my reconsideration of the case  and then decide  
how to proceed and that might mean  issuing  a final decision without  corresponding further 
on the issue of a hearing.
Quilter remains  of the view that a hearing  should  be held.  It says the purpose of a hearing is 
not to allow  the arguments to be presented, but to allow the ombudsman  and the parties to 
test the evidence.  And without doing  so it is impossible  for the ombudsman  service to take 
any reasonable view on how credible such evidence is.
Quilter says there is no evidence Mr S was provided  with advice.  It says the letters I referred  
to in my provisional decision do not contain  any advice.  And  none  of the usual 
documentation that would be present with advice is present in this case.
Quilter says in another case involving this same adviser the consumer was not entirely 
truthful from the outset  about how that investment came about.  On  further investigation  it 
became apparent that regardless of the advisers  involvement the consumer would have 
invested and so Quilter  could  not be held responsible.  This shows  why it is important  to not 
only fully establish  but also test both parties  versions of events.
Quilter considers that its explanation of events is clearer than Mr Ss version  and does not 
contradict the facts  or the contemporaneous documentation that has been  provided and 
likewise the lack of contemporaneous  documents that would otherwise be expected.  It says 
if I am unable to agree with Quilter, in the interests of fairness, I must convene an oral 
hearing to attempt to establish:
a)What advice, if any was provided  by Mr M to Mr S.
b)Whether any genuine representations, if any, were made by Mr M to Mr S to show  
that he was acting on Positive  Solutions behalf in respect of any such advice.
c)To what  extent Mr S was able to reasonably rely on those representations.
d)Whether Mr S would always have proceeded with the investment regardless of 
Mr Ms involvement.
Positive Solutions says if the ombudsman service is unwilling or unable to hold a hearing it 
should find that this case would be more  suitable  to be dealt with by a court where the 
speculative submissions made by Mr S can be properly tested in cross-examination.
Quilter notes that all evidence provided  by Mr S has been through  his CMC  and that he has 
not been approached  to give direct evidence.   This  reinforces its view that in refusing to hold 
a hearing I am failing adequately to test the unsubstantiated evidence put before me.
Quilter thinks  its points  on time bar and on a hearing should be responded to before a final 
decision is issued.
Ref: DRN89515813findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in order  to decide whether we can 
consider Mr Ss complaint.
should there be a hearing?
As I have already  explained, an oral hearing need  only be held where the dispute cannot 
fairly be resolved  without  hearing oral evidence.  Quilter says that is the position here.  I do 
not agree.   
In 2019/20 I considered two similar complaints against Positive Solutions.  The complaints 
involved a different adviser (a Mr H).  The complaints  were  that the adviser had advised the 
consumers to open SIPPs, transfer existing  pensions to them, and invest  in Harlequin 
Property investments  within the SIPP.  In both cases Positive Solutions said the adviser was 
not authorised  to advise on the SIPPs or Harlequin Property investments.  In both of those 
cases Positive Solutions said the following  about Mr H:
The adviser has informed us that he made  it very clear to the client,  that he was 
personally unable  to provide any advice on this type of investment  and that there was 
no regulated sales  process at Positive  Solutions  (Financial  Services) Ltd which  would 
accommodate this type of business.  He furthermore informed the client,  that it was 
unlikely that an investment  within  this environment would covered  [sic] by the FSCS 
and highlighted  that he was only able to act as an Introducer via a company  entitled 
[name given] who in turn acted as a conduit to Tailormade-Made Alternative 
Investments who arranged the proposed  property  purchase.
In this case Positive Solutions said the following about Mr M:
The adviser has informed us that he made  it very clear to this client,  that he was 
personally unable  to provide any advice on this type of investment  and that there was 
no regulated sales  process at Positive  Solutions  (Financial  Services) Ltd which  would 
accommodate this type of business.  He furthermore informed the clients,  that it was 
unlikely that an investment  within  this environment would covered  [sic] by the FSCS 
and highlighted  that he was only able to act as an Introducer via a company  entitled 
[name given] who in turn acted as a conduit to Harlequin who arranged the 
proposed property purchase.
So it can be seen that the two earlier cases,  and this one, are very similar - seemingly 
identical in some respects.
In both of the earlier  cases  I issued a provisional decision in which I analysed the evidence 
and concluded  that the adviser had given the disputed advice to the consumers, and that 
Positive Solutions was responsible for that advice  on the basis of apparent  authority  as I 
have done in this complaint.  I also considered that the advice  was unsuitable, and that 
Quilter should compensate the consumers.  
In those earlier cases Quilter did not agree with my provisional decisions.   It made  several 
points in response.  It thought I had misunderstood the law relating to agency,  that there was 
no rational basis  for deciding that any relevant representations had been made by Positive 
Solutions and that my analysis of the issue of reliance was flawed.  Quilter said the matter  
Ref: DRN89515814should be referred to a court or the ombudsman service should  hold an oral hearing  to fully 
assess the question  of reliance.
Positive Solutions said if I made a final decision in line with my provisional decision such a 
decision would be susceptible to challenge by way of judicial review.
Judicial review is the procedure by which the courts consider the decision of public bodies, 
and other  bodies  exercising public functions, to ensure they act lawfully and fairly.  Such a 
claim may only be brought  with the permission of the court.   If the court is satisfied  that there 
are arguable grounds for a judicial  review  it will grant permission.  If not, the court  will not 
give permission.  
I issued final decisions in those earlier cases  in accordance with my provisional decisions.  
Quilter disagreed with them and made an application for judicial review.  The court  refused 
permission in both cases.  Mr Justice Murray issued effectively the same decision in each 
case.  He said:
A fair reading of the final decision dated  25/02/2020, which  incorporates  the 
provisional decision, of the Ombudsman shows that he directed himself correctly as 
to the law that applies in relation to apparent or ostensible authority and the other  
relevant matters of law about which the Claimant complains.  The Ombudsman made 
various findings of fact that were open to him on the evidence.  It cannot be said that 
any of the material  findings of fact were plainly wrong.  Given those  findings  of fact, it 
is not arguable  that there was error  of law in the Ombudsmans conclusion  that the 
Claimant was liable for the advice that was given to the interested party in this case 
as being within the scope  of Mr Hs ostensible  authority.  
Contrary to the Claimants grounds, the Ombudsman addressed  the question  of 
reliance by the Interested Party on what the Ombudsman found to be the Claimants  
general representation that Mr H had authority to act for it as a financial adviser to its 
customers, and it is clear that the Ombudsman  found that the reliance was 
reasonable.  His findings to that effect is not unlawful on any public law grounds.
There is no arguable  basis for the assertion that the Ombudsman did not have 
jurisdiction.  The relevant legal principles relating to apparent or ostensible  authority 
were not materially in dispute.  This  was primarily a fact-finding exercise  of a type 
that the Ombudsman was well-placed  to carry out, which is one of the ordinary 
functions of the Ombudsman.  It is, indeed, one of the principal purposes for which 
the Financial Ombudsman Service exists that an Ombudsman should  carry out such  
exercises, rather than court resources be used for this purpose  in cases  of this type.
Finally, there is no public law ground on which the Ombudsman decision that he did 
not need to hold an oral hearing  can arguably be impugned.  It is a matter for his 
judgment as to whether he would be assisted in this exercise by an oral hearing. 
I do not accept that the credibility  of evidence can only fairly be assessed at an oral hearing.   
Or that evidence may only be fairly  assessed  at an oral hearing.  Nor do I accept the 
argument that the issues in dispute in this case  as with the issues in the earlier  cases I 
have mentioned - may only be fairly determined by hearing oral evidence and allowing cross  
examination.  As Mr Justice Murray said, such fact-finding  is an ordinary function of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  which exists to carry out such exercises as an alternative to 
the courts.    
Ref: DRN89515815Quilter has referred to another case that I have dealt with involving the same adviser as in 
this case and an investment in a SIPP into a Harlequin Property  investment.   It points out 
that I came to the view that the consumer  would have invested  in the Harlequin investment 
even if the adviser  had advised him not to invest.   That is correct but it should be noted that I 
came to that view without holding a hearing  in that case either.  The  point is that the 
evidence in each  case is analysed fairly  in each case, in the way that is fair in each  case. 
It remains my view that the issues in dispute in this case can be fairly  determined without a 
hearing.
time bar
Quilter says there is evidence Mr S was aware  of a well-known law firm specialising  in 
financial services complaints and that he should provide details of his dealings with it.  Mr S 
has said, through his CMC, that he had no dealings  with that firm.
There is no issue with Mr S being represented by his CMC  and making his points through it.  
It does not in itself mean Mr Ss points are any less credible given that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution process that does not have rules  
requiring or otherwise  insist on the giving of direct evidence.  
Mr S has said he had no dealing with the law firm and that he has no documents from it. 
The only reference  to that firm in the documents I have seen in this case is a letter dated 20 
January 2015  from Mr M at a new firm in which he gave an update on Harlequin that 
included:
They [ie Harlequin] are keen that we all join their own trust and have set a deadline 
of 31st March.  I do understand that in order to secure finance the lenders waiting in 
the wings want to see that there is harmony amongst the investors.   The likes of 
[name of law firm] do not help with their aggressive approach to us investors.  It is 
clear that communication between the two companies has been cut off and Harlequin 
is adamant that the assets  will only be placed in one trust, their own!
As I understand it, the law firm was working  with Harlequin from an early stage trying to bring  
about a solution to the problems Harlequin was facing.  The law firm was, it said, trying to 
help Harlequin  in its efforts to re-finance.  The law firm to investors on 28 October 2013 about 
the possibility  of an investor trust.   This would seem to be the same  matter as referred to in 
the above passage from Mr Ms letter in January 2015.  It is not clear whether Mr S received 
that letter but he has said he had no dealings with the law firm so I take from that that he did 
not join in with the law firms proposals for an investor trust or otherwise have  dealings  with 
them.
Mr S having  no dealings with the law firm is consistent with the comments  in Mr Ms letter  of 
January 2015.   I have  seen no evidence to contradict  what Mr S says about the law firm.  
I have seen no evidence  that the law firm, or anyone else, advised Mr S that he might  have 
cause for complaint about anyone who recommended that he invest  in Harlequin before 13 
October 2013.  Or that the law firms involvement with Harlequin ought reasonably to have 
caused Mr S, in his circumstances,  to come to that view.   
Ref: DRN89515816Positive Solutions has said that in a similar  case it was decided  that the complaint was time 
barred.  Each case must be decided  on its own facts.   In both cases  the investors property 
had not been built by the time of Harlequins  administration and the SFO announcement  in 
2013, and both investors were relatively cautious.  But in that other  case  the consumer was 
sufficiently concerned about his investment to attend an open  meeting held by the CEO of 
Harlequin in 2013.  In this case Mr S thought the Harlequin investment scheme  was still 
viable and his adviser continued  to reassure him that was the case.
I cannot see the reference to the law firm makes any difference to the view I reached in my 
provisional decision.  There is no evidence that Mr S acquired  knowledge, or should 
reasonably have acquired knowledge,  that he had cause  for complaint from the law firm or 
from any other source before 13 October 2013.
My view remains as set out in my provisional  decision.  It is therefore my view that the 
complaint was not made late and can be considered.
was there  advice?
Quilters position is that Mr M was not authorised to advise on either the Rowanmoor SIPP  
or the Harlequin investment  as neither were approved by it.
It is also Quilters  position that the adviser  made it clear that he could  not personally give 
advice or do this type of business on behalf  of Positive Solutions. 
In my provisional decision I pointed out the essentially identical explanation  given  by two 
different advisers.   I also said that I made the finding that there had been advice contrary  to 
the assertion made by the different adviser  in two earlier cases.
Quilter says the letters I referred  to in my provisional  decision  are not advice.  And that the 
usual documentation  relating to advice is not present.
In my view the letters, written on Positive Solutions  headed notepaper to Mr S, do indicate 
that Mr M recommended  both the Rowanmoor SIPP and the Harlequin investment to Mr S 
just as Mr S says.  They give no indication that recommendation had been  made  in any 
capacity other than as Positive Solutions financial adviser.
Mr M says he made it clear he was not giving advice on behalf  of Positive Solutions but in 
this case he has also said:
As I recall I became a sub agent with [name given] group near the end of 2009 and as such it 
is unlikely that I would have  received any commission.
I can therefore confirm  there was no conflict of interest and I acted  for [Mr S] as his IFA, which 
at that point I had been doing so for over 12 years
So Mr M has said himself  in this case that he was acting as Mr Ms IFA  in other  words  as a 
Positive Solutions adviser,  the only capacity in which he could act as Mr Ms IFA at that time.
As I said in my provisional decision,  none  of the letters I have seen refer to the Harlequin 
agent.  None say or give the impression that Mr M is only making  an introduction  to any third 
party rather  than himself  recommending the investments and SIPP  and pension switch  being 
discussed. Rather they just indicate  that Mr M was  as he says  acting as Mr Ss financial 
adviser, and that he was giving investment advice as such. 
Ref: DRN89515817Mr Ss version of events  is consistent with the documents that are available.  It is also 
consistent with the comment made by Mr M on this specific case.  The  fact that more  formal 
recommendation letters were not issued does not mean that advice  was not given,  only that 
the usual process  was not followed.   My view remains, as set out in my provisional decision, 
that Mr M advised Mr S to apply for a new SIPP, transfer an existing pension  to it and to 
invest in one Harlequin Property  investment  in his SIPP and in another  outside his pension.   
was Positive  Solutions responsible for that advice?
In my provisional decision I said that Positive  Solutions did represent to Mr S that Mr M was 
authorised to give the investment advice  he gave to Mr S.  And  that Mr S reasonably relied  
on Positive Solutions representation  that Mr M was authorised to give the investment advice 
he gave to Mr S as his IFA. 
My view remains that Positive Solutions was responsible for Mr Ms advice to Mr S for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision.
findings - merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My view on the merits of Mr Ss complaint remains as set out in my provisional decision.  
Mr S says he would  not have invested  in Harlequin if Mr M had not advised him to do so.  
That would be the normal situation.  Mr M was Mr Ss financial adviser and most clients in 
his position would normally follow his advisers  advice  unless he had good reason not to.  
Quilter has referred to a different case I have  considered involving the same adviser.  But as 
Quilter knows  that case was unusual in that the complainant had a relationship  with the 
relevant Harlequin  agent and he was not an existing client of Mr M, unlike Mr S.
My view remains, as set out in my provisional  decision, that the advice was unsuitable for 
Mr S and that he would  not have invested  in Harlequin if he had been given suitable advice 
by Mr M.
how to put things right
Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions Limited  should, as far as possible, put Mr S into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable  advice to make two investments  in 
Harlequin.
Quilter is to pay the difference between the current value of Mr Ss Harlequin investments 
and what the investments  would be worth if they had performed in line with the benchmark.  
In principle, Quilter should take ownership of Harlequin investments in return  for a payment 
of a sum equal  to the present values and pay the difference between that sum and the 
amount the investment would now be worth  if the sum invested in Harlequin had grown in a 
way equal to a relevant bench  mark index.  
Ideally, Quilter should take full ownership of the Harlequin contracts from Mr S so that it 
could secure any future benefit that arises  from the investment. But my understanding  is that 
Ref: DRN89515818the ownership of the Harlequin  investment cant currently be transferred.  In that case the 
value of the Harlequin investment should  be assumed to be zero.
In return for the compensation to be paid, Quilter can ask that Mr S provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the Harlequin investment in the future, as well as 
any other payment  he may receive  from any party  as a result  of this investment.  Quilter will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Mr S to provide an 
undertaking, payment of the compensation Ive recommended above may be dependent 
upon provision  of that undertaking. 
In addition, Quilter is entitled  to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr S of any claim he 
may have  against  third parties in relation  to the Harlequin investment. If Quilter  chooses to 
take an assignment of rights, it must be affected  before  payment of compensation is made.  
Quilter must first provide a draft of the assignment/s to Mr S for his consideration and 
agreement.
Mr S has only paid a deposit  to Harlequin, but the contract he made  was to pay the balance  
if the property development reached the appropriate  stage. So in theory Harlequin could call 
upon Mr S to pay that balance later if everything  isnt assigned. I consider it unlikely to be the 
case  but its important to highlight as if that were  to happen, Mr S would not be able to 
refer the matter back to this Service again.
The compensation figure should be paid as a cash sum in the case  of the non-pension 
investment and paid into the pension in relation to the pension  investment.   In the case  of 
the pension compensation the figure paid should  be the sum required to increase the 
transfer value  to the level it would have been  if the Harlequin part of the SIPP  portfolio  had 
performed in line with the benchmark  index.
The relevant  benchmark should be the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return 
Index.  The  FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  with 
different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
If it is unable  to pay the pension part of the compensation into Mr Ss SIPP, Quilter should 
pay the compensation as a cash sum to Mr S. But had it been  possible  to pay into the SIPP,  
it would  have provided a taxable  income.  So the total amount should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax at retirement. 
For example, if Mr S is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement,  the notional  allowance  would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
if Mr S had been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional  allowance should be applied 
to 75% of the total amount.
Quilter should also pay Mr S £500  for the trouble and upset  he has been  caused in seeing  a 
proportion of his pension and non-pension investment money  lost.
Quilter should provide  Mr S with a calculation in a simple and easy  to follow  format showing 
how it calculated the compensation  payable. 
Ref: DRN89515819my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above  it is my decision that I can 
consider Mr Ss complaint against  Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited.  
It is also my decision that the complaint is upheld and that Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited must  pay fair compensation to Mr S as set out above.
That fair compensation must be paid to Mr S within 28 days  of Quilter  Financial Planning  
Solutions Limited being notified of Mr Ss acceptance of this decision.  If not, Quilter 
Financial Planning Solutions  Limited  must also pay interest on the fair compensation at the 
rate of 8 % simple  interest per year from the date of this decision  to the date of payment.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest  I think is appropriate. If I think  that fair 
compensation is more  than £150,000,  I may recommend that the business pays the balance.  
I do not know how much the total amount of compensation  will be in this case,  so I make the 
following points in case the compensation exceeds £150,000.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited  
should pay Mr S the amount produced by that calculation   up to a maximum of £150,000.   
Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions Limited  is also to pay interest on compensation of up to 
£150,000 as set out above.  
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation is more  
than £150,000, I recommend that Quilter  Financial Planning Solutions Limited pays Mr S the 
balance. 
I also recommend that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited pays  interest,  as set out 
above, on the balance of fair compensation above  £150,000. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Quilter  Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely  that Mr S can accept 
my decision  and go to court to ask for the balance.  Mr S may want  to get independent  legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept  this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN895158110Annex  Provisional  decision dated  9 October 2020.
complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that an adviser  acting for Positive Solutions, now Quilter Financial  Planning  
Solutions Limited, gave him unsuitable advice  to switch an existing  pension to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) and invest in two Harlequin property-based investments  one in the pension 
and one outside the pension.
background
Mr S says he first consulted the adviser I will call Mr M, in around 2001.   At that time he was with a 
different regulated firm.  As I understand it, Mr M advised Mr S to open a SIPP.  I also understand that 
Mr M also recommended some split capital  investment trusts on which Mr S later lost all or most of 
the money invested.
In 2004 Mr M became an adviser with Positive Solutions.  He remained with Positive Solutions until 
the end of 2011.  From  2011 Mr M became an adviser  with a different firm and Mr S became  his client 
at that firm.
This complaint concerns  events in 2009 and 2010.   Mr S says he saw Mr M regularly  to review 
matters.  He says because  of his experience  with the investment trusts he did not want risky 
investments. Mr S says in 2009 Mr M recommended  he invest in a Harlequin  Property investment in 
his pension and invest in a second Harlequin  investment  outside his pension. And that Mr M advised  
him to transfer  an existing  (non-SIPP)  personal  pension to a new SIPP with Rowenmoor (which was 
not Mr Ss existing  SIPP provider) to make  that pension  investment.
Mr S also says Mr M left the balance, after the investment in Harlequin,  uninvested in his Rowenmoor  
SIPP for nearly seven months.
Later the Harlequin investment failed, and Mr S complained to Positive  Solutions with the help of a 
claims management company (CMC).  This was in October 2016.
Positive Solutions did not uphold  the complaint.  It  said the complaint had been made  too late to be 
considered because Mr S should  have known  about problems with the Harlequin investment for more 
than three  years before he complained.
Mr S referred his complaint  to the Financial  Ombudsman Service.   One of our adjudicators considered 
the time bar arguments.   She thought the complaint had not been late and could be considered.  
Positive Solutions did not agree.  It said the complaint  was time barred.  It also said the adviser was 
not authorised  to give the advice complained about because:
Positive Solutions had not authorised the adviser  to recommend either  the Rowanmoor  SIPP 
or the Harlequin investments.
The adviser  should  have  obtained prior approval before  recommending unregulated  
investments such  as the Harlequin  investment.
The adviser  was not acting for Positive Solutions  he was acting as an introducer for an 
agent of Harlequin.
Positive Solutions says it has no records of the disputed advice or transaction, and it received no 
commission or other payments in relation to it.  It says Mr S was not its client in relation to that matter.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who did not agree with Positive Solutions.   
She thought:
the complaint  was not time barred,  
Positive Solutions was responsible for the advice,  
Ref: DRN895158111the advice was unsuitable,
and Positive Solutions should compensate Mr S for the losses he has suffered.
Quilter disagrees with the investigator on all points  and has asked for things to be referred to an 
ombudsman to decide.
my provisional  findings  - jurisdiction
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we can consider this 
complaint.
time bar  the rules
Put briefly,  where  are firm does  not consent, we can only consider  a complaint if it was made:
within six years of the event complained  about
or, if later, within three years of when the complainant knew, or should  reasonably  have 
known they had cause  for complaint.
These normal time bar rules can be waived if the delay  in making the complaint was the result of 
exceptional circumstances.
This complaint relates to events in 2009 and early 2010.  Mr S complained to Positive  Solutions in 
October 2016, so the complaint was made more  than six years  after the events  the complaint is 
about.  The  issue is, therefore, whether Mr S complained  within three years of when he knew or 
should reasonably have known he had cause  for complaint.  I will refer to this as relevant knowledge  
for short.  So the issue  is whether Mr S had relevant  knowledge before 13 October  2013.
time bar - what  Positive Solutions/Quilter  says
Positive Solutions says the Essex Police  and the Serious  Fraud  Office announced in March  2013 that 
it was investigating Harlequin Group.  It  says the SFO issued questionnaires to all investors.  It says 
claims chasers were contacting investors at that time also.
Positive Solutions says these  points  should  have  made Mr S realise the investment was unsuitable 
since he says he did not want high risk investments.
Positive Solutions has also, in effect,  argued Mr S should have noticed,  from things like his pension 
statements, that the investments were worthless  from around  this time. And it does not see what  more 
relevant information he needed to learn  or did discover  before making his complaint in 2016.
time bar - what  Mr S says
Mr Ss position is that he did not hear from the SFO or the police, and that while  the properties he had 
invested in had not been built he understood that the investment schemes  were  still viable.  He says 
Mr M continued to reassure  him that was the case.
Mr S did get a letter from Rowanmoor in October 2014 (which enclosed his annual statement as at 30 
July 2014) in which it said it would show the book cost as the value of the Harlequin investment in its 
statutory money purchase illustrations unless it received an acceptable valuation demonstrating a 
different value.  But it went on to say:
If you wish to actually crystallise benefits please be aware that the value of your Harlequin  
(Buccament Bay) asset(s) will have to be excluded from the fund value available because  we 
know there is a question  over actual value at which  the investment could be realised  today.  If 
it can be shown to have a value at a future date,  the Harlequin (Buccament Bay) asset(s) 
would then be added  to the funds available  for drawdown. 
Ref: DRN895158112In January 2015 the adviser (by this time with another firm) wrote to Mr S and included the following:
Harlequin Update
Not a great deal to report at the moment.   The chairman  gave an end of year update and he 
said despite  everything 2014  was quite a successful year.  They  have 120 properties  at 
Buccament Bay due to complete with investors soon with 23 Villas having been built in the 
last 4 months.  The money received will be used to continue to develop  and expand the 
resort.  Hopefully they will start on our properties soon!
The update continued  and concluded:
I will keep you informed as to progress  and if anything positive is announced  I will be in touch 
straight away. Fingers crossed this will be a positive  year for us all.
Mr S says he was contacted by Harlequin  in 2016 and it asked if he was willing to move  his deposit to 
a completed property and make an additional  cash  payment to it.  He said he could not do so and the 
person from Harlequin then told him that if he had invested  via his pension his adviser  may have 
given him wrong  advice  and that he might have grounds to make a complaint.  He then consulted  a 
CMC and his complaint was made  soon afterwards when he was told Harlequin SVG was going  into 
liquidation.  Mr S says that before that happened  he thought  Buccament  Bay was an up and running 
resort with no problems.
time bar  my view
It is the case that Mr S says after experiencing  losses on an earlier investment he did not want to 
make further risky investments.  And that he thought he was investing  in property which  would be a 
safe investment.
The investment scheme in the pension involved buying a studio apartment off-plan (ie not yet built)  on 
a development called  Buccament Bay on St Vincent  and the Grenadines.  The purchase price was 
£105,000. Mr S paid a deposit of £31,500 with the balance to be paid in stages  as the building  work 
progressed.  The target completion date was 31 July 2011.   The investment was not however a 
straightforward property investment with the property to be used as a second home  or holiday home.  
The owner  had only limited  rights to occupy the property.  Rather  it was part of a scheme  to be 
managed by or for a Harlequin company which was to manage the whole resort  and provide an 
income to investors through rental income  and with the possibility of profits from the sale of the 
property in the future. 
It is the case that the police and the SFO announced the launching of an investigation into parts of 
Harlequin in 2013.  However, this was done via press  release, which  did generate publicity, not 
personal contact  to individual investors.  And, as I understand it, it was the UK sales arm of Harlequin 
that was to be investigated rather than, say, the Harlequin  Company running the Buccament Bay 
scheme.
I do not think  it necessarily  follows that in 2013 an investor   even one who was relatively  risk averse  
 would  conclude  that he had cause to complain about his adviser who recommended the investment 
rather than, say, the people and or companies  that were being investigated  for alleged fraud.
That said the uncertain position of the investment started to become clear notwithstanding any 
positive comments being made  by Harlequin itself or by Mr M in this case.  The picture  will have 
emerged that the properties Mr S was investing in were not being built and the investment could not 
easily be cancelled or surrendered, and the investment monies returned.  
But the investment did not dramatically and suddenly fail in 2013.   This is shown by Rowanmoors 
letter in October 2014.  It talks of continuing to show the value as book cost until there was an 
Ref: DRN895158113acceptable valuation  showing a different value.  It  did not say the investment was a write off, for 
example.  It did however  say that at that point the investment could not be crystallised   meaning it 
could not be encashed  or sold.  
I think  this ought to have given Mr S cause for concern despite the reassurances  he was getting from 
Mr M.  Put another way I think this letter probably should have  given Mr S relevant knowledge.  
However, the letter of October  2014  was within  three years of the making  of the complaint in 2016.
I have so far only mentioned the Harlequin investment  in the pension.  Mr S also had a direct 
investment in a second  property on St Lucia.  I cannot  see that this direct  investment makes a 
difference  that Mr S would have had any more information  about that investment that would have 
given him relevant knowledge.
I cannot see that there is evidence upon which to base  a finding that Mr S had relevant knowledge 
before the letter of October 2014.  It is therefore my view that the complaint was made within  the time 
limits set out in the jurisdiction rules.
jurisdiction  the not acting for Positive Solutions point
Put briefly,  we can consider  Mr Ss complaint if the complaint is about  a regulated activity  that Positive 
Solutions authorised  Mr M to carry on.
In this case, the Harlequin investments are unregulated collective investment schemes  (UCIS).  
Advising on the merits of investing in such investments is a regulated activity.  So too is advising 
someone to switch their pension rights from an existing personal pension to a SIPP.  And so is advice 
on how to invest the funds in the new SIPP including  any advice to invest those  funds  in a UCIS.   
Arranging such investments is also a regulated activity.
Mr S says Mr M did give him such advice and did arrange those investments.
To a degree  Positive  Solutions  seems to disagree that there was advice  and it certainly says it did not 
authorise Mr M to give the disputed advice  or arrange  those investments.  Its main position  is that if 
Mr M did do those things  he was not acting  for Positive Solutions  when he did so and so it is not 
responsible, and the complaint cannot  be considered against it.
was there advice?
Mr S says he was advised  by Mr M to make two investments with Harlequin.  The  first investment was 
to be through  Mr Ss pension and Mr S says Mr M advised him to transfer his existing pension  to a 
Rowanmoor SIPP in order to invest.   (He says Mr M also advised him about investing the rest of his 
pension fund.)  And the second investment was made  outside the pension from Mr Ss other savings 
and investment funds.  He  says other regulated  investments  were surrendered to make that 
investment.
In my view the evidence does  support Mr S and shows that he was advised  by Mr M even if the 
advice was not set out in a formal recommendation  letter.
On 10 July 2009  Mr M wrote to Mr S on Positive Solutions  note paper.  The letter was headed 
Caribbean Property Investments and included:
As per our telephone  conversation I am pleased to advise that I have reserved the one bed 
studio in St Vincent  at £105,000.  This will be an asset of your pension fund and as mentioned 
you only need  to find 30%, as such £31,500, so you are not tying up a large percentage  of 
your pension  fund.
I have also reserved the 2-bed wrap apartment in St Lucia at the current  price  of £200,000; 
these are due to increase by 10-15% after the launch  next week.   As you suggested I have 
Ref: DRN895158114enclosed the relevant form so you can pay the £31,000 reservation fee on this one with your 
debit card
These two properties will in my opinion achieve excellent  rental  incomes and capital  growth.  
Plus a very nice place to go and play golf  in four years time!
I will write to you again with full details shortly, including  the pension paperwork  etc  
On 16 July 2009  Mr M wrote, again on Positive Solution note paper.  The letter was headed New 
pension Plan  SIPP,  and included:
As we mentioned there is currently just one SIPP (Self Invested Pension Plan) provider  
currently that accepts  offshore property, specifically Rowanmoor.   This is a company I have 
dealt with for some time and they are one of the largest and most forward thinking in the UK.  
This of course  relates to the property in St Vincent  and the deposit is to come from the  
stakeholder pension.  
I enclose the completed application  you just need to complete the expression of wish 
section on page 6 and sign the declaration on page 8.  The other form enclosed relates  to the 
adviser fees.  As you will see I am not charging any fees for setting up the plan or in 
connection with the transfer from Aviva.  There will be a need for ongoing advice in the years 
ahead.  As  such I have  based this on 0.5% of the plan value, as per the pensions  and 
investments I look after for you now.  Provided  you are happy  with thisyou just need to sign 
on the back where  marked.
In December 2009 Mr M, again on Positive Solutions notepaper,  wrote to Mr S with recommendations  
for investment  of the balance of around £85,000 in the SIPP in various investment funds  to be held in 
the SIPP  on a platform with Seven Investment Management. This letter also referred to Mr S having a 
medium risk profile.
Although the first two letters  are not on their face written  as recommendations in the same way as the 
third letter I mention, the first two are written to record earlier conversations.  And they strongly  
indicate advice was given  by Mr M to Mr S.  They show that Mr M recommended to Mr S that he 
invest in the Harlequin investments and that he transfer his pension  to a new SIPP  with Rowanmoor 
for one of the investments.
Positive Solutions has said:
The adviser has previously  informed us that he made it very clear to this client that he was 
personally unable to provide any advice on this type of investment and that there was no 
regulated sales process at Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd which  would 
accommodate this type of business.
To pause there for a moment  I note that Positive Solution made the same point  in exactly the same 
words about  another  adviser who was also said to have recommended Harlequin investments in two 
other complaints I have seen.  (What is more there was clear  evidence in one of those  cases that 
contradicted what the adviser  had apparently  told Positive Solutions about  making it clear  to the client 
that he was personally unable to give advice.)  It  is as if either Positive  Solutions had mixed  up the 
cases, or the advisers had somehow been given exactly the same explanation to use.  Either  
explanation tends to undermine  the credibility of what has been said.
Positive Solutions went on to say:
He furthermore  informed  the clients, that it was unlikely  that the investment within  this 
environment would [be] covered by the FSCS and highlighted that he was only able to act as 
an introducer via a company entitled [name given] who in turn acted  as a conduit to 
Harlequin who arranged the proposed purchase.
Ref: DRN895158115When our investigator  asked  Positive Solutions for a copy of Mr Ms statement  in which  he made 
these points Positive  Solutions  replied as follows:
As I recall I became a sub agent with [Harlequin agents name  given] near the end of 2009 
and as such  it is unlikely that I would have received any commission.
I can therefore confirm  there was no conflict of interest and I acted  for [Mr S] as his IFA, which 
at that point I had been doing so for over 12 years
None of the letters I have  quoted above, or any other I have seen, refer to the Harlequin agent.   None 
say or give the impression  that Mr M is only making  an introduction to any third party rather  than 
himself recommending  the investments and SIPP  and pension switch being discussed. Rather  they 
just indicate that Mr M was  as he says  acting as Mr Ss financial adviser, and that he was giving 
investment advice as such. 
was the advice given  on behalf of Positive Solutions?
Mr M was not an employee of Positive Solutions  he was its agent.  Positive  Solutions say Mr M was 
acting beyond  the scope  of the agency  agreement  between them  and so he was not acting for it if he 
gave the disputed advice.
The law recognises more  than one type of agency.  There is agency based on actual authority.  And 
in this case, there was a written agency agreement between Mr M and Positive Solutions setting out 
the terms of which Mr M acted for Positive Solutions.  There is a general  point in agency of this type 
that the agent  is required  to act in the principals best interests.
In this case giving advice on investments Positive Solutions had not approved and not accounting  to it 
in any way means  Mr M was not acting in accordance  with the actual  authority he had been given.
That is not however the end of the matter  because there is also agency based on apparent or 
ostensible authority.  It arises when  the principal  represents to third parties through  words or conduct  
that the agent  has authority to act on its behalf and the third party  reasonably relies upon that 
representation.
The case law makes  it clear that whether  a claimant has relied on a representation is dependent on 
the circumstances of the individual case. So here, I must consider whether, on the facts  of this 
individual case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mr S that Mr M had Positive Solutions authority 
to act on its behalf in carrying  out the activities he now complains about; and
Mr S reasonably  relied on that representation in entering into the transactions he now 
complains about.
I need to decide whether  Positive  Solutions placed Mr M in a position which  would objectively 
generally be regarded as carrying  its authority  to enter into transactions such as setting  up of the 
SIPP to transfer existing pensions  to it in order to invest in the Harlequin investment scheme  and/or 
make direct investments into such investment schemes. Put another  way, did Positive  Solutions 
knowingly  or even  unwittingly  lead Mr S to believe that Mr M was authorised to conduct  business 
on its behalf  of a type (namely, advising and arranging  investments) that he was not in fact authorised 
to conduct?
If I find that it did, I also need  to decide whether Mr S reasonably  relied on any representation Positive  
Solutions made.
Did Positive Solutions  represent to Mr S that Mr M had the relevant authority?
Ref: DRN895158116The ultimate  question is whether there was apparent  authority in relation to this transaction. But to 
answer that question, it is right for me to consider whether Positive Solutions placed Mr M in a 
position which  would  objectively carry Positive Solutions  authority for Mr M to conduct  business  of a 
type he did in fact conduct.
Mr S and Mr M had a client/adviser relationship  that predated  Mr M working with Positive Solutions.   
Mr S had also made other undisputed investments through  Mr M at Positive Solutions between 2005 
and 2007.  There can be no question that in 2009  Mr S understood Mr M was with Positive  Solutions 
regardless of what other firms he had been with before.  It  is not unusual for clients  to remain  with 
advisers as they move  from firm to firm with the client becoming a client of the new firm not the 
adviser himself.
Its not clear Mr S was given a terms of business agreement in respect of the disputed  advice, but he 
seems to have been given one in 2006.  This showed  that Mr M could advise  on and arrange  
investments and set up SIPPs for Positive Solutions  customers. None  of these activities  would be 
unexpected for an IFA firm. They are all the type of activity that IFAs  are usually authorised  to do. 
Any restrictions  on the authority to give advice  on transferring existing pensions, setting  up a SIPP or 
using only certain investments would not have been visible to Mr S. So, for example, he would not 
know that an adviser should  only recommend  approved investments, should obtain clearance from 
Positive Solutions before giving  certain types of advice  and should present the advice in certain  ways.
Positive Solutions held itself out as an independent financial adviser that gave advice and offered 
products from the whole  of the market after assessing a clients needs. No information was provided 
to clients  or potential  clients about the agent being authorised in relation  to approved  products only.  
Positive Solutions authorised Mr M to give investment  advice on its behalf and Mr M was held out by it 
as authorised to give investment advice  on its behalf. Positive Solutions arranged for Mr M to appear 
on the FSA register in respect  of Positive Solutions. And Mr M was approved to carry on the 
controlled function  CF30 at the time of the disputed advice.
Positive Solutions placed Mr M in a position which  would,  in the outside world, generally be regarded 
as having authority to carry out the acts Mr S complains about.
Positive Solutions provided Mr M with Positive Solution business stationery and the transfer of 
servicing request form so Mr M could advise  on the existing pensions.
It was in Positive Solutions interest for the general public, including Mr S to understand that it was 
taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers.  I am satisfied that Positive  Solutions 
intended Mr S to act on its representation that Mr M was its financial adviser.
I further consider  that the provision of financial advice was a key part of Positive Solutions business. 
It said in its terms of business that its Partners would  give impartial,  independent  financial advice. I 
do not see how Positive  Solutions could  have  carried out its business  activities at all if the general  
public had not treated registered individuals like Mr M as having authority to give investment advice 
on behalf of Positive Solutions.
It is my view that all these points taken together mean that Positive  Solutions did represent to Mr S 
that Mr M was authorised  to give the investment  advice he gave  to Mr S.
Did Mr S reasonably rely on Positive Solutions representation?
Mr S has said he understood Mr M to be acting  as a Positive Solutions adviser  when he gave the 
advice he complains  about.  Positive Solutions has said that Mr M made it clear he was not acting as a 
Positive Solutions adviser when he gave the advice. There  is no evidence to support  this and the 
point tends to be contradicted by Mr M himself  when he said he advised Mr S as his IFA. 
Ref: DRN895158117I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr S knew or should reasonably have known that Mr M was 
acting in any capacity other than a Positive Solutions adviser.  
In my view,  on balance, the evidence does  indicate  that Mr S proceeded  on the basis that 
Mr M was acting in every respect as the agent of Positive Solutions  with authority from Positive  
Solutions so to act.  In other words, Mr S reasonably relied on Positive Solutions  representation that 
Mr M was authorised to give the investment advice he gave to Mr S.
It is therefore  my finding  that Positive Solutions is responsible for the advice Mr S complains about 
and that we can consider his complaint.
my provisional  findings  - merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S was advised  to transfer his pension  to invest in a SIPP in order to invest  in a Harlequin 
investment.  He was also advised to invest in a second Harlequin investment outside his pension.
I note the following comments made by the Upper  Tribunal Tax and Chancery  Chamber in the case 
Alistair Burns v Financial  Conduct Authority [2018]  UKUT 0246 (TCC):
273 It would be readily apparent to any competent financial adviser that for an 
unsophisticated retail  investor with a relatively small pension pot represented either by 
interests in a defined benefit scheme or in a personal  pension  invested in a spread  of 
traditional investments,  to switch his benefits into a SIPP  which was to be wholly invested in 
either a single or very small number of inherently  risky overseas property investments was a 
wholly unsuitable course of action for that investor to take
I agree with that view.  The investment in Harlequin was relatively high risk and there is no evidence 
that the investment was suitable for Mr S. 
In my view investing in an unregulated off-plan overseas  property investment scheme  involved a high 
degree of risk which was not suitable for Mr S. There is no evidence he was a high-risk investor. Mr M 
said in the letter of 14 December 2009 that Mr S had a medium risk profile,  and this does not seem 
unreasonable.  Mr S had suffered investment  losses in the past and did not want to make further  risky 
investments, but he was prepared to continue to invest based on advice from the same adviser,  so he 
was not completely risk adverse.  It  is however my view that Mr S should not have been advised  to 
transfer his pension to a SIPP in order to invest in Harlequin.  He should have been advised not to 
transfer his pensions at all. Nor should have been advised to make the second Harlequin  investment 
outside his pension. 
There is no evidence  to suggest  Mr S would have invested in Harlequin if he had been advised  
against it by Positive Solutions. (Or if he had been so advised by another  IFA if Positive  Solutions had 
refused to advise on the Harlequin investment scheme.) It is therefore my present view that if he had 
been given suitable  advice Mr S would  have  left his pension with the existing pension provider  and he 
would not have made  his Harlequin investment in his pension.  
And if Mr S had been advised against investing in Harlequin in his pension because it was a high-risk 
investment it seems more  likely than not that he would not have invested in Harlequin outside his 
pension either.  
Only a proportion of the SIPP  was used to invest in Harlequin and the rest has (after some  initial 
delay) been  used to invest  in other funds  about which there is no complaint and which the adviser 
continued to oversee after he had left Positive Solutions and later still be Mr Ss present financial 
Ref: DRN895158118adviser.  It  is therefore fair and reasonable  in the circumstances to remedy only the Harlequin 
investments and not the entire SIPP.
Mr S has lost the money he invested in Harlequin which he thought  was a reasonable and worthwhile 
investment that he thought  involved little risk. He will have suffered considerable trouble and upset as 
a result. 
how to put things right
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited should, as far as possible,  put Mr S into the position  he 
would now be in but for the unsuitable advice to make two investments in Harlequin.
In principle Quilter should take ownership of Harlequin investments in return for a payment of a sum 
equal to the present values and pay the difference between that sum and the amount the investment 
would now be worth  if the sum invested in Harlequin had grown in a way equal to a relevant  bench 
mark index.   
Ideally, Quilter should take full ownership  of the Harlequin contracts  from Mr S so that it could  secure  
any future benefit that arises from the investment. But my understanding is that the ownership of the 
Harlequin investment cant currently be transferred.  In that case  the value of the Harlequin 
investment should be assumed to be zero.
So in return for the compensation  to be paid, Quilter can ask that Mr S provides an undertaking  to pay 
it any amount he may receive  from the Harlequin investment in the future, as well as any other 
payment he may receive from any party as a result  of this investment.  Quilter will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing  up this undertaking. If it asks Mr S to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation Ive recommended above may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking. 
In addition, Quilter is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr S of any claim  he may have 
against third parties  in relation to the Harlequin investment. If Quilter chooses to take an assignment 
of rights, it must be affected before payment of compensation  is made. Positive Solutions must first 
provide a draft of the assignment/s  to Mr S for his consideration and agreement.
Mr S has only paid a deposit  to Harlequin,  but the contract he made  was to pay the balance if the 
property development reached the appropriate stage. So in theory Harlequin  could call upon Mr S to 
pay that balance later if everything isnt assigned.  I consider it unlikely  to be the case  but its 
important to highlight as if that were  to happen, Mr S would  not be able to refer the matter back to this 
Service again.
The compensation  figure  should be paid as a cash sum in the case  of the non-pension investment  
and paid into the pension in relation to the pension  investment.  In the case  of the pension  
compensation the figure paid should  be the sum required  to increase the transfer value to the level it 
would have been if the Harlequin part of the SIPP portfolio had performed  in line with the benchmark  
index.
The relevant benchmark  should be the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return  Index.  The  
FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE WMA  Stock 
Market Income  total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes,  mainly 
UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure  for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return. 
If it is unable to pay the pension part of the compensation into Mr Ss SIPP, Quilter should pay the 
compensation as a cash sum to Mr S. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP,  it would  have 
provided a taxable income. So the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would  otherwise have been paid.
Ref: DRN895158119The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax at retirement. For 
example, if Mr S is a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement, the notional allowance  would equate to a 
reduction in the total amount  equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S had been  
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional  allowance  should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Quilter should  also pay Mr S £500 for the trouble and upset he has been caused in seeing  a 
proportion of his pension and non-pension  investment money lost.
Quilter should  provide  Mr S with a calculation showing its calculation of the compensation due in a 
simple and easy to follow format. 
The compensation  should be paid promptly and interest of 8% simple interest should be paid on the 
compensation if it is not paid within  28 days of Quilter being informed of Mr Ss acceptance of my final 
decision.
my provisional  decision
It is my provisional decision that we can consider Mr Ss complaint, that the complaint should  be 
upheld and that Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions Limited should pay fair redress as set out above.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8951581