K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
background
During a meeting in 1996 Mr and Mrs W applied for a mortgage with Santander. At the same 
time they took out a PPI policy in Mr Ws sole name to protect their repayments if Mr W lost 
his job or was unable to work due to accident or sickness.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as she didnt think  there  was 
enough information to conclude the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it 
provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr and Mrs W disagree. They say they werent  made aware the policy was optional.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting. Santander  had to make it clear the PPI was optional 
and not a condition of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs W say this wasnt done but havent given us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make them  think this. And Santander 
havent been able to give us any of the sales documentation from the time. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied more on what  we know about 
the type of PPI products  that were sold at the time and what  I think  is most likely to have 
happened.
The PPI policy that was sold is a standalone policy and applied for on a separate application 
form with a separate direct debit mandate from the mortgage. Due to the passage  of time 
Santander doesnt have a copy of the application  form that was completed but Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve been able to see on their bank statements that separate  payments were taken out 
of their account for the PPI and mortgage.  
So I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve understood that the PPI was separate  from the mortgage. 
Also, only Mr W was covered by the policy but both Mr and Mrs W were jointly responsible  
for the mortgage.  If PPI wasnt optional I wouldve expected both parties to the mortgage 
would have to be covered.  So I think it is likely there would  have  been  some discussion 
about PPI and what level of cover  they wanted and that they chose  to cover Mr W only.  
This was an advised  sale of PPI. What this means is that Santander not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs W could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for Mr Ws needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN87705572I dont know if Santander took all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr W for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make  a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr W says he was entitled to some  sick pay but had no other 
means of covering  the mortgage  payments if he was unable  to work. The policy  
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and covered their mortgage payments for 
up to a minimum  of12 months  per claim if Mr W was too sick to work or lost his job.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs W in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr and Mrs W at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy  they could cancel  it. 
I also need to consider  whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs W information in a way which 
was clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or 
not they wanted to take the policy out. I dont  know if Santander gave all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Mr and 
Mrs W have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think  they wouldve still taken out 
the PPI policy  if theyd been given  all the proper information at the time of sale.
This means  Mr and Mrs W arent  any worse  off as a result of any wrong doing by Santander.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against  
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8770557