K821x#15Complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway). He complains that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality.
Background
In October 2018, Mr J acquired a used car from a supplying dealer. He financed the 
acquisition through a HPA with Moneyway (arranged through a broker). He said that 
when he acquired  the car it had no oil or water  and the engine  management  light was 
on. Mr J said he bought oil and filled up the car and the light went off.
In February 2019, Mr J said that the car was rattling and so he contacted Moneyway 
about this. He said that Moneyway  contacted the supplying  dealer which said that 
Mr J had contacted  it about  the issue in December 2018 and then continued to drive 
the car. He said this wasnt  true.
Moneyway said that when Mr J raised  his concerns, he said the car was being  
returned to the supplying  dealer for repairs. The supplying  dealer said it believed  the 
damage to the car was caused by Mr J continuing to use the car with a fault. An 
independent inspection was carried out on 29 April 2019 which noted that the 
supplying dealer had asked Mr J to return the car in December 2018, but this hadnt  
happened, and the car wasnt  returned until March 2019. The inspection report 
concluded that had the car been  returned in December the repair  may have  been  
minimal but as the car had continued to be used in a defective  state  it was now likely 
to need a replacement engine and that this should be Mr Js responsibility. The report  
noted that the initial cause for failure may have been  developing at the point of 
supply but said the current issues were due to it being used in a defective  state.
Moneyway contacted  the broker which said Mr J had explained  to it that not long 
after acquiring the car the engine management  light came on and he took it to a third-
party garage and a code was cleared, and he was told that there was no cause for 
concern. Moneyway said the issues were due to driver neglect and didnt uphold 
Mr Js complaint.
Mr J didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld. 
She thought that, on balance, it was more  likely  than not that there wouldve been 
some sort of warning  signs  before  the engine failure occurred, such  as warning 
lights. She said the car was inspected by an independent inspector and Moneyway 
hadnt done anything wrong  by relying  on this report.
Mr J didnt agree. He reiterated that he hadnt  been told to stop driving  the car in 
December.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Ref: DRN88327382Mr Js car experienced major issues in February  2019, less than six months after 
acquisition and after being driven by Mr J around 2,000 miles which I thought  raised 
concerns that the car wasnt  sufficiently durable.
An independent inspection was carried out in April 2019 which concluded  that the 
initial cause for failure may have been  developing at finance inception . The 
inspection report then stated that the issues with the car were caused  by Mr J 
continuing to drive with a known defect. This is based on the inspector being told that 
Mr J contacted the dealer in December 2018  and was told to return  the car and 
didnt.
There was conflicting evidence regarding the contact  in December 2018, and I 
considered this a major factor in determining the outcome of the complaint. The 
dealer said this contact happened but provided no further  evidence  of it. Mr J said he 
didnt contact the dealer about the issues in December and said he provided  copies  
of his records to the broker to show  no contact  was made. Without further evidence 
to show that Mr J contacted the dealer in December 2018, I didnt find I could  say 
contact was made in December 2018  and that Mr J understood he needed to return 
the car then. Without this I didnt find that I could say that Mr J was aware of any 
major issues with the car until February at which point he stopped using the car.
Mr J said that when  he collected  the car from the dealer at acquisition the engine 
management light was on (and he has provided a photograph to show  this). He went  
to get oil and carried out the refill and the light went  off. I accepted Mr Js testimony 
regarding this, and I found his actions  were reasonable.
The broker said that Mr J took the car to a third-party garage and a fault code was 
cleared. I had no further details of this. 
Contact was made at end of February  2019,  when the car was returned, and the oil 
and filter were changed. Following this the car was returned  and Mr J said that he 
didnt drive it. It was then returned  to the supplying dealer.
Overall I found that I could only say that Mr J was made aware of the potentially  serious  
issue with his car at end of February after which he didnt drive  it. Without  further evidence to 
show he was aware before this I found, on balance,  Mr J did stop using  the car when he 
became aware  of the need to do so and therefore  the issues  with the car shouldnt  be 
considered as attributable to him as drive on damage. Based on this, I found, on balance,  
that the car wasnt  sufficiently durable  and therefore  wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mr J didnt make any payments on his account  after February 2019. He should  have 
continued with his payments until this issue was resolved,  but as he didnt have use of the 
car from this time, I found he wasnt liable for these payments. The car was recovered and 
sold at auction.  Given the payments hadnt  be made  on the account since February 2019, I 
didnt find this unreasonable.  The sale proceeds  of £784 were  applied to Mr Js account. 
This left an outstanding  balance of £3,8575.76 (which included collection charges of £600, 
plus £1,827.20  of arrears).
Given the unique  circumstances  of this complaint I thought the fairest  resolution  was for Mr J 
to no longer be liable for the remaining balance on his account and for any adverse  
information regarding  this agreement to be removed  from his credit file.
Ref: DRN88327383My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr J acquired  a used car under a HPA with Moneyway. Under  the regulations, specifically 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Moneyway can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors  such  
as the age and mileage  of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. In this case the car was over seven years old and had been  
driven over 80,000  miles at the point of acquisition.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, Mr Js car experienced major issues within a short 
time of him acquiring it and when he had driven a relatively low number of miles.  This raises 
concerns about  how durable the car was. The inspection report  suggested the initial problem 
could have been developing at the point of supply  and without further evidence I cant find I 
can say Mr J was aware of the issues before  end February 2019 at which point he stopped 
driving the car. 
As no further  evidence  was provided  in response to my provisional decision  I find, on 
balance, that I uphold this complaint. As I have previously set out I find the fairest resolution 
is for the balance on Mr Js account  to be written off and any adverse information to be 
removed from his credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Secure Trust Bank Pic should:
write off the outstanding balance on Mr Js account (which  includes the arrears  from 
March 2019) due to the car no longer being  able to be used from end February 2019 
by Mr J and not being  of satisfactory quality at the point of supply; and
remove any adverse information  from his credit  file (to the extent this has been 
applied).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8832738