K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building  Society records  are incorrect. They say it 
has the wrong date for when they became members of the society, which  restricts their 
access to loyalty products. They say Nationwides records  dont show  Mrs R as a joint 
account holder  on their mortgage. They ask that it corrects its records,  offers them the right 
ISA loyalty interest rate and apologises.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage in 2000 with a provider  that is now part of Nationwide. 
They had other products,  such  as savings accounts, before this. But when they went online 
they saw that their membership status was incorrect.  Mrs R wasnt  able to open a loyalty ISA 
with the correct rate of interest. Mrs R says shes concerned that Nationwides failure to 
record her as a joint account  holder on the mortgage would affect her property rights.
In its response to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint, Nationwide said:
Mrs R has been a member since 1981. It said it cant change the incorrect information in 
its systems. It apologised and paid £125 compensation.
if Mrs R opens an ISA account it will ensure the correct loyalty interest rate is applied 
and backdated  to August 2018,  when  she tried to open the account.  It said she should 
contact it if she wants  to open  products in future and it will ensure the correct  rate is 
applied. 
it had recorded  Mrs R as a joint account  holder on the mortgage since 2013.  It accepts 
its likely  she was always a joint account  holder.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said we cant 
require Nationwide  to update its IT systems  or correct Mr and Mrs Rs records  when  it has 
said this isnt possible. But Nationwide had offered to apply the correct  loyalty rate, 
apologised and offered £125 compensation. He said this was fair and reasonable. 
The adjudicator said Nationwide had accepted that Mrs R was always  a joint account holder 
on the mortgage. He said ownership  of the property is a matter for the land registry.  
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. Mr R said theyd previously experienced IT problems with 
Nationwide. He said Mrs R still cant open  an ISA online as Nationwides  records  still show 
the incorrect loyalty period. Mr R said Nationwide should update  its IT systems so their 
membership period is properly reflected. He said he didnt consider the matter of lost interest 
closed. 
Mr R said its reasonable to ask Nationwide to perform an audit and confirm  the property 
registration and mortgage deeds  tally and are in joint names. He said if there  were  a 
bereavement and the documents were  incorrect this could add to problems at a time of grief. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
Ref: DRN87673022words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
membership status:
Nationwide accepts that Mrs R has had products with it for longer than shown on its 
systems. It says it cant amend Mrs Rs membership status  on its systems. I appreciate 
Mrs Rs frustration about this. But I cant reasonably  require Nationwide  to do something its 
unable to do. I cant reasonably require Nationwide to change  or update its IT systems. 
What I can do is consider whether Nationwide has done enough to ensure that Mrs R 
doesnt miss out as a result. I think it has. It confirmed to Mrs R that shes  been  a member 
since 1981. It says she can take out products in the usual way and contact it so that it can 
ensure the correct interest rate is applied. And it checked that she hasnt had any products 
previously that should have  had a better rate. 
the loyalty ISA:
Mrs R was unable to open a loyalty ISA online in mid 2018. Nationwide  said if Mrs R opens a 
loyalty saver  ISA she should contact it and it will ensure the correct  interest  rate (based on 
her membership status) is applied and back date this to 12 August 2018. 
Nationwide confirmed this offer is still open,  but said it would be better if Mrs R opens  the 
ISA before  the end of the tax year (1 April 2019). It says she can transfer  funds from her 
existing ISA and it will correct the interest  earned. 
Nationwide paid £125 compensation. I think its response was fair and reasonable.
the mortgage account:
Nationwide confirmed the mortgage  account  is in Mr and Mrs Rs joint names.  Nationwide 
says Mrs R wasnt shown as a joint account holder when Nationwide  took over the mortgage 
from their previous provider. But it accepts  most  likely she was always a joint account  holder. 
I dont think its reasonable to ask Nationwide to perform an audit or confirm that any deeds  it 
holds tally with records at the Land  Registry. I cant see how problems with Nationwides IT 
systems or the names on the mortgage  account  could have affected  Mr and Mrs Rs 
property title  and Mr and Mrs R havent provided any evidence of this. 
If Mr and Mrs R want  to check their ownership of the property they should contact the Land 
Registry or a solicitor.  I dont think its reasonable to require Nationwide  to pay for this.
I think Nationwide responded reasonably to Mr and Mrs R by confirming that the mortgage 
account is in their joint names. I dont think it needs to do more. Nationwide says it will send 
a further letter confirming the account  is in joint names. If this hasnt arrived  and Mr and 
Mrs R still feel it would  be useful, they should  contact Nationwide.
Ref: DRN87673023my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find Nationwide  Building Societys 
response and offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8767302