K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains Callcredit Consumer Limited merged information relating to a third party 
with her credit file. She says this caused her bank to reduce her credit limit. She wants  the 
entries removed and the restoration of her previous  credit limit.
background
Mrs B tells us her credit  score was adversely affected when Callcredit merged a third partys  
information with her own details. She said her bank has lowered her credit card limit in 
response to her credit score dropping. Mrs B also wants details of two recent  credit  searches 
removed from her credit file.
Callcredit said it had received  the information - about an incorrect  alias link - from another 
financial business Ill refer to as R. It said it had taken steps  to remove  the erroneous 
information once  it became  aware of the situation.  But it didnt think  it had acted in error.
The adjudicator did not recommend this complaint should be upheld. He said hed seen 
evidence the source  of the third party information was from R. He said Callcredit only stores  
information provided by lenders. And that it had now removed the incorrect information. As 
the reason the other partys information was added was due to a link provided by R he didnt 
think Callcredit had made  any error. But it was open  to Mrs B to complain to R. 
Mrs B did not agree  with the outcome.  She thought it was up to Callcredit to check 
information before publishing it. As its not been  possible to resolve  the complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mrs B has had this unfortunate experience and the effect  it may have had upon  her 
credit score. Whilst its clear  shes been the victim of an error,  as this complaint is against  
Callcredit I can only deal with issues for which it is responsible.
Callcredit receives information  from financial  businesses which it reports in the form of an 
individuals credit file. Its up to the reporting business to ensure the information  it passes on 
is correct. And whilst I understand why Mrs B might  think Callcredit should check the 
information it receives - the huge volume  of information makes this a practical impossibility.
Its also important to note that this service is not an industry regulator. This means we do not 
set the rules nor can we tell credit reference  agencies how information should be received 
and processed.  And we cannot  instruct a business to check  each item of information it 
receives.
I can see Callcredit took steps to remove the incorrect information  once it became  aware  of 
the issue. And in this respect I think its done all that can reasonably  be expected.
Im sorry  if Mrs Bs credit  score has been affected  by this situation and her bank has reduced 
her credit limit. But thats essentially a matter between her and her bank. Decisions on 
lending are not made by Callcredit.  And credit scores are made up of multiple  factors so its 
not possible to say if one factor has had a greater effect than another.
Ref: DRN89759152Ill deal briefly with the two credit checks which Mrs B referred to as being  requested  whilst 
this complaint was being investigated. One relates  to an enquiry from her bank.  And as 
Callcredit didnt  request  this search I cant ask it to remove  the details as they appear to be 
accurately recorded.  The other appears under the your searches heading - which  indicates 
Mrs B was the source  of the request.  So that also seems to be accurately recorded. 
In summary,  I dont find Callcredit  has done  anything wrong in this case  so I shant be 
upholding the complaint.  
But this does not affect Mrs Bs right to bring  a complaint against another  business if she 
feels that business has made a mistake which has impacted upon her.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8975915