K821x#15complaint
Mr C, as executor of his late sisters  (Miss Cs) estate, complains on its behalf about  the poor 
service received from Credit Suisse  International (the business) when he tried to change  the 
name of the account holder from Miss C to himself.   
In summary,  he says: 
He didnt receive a letter from the business dated 24 March 2016.
Hes unhappy about the lack of communication from the business.
Hes unhappy the investment hasnt accrued any interest since it matured. 
Hes unhappy about having to provide notarised copies of documents.  
background
On 20 March 2016, following the death  of Miss C, Mr C first wrote a letter  to the business  
asking it to change  the account  holder name  into his name so that he could administer  the 
funds for Miss Cs daughter, his niece.  
On 23 March 2016, the business acknowledged Mr Cs letter and the original documents 
hed sent in support of his request. In response  it said We will send  a separate letter in 
response to any enquiry  within  the next few days. 
The business maintains that it sent a further  letter dated 24 March 2016 stating:
We enclose  Information about the Plan(s)  held, including details of the options available
and option forms.  Please  complete and return the appropriate form(s) with the following
documents,
 Proof of Identity and Proof of Address of all New Holders or Payee. 
Mr C maintains in the strongest terms that he didnt receive this letter so wasnt  able to 
respond. 
On 3 January  2019, the business sent a further letter  requesting the outstanding documents  
relating to Mr Cs request,  to be sent at his earliest convenience. Mr C called the business to 
ask why it hadnt contacted him earlier, and why it had taken so long. He also said he hadnt 
received the letter of 24 March 2016. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
Although Mr C says he didnt receive  the letter dated 24 March 2016, the letter sent 
(and received) beforehand made clear that he would get another  letter within  a few 
days. So Mr C could  have, in the meantime,  contacted the business to say he was 
expecting a letter but hadnt  received anything, but he didnt. 
On balance hes satisfied the letter was  more likely than not  sent by the business. 
The business said that the January 2019 letter was sent as some  time had passed 
and it hadnt received  any documentation from Mr C. It could have  written  to Mr C 
sooner but its not for us to tell it how to run its business. 
Mr C wasnt  happy with having to get a notarised copy  of the requested documents 
but the business doesnt appear to have had a fair chance to respond, because he 
Ref: DRN80212842didnt make the point  clear instead  suggesting he could  complain but its unlikely to 
do anything, so didnt actually complain. 
When the investment  matured it wouldnt  generally accumulate  interest.  The terms 
and conditions under  the heading What happens following the Plan Maturity  Date?   
States:
oYou will receive the full repayment  of your Initial Investment plus any 
applicable return (including any bonus,  if applicable). You will be contacted 
prior to the Plan Maturity  Date  to determine  what you wish to do with the 
proceeds of your Account. You should then expect  to receive the proceeds of 
your investment within 15 Banking  Days following the Plan Maturity Date.
The business has confirmed that there was no evidence of any contact with Mr C 
before May 2018 prior to the maturity  date.  
When asked what Mr C wouldve done with the money, he said:
oIt would have been invested in a vehicle operated  by 1825, in which she [his 
niece] already has an investment in Trust. She [his niece]  does not come of 
age until 30th June  of this year, at which point all funds will transfer into her 
ownership.
Following a series of questions Mr C confirmed that it was an Investment  Trust Fund  
which has been in place since 2017   in a medium risk portfolio where 32% is in 
Fixed Interest  Instruments, set up especially for his niece.  
On balance the investigators satisfied that:
oThe business failed  to send out a notification prior to maturity, that would 
have allowed Mr C to submit any documents  to allow the investment to be 
encashed upon maturity and re-invested  in 1825  which  hes satisfied Mr C 
wouldve done. 
In order to put things  right, the business  should  (upon being supplied with the correct 
information) do the following:
oLook the percentage growth  of the investment with 1825 from the date of the 
investment maturity, to the date of settlement. 
oIf this is positive, then the percentage growth  should be applied  to the 
business funds. 
oIf there  has been no growth  with the 1825 investment, no redress is due. 
The business agreed with the investigators  view and requested the relevant documentation 
having rejected  the initial  submission from Mr C. 
Mr C also accepted the investigators view and in due course provided evidence from his 
adviser about the 1825 fund performance, showing a full breakdown of the portfolio, where it 
is invested, and the returns on each investment. 
Eventually this allowed  the business  to calculate  the appropriate redress. Roughly four 
months after the investigators view was accepted,  it said:
 We agree to compensate the client following the provided evidence  of the rate that they 
would have earnt on the alternative investment. CSI head Office  accepted  this information. 
We confirm if acceptable  we would now proceed on this basis  by calculating the difference 
(based on the rate supplied) and making  the compensation  payment.
Nevertheless the matter  has been passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ref: DRN80212843Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reason. I 
uphold this complaint.  
I understand that both the business  and Mr C also agree for the reasons that have been  set 
out in the background.  So I dont  think  theres  any purpose in repeating  and summarising the 
points already made. 
Notwithstanding the delays to date, I think the business should pay the redress  as 
recommended by the investigator  immediately  and within seven days  of Mr C accepting 
this decision, now that it has received all the relevant  evidence  and has completed its 
calculations.
In other  words:
oLook the percentage growth  of the investment with the 1825 investment from 
the date of the investment maturity,  to the date of settlement.  
oIf this is positive, then the percentage growth  should be applied  to the 
business funds. 
oIf there  has been no growth  with the 1825 investment, no redress is due. 
If the business fails to pay the redress within seven days  of receipt  of Mr Cs acceptance of 
this final decision,  it should add 8% simple interest  to the payment from the deadline  of the 
seven days, to the date of settlement. 
Unfortunately Im unable  to award Mr C, as the executor of Miss Cs estate, any 
compensation for the trouble and upset  he has personally suffered by the business delays. 
But I hope the business prompt payment in response to this decision  will go some way to 
redressing that upset.  And that his niece for whom he is doing  all this will appreciate all his 
efforts and be able to benefit from her money  soon. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Credit Suisse International should  pay the redress as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80212844
Ref: DRN8021284