K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Nextcredit Limited  lent to him irresponsibly in relation to a loan 
approved in June  2017.
Mr N complains also that Nextcredit handled his requests poorly  which were requests for his 
repayment dates  to be altered, and for the interest  to be frozen. Mr N is upset at some of the 
emails he has received from Nextcredit.
background
I attach my provisional decision dated 8 May 2019, which forms part of this final decision and 
should be read in conjunction with it. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended  to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint  in part. I invited both parties to provide any further comments  they 
may have  or send  in any documents by 22 May 2019 before I reached a further decision.
Nextcredit has agreed with the provisional decision. Mr N has acknowledged  receipt  of it but 
said no more and I have  received nothing  further.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
points, I see no reason to alter the conclusions I reached on 9 May 2019 which are: 
Mr N has agreed  to repay the £222  so I recommend that Nextcredit  (or its agent) and Mr N 
agree a mutually beneficial repayment arrangement. 
Mr N should be compensated for the trouble and upset caused. I think  that this can be 
satisfactorily done by Nextcredit writing a letter of apology to Mr N in relation  to the language 
used and the lack of forbearance shown by the email dated  18 August 2017.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 8 May 2019,  I uphold 
Mr Ns complaint in part and Nextcredit Limited should put things right for Mr N in the way 
I have set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to 
ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision on or before  24 June 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84354102extract of provisional decision dated 8 May 2019
background
Mr N applied for several loans from Nextcredit and two of those are set out below. 
date applied for kind of loan amount status
Loan 1 13 June 2017 Payday for 14 
days£100 refused
Loan 2 21 June 2017 two payments 
over 39 days£150 outstanding
Loan 2 had repayment dates  of 30 June  and 30 July 2017 of about  £89 each which made  the total 
credit charge just over £28. Mr N has not repaid anything towards  the approved  loan and it remains 
outstanding. 
Two final response emails  (FRL) have been sent to Mr N and they are summarised  here.
the first FRL
The first was on 8 August 2017 and Nextcredit explained it needed an up-to-date  Income and 
Expenditure (I&E) form in order to consider  Mr Ns request to freeze interest due to his explanation 
that he was not able to pay the first instalment.  
And Nextcredit reminded  Mr N that it will never refuse any payments towards the loan. This could be 
done by logging onto his on-line account or calling Nextcredit to pay over the phone. And in the 
meantime the interest would continue to be charged  daily in line with the loan agreement.
In fact Mr N had returned  a completed  I&E on 11 July 2017. Nextcredit was mistaken about that point. 
the second FRL
On 4 October 2017 the second FRL was sent in relation  to Mr Ns irresponsible lending complaint. 
Nextcredit also responded to Mr Ns concerns about the way his arrangement to repay was being 
handled. In that FRL, Nextcredit explained how it came to the conclusion that Mr N had a high 
disposable income  figure  and sufficient to repay the £150 loan plus the original interest figure  of 
£28.03. So it did not uphold Mr Ns complaint  about irresponsible  lending.
This FRL also addressed the fact that the I&E had been received on 11 July 2017 and because  of the 
information in it, Nextcredit froze the interest from 21 August 2017 which led to the full amount due to 
be £222. In effect Nextcredit explained that this was a reduction in the outstanding  balance from just 
under £275 to £222.  
And in addition, this FRL said that Nextcredit accepted Mr Ns offer to repay  by £25 each month 
commencing 1 November 2017. Nextcredit said that If your payments are not maintained  as agreed, 
the interest due will be re-applied to your account. 
Mr N agreed to this on 4 October 2017. But no payments  were  received from Mr N and the loan was 
the subject of a default and sent to a third party collector in early  December  2017.  Mr N brought  his 
complaint to this service later in December  2017. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint and she thought that Nextcredit  had carried out 
checks proportionate to the loan and as such did not think that Nextcredit had lent irresponsibly.  She 
referred to the £222 figure offered and agreed to in October  2017. 
Ref: DRN84354103Mr N accepted our adjudicators findings that he did owe Nextcredit money  and has agreed to repay  
the £222  balance. So I consider this element  to have been resolved and I do not plan to review it 
again here. 
Mr N did not wish there to be a default on his credit file about this loan, but our adjudicator  explained 
that as she was not upholding his complaint then it was not something she could ask Nextcredit  to do. 
Mr N asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint  including  those aspects relating to the manner  
he was treated  by email  and on the telephone  when he had asked Nextcredit  to alter his 
repayment dates and freeze  interest  on the loan. 
Mr N has recently  added that he thought that Nextcredit were very unresponsive and sometimes took 
weeks to respond to him. And it was the accumulating interest during the delays in replying  he 
considers to have been unfair. He is not content  that Nextcredit  has applied negative remarks  on my 
account by which I think Mr N means late payment and default entries  on his credit file. Mr N has 
explained that he did not think it unreasonable  for him to cease  paying until the complaint has been 
resolved. 
So in principle it seems  that the irresponsible lending  element  of the complaint has been  resolved 
save for the default entry  element. Along with this credit file aspect  I will review the other aspects 
alleging poor complaint  handling, poor responses and upsetting email contents.
So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
I have read all the emails between the parties received from both Mr N and Nextcredit, and I have 
listened to a recorded call dated 11 July 2017 between Mr N and a Nextcredit  representative. I have 
explained to Mr N by email that a call in late August 2017 was not one made  with Nextcredit  and so it 
is not being  considered by me. 
Mr Ns concerns about Nextcredits approach
I have compiled a careful chronology in order  to understand the correspondence  lines between the 
parties. I have  not reproduced that here as it is too long. 
The first instalment for the approved loan was due on 30 June 2017 and Nextcredit emailed  Mr N to 
say that the payment had been declined  by Mr Ns bank.  Mr N asked for the instalment dates  to be 
put back.
The common  factor throughout for Mr N is that he has always said he would  pay the principal sum. 
However he has not paid anything towards the loan.
The common  factor throughout from Nextcredit is that it has reminded Mr N that he was able to repay 
at anytime and it would not refuse any payments. 
It is clear that the relationship  between  Mr N and Nextcredit has broken down  and did so at a 
relatively early stage. I have tried to identify when this may have been. By mid-August 2017 both 
parties were close  to an agreement to resolve how the loan could  be serviced by Mr N but then the 
opportunity was missed  and I explain here how that came  about. 
Ref: DRN84354104I think  that when Mr N had sent in his Income and Expenditure (I&E) details and after Nextcredit  had 
considered that, and then sent Mr N the email which  accused him of being  dishonest, this led to a 
downturn in the relationship.  And I think that could  have  been avoided.
Nextcredit knew Mr Ns credit record, it had refused him a loan and the first instalment payment  by Mr 
Ns card had been declined by the bank. This all took place in June 2017.  So I can see that Mr Ns 
request for assistance  with the repayments was against that background. 
I will make it clear that this decision does not address, nor does it need to address, the dishonest 
allegation as that is beyond my remit. I am considering this complaint and part of that relates  to the 
language used and approach  experienced  which Mr N says has caused him upset.
I have listened to the recorded call between Mr N and a Nextcredit  representative on 11 July 2017. Mr 
N describes the call to have  been threatening and intimidating. I do not think there  was any 
aggressiveness or intimidation by the representative. The representative was calm  and gave  
assistance. At one point  in the call both talked over each other and that was when Mr N had changed 
the reason for not being  able to repay  the loan.  At that stage the representative was keen  to know 
which of the two reasons  he had given  was the reason for not being able to repay. Mr N asked for the 
call to be ended and said he wanted all communication  by email.  The call ended politely  on both 
sides. 
And on that same  day by email Mr N offered the two repayments of just over £89 on 30 July 2017 and 
a similar  sum on 30 August 2017. This shows Mr N wished to repay  the original agreed sum and was 
making such offers. The contentious points  arose in relation to the additional  interest due to the 
proposed extended repayment period.
After the call Nextcredit sent Mr N an I&E form (the one to which  I have referred  already)  and asked 
him for a repayment proposal  and a copy bank statement and copy  car repair  invoice. It asked  for the 
invoice because he had told Nextcredit that was the original reason he was not able to pay. It includes 
this paragraph: 
Where a customer is experiencing financial  difficulty, Nextcredit may consider freezing, or 
waiving, interest. However, this very much  depends on the individual circumstances  as we 
consider each case on its own merits. 
Mr N completed  the I&E and sent it back to Nextcredit as soon as he received it which I consider  
shows a willingness to engage. Nextcredit acknowledged his call and an email as being a complaint 
and that it would carry out the investigation and get back to him within four weeks. This is in line with 
the complaints  procedures we would expect to see  usually its eight weeks - and Nextcredit replied 
with its first FRL dated 8 August 2017 which I consider to have been a swift response.  I have 
summarised it in the background section  to this decision. 
By 9 August  2017 the outstanding balance was just over £208. Mr N claimed irresponsible lending 
which was repeated  on 16 August 2017 when Mr N also asked for all interest to be cancelled and 
offered £25 a month repayment. 
I do not think  it was unreasonable that Nextcredit needed to have some explanation about  what  the 
reason for the delay to pay was and how Mr N was going to be able to repay the loan. But I do think  
that to refer to his actions as dishonest  in the email of 18 August  2017 may have been too extreme. 
And that is because it was early in the relationship  when Mr N sent in his I&E (11 July 2017)  and 
Nextcredit needed to consider forbearance and treat Mr N with due consideration. 
Mr Ns reply does demonstrate that he was upset  by that. I make no finding on the manner in which 
Mr N expressed  this sentiment. 
Ref: DRN84354105The irresponsible lending complaint was acknowledged  and under the complaint handling  rules 
Nextcredit had a time limit of eight weeks to respond.  So the fact that it took until 4 October  2017 for 
the second FRL to be sent (summarised above) is not something  I would be concerned to see. And 
during that time Nextcredit kept Mr N updated, giving him reasons why it had not responded and how 
long it would take to finish its investigation. The FRL on 4 October  2017 was rational and reasonable. 
It included a reduced  interest sum.
Mr N responded  to this FRL by agreeing  to pay £222 by payments  of £25 from 1 November 2017. 
Then Mr N missed the first payment on 1 November  2017 and subsequently asked for the payment 
dates to be put back.  Nextcredit warned Mr N that the outstanding sum would go to a third party  
collections agency and on 6 December 2017 that agent was instructed.
The call, and emails in number and tone were  all satisfactory save  for that one email  in August 2017 
where there is reference  to dishonesty.  I do not think that it was necessary  or helpful to refer to an 
element of dishonesty. Nextcredit had background information about Mr N from his application, its 
credit search,  a record of the Loan 1 refusal and the card payment  decline on 30 June 2017.  I think  
that if it had considered all of this then it may have thought  that there was a possibility he was in 
financial difficulties. 
So I would have expected a more positive  and a more  sympathetic  approach than that shown in 18 
August 2017  email. I do think that the 4 October 2017  FRL was more positive and sympathetic and 
reached resolution and one to which Mr N agreed including the repayment plan.
Mr N has agreed  to repay the £222 twice  since the loan was approved: once after the FRL in 
October 2017 and more recently after our adjudicator gave  her opinion which  Mr N accepted.  So 
I recommend that Nextcredits  agent, which  I have been told holds the debt, and Mr N agree a 
mutually beneficial repayment arrangement.
credit file entries 
I have not seen any copies  of the credit file entries in 2017 or since then. If Mr N wishes to send that 
to me he has the two week period now in which to send  me a copy. 
But at the moment I am not planning to recommend any amendments are made  to Mr Ns credit  file. 
This complaint is against  Nextcredit and as the debt currently  is owned  by a third party then any 
concern there would have to be a separate complaint against another  party.
Nextcredit had an obligation  to report accurately  to its credit bureau agencies. So I do not think that 
Nextcredit has done anything wrong  when it reported originally the defaulted loan and the late 
payments. 
For the time period that the matter was at this service  I have not seen anything to show me that Mr N 
and the third party  had agreed that interest be suspended and that his credit file would be unaffected.  
After our adjudicator  had given her opinion  that she was not upholding Mr Ns complaint in relation to 
the loan then he agreed with that. And at that stage I see no reason  for Mr N to have decided not to 
repay the sum due - £222. 
What I am going  to ask Nextcredit  to do
I do recommend  that Mr N is compensated for the trouble and upset caused by the email I have 
referred to above, and the language used in it. I think that this can be satisfactorily done by Nextcredit 
writing a letter  of apology to Mr N in relation to the language used and the lack of forbearance shown  
by that one email dated 18 August 2017 email.  
end of extract
Ref: DRN8435410