K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time as Abbey National) 
mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out by Ms M in 1991. Ms M 
says the policy was taken out in a meeting.
Ms M says she was told she could have  the mortgage is she also took out MPPI. She also 
says the policy was not suitable because of the sick pay she received from her employer.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
I have decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Here are my reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Ms M was given a choice to have  the MPPI policy.  
This has been a difficult issue for me to consider as I havent been able to see all of the 
sales documentation that would have been  used at the time of sale. Although  this is 
understandable due to the many  years that have passed since the date of sale.  
I have though considered what I know of sales that happened at that time and also read 
Ms Ms recollections.  Having  done this, I cant be sure what was discussed between    
Ms M and Santander during the meeting. Its completely understandable that Ms Ms 
recollections are not detailed and as I have already said the sale took place many  years 
ago. And because of this and considering what I know of sales  carried out by Santander 
at that time, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say Santander 
didnt explain that MPPI was an optional feature in the meeting. I havent,  on this 
occasion, seen  enough evidence to be able to safely draw that conclusion.
In addition, Ms M took out her mortgage  in 1989 several months before  she applied  for 
MPPI. So although I do have regard for what Ms M has said, she would have  already  
had her mortgage in place  for a while before she then went  ahead and arranged  an 
MPPI policy. So I think Ms M was aware  the MPPI policy  was optional  and she chose it.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Ms M or not 
during the sale.  If it did, it would  have had an additional responsibility to ensure the policy 
was suitable for her. Taking into consideration what the parties have  said, and what I 
know of Santander  sales during  this time,  I think advice was given.
Ref: DRN81240252And based on the information Ive seen,  I think the policy  was suitable for Ms M. I say 
this after considering Ms Ms circumstances at the time of sale. Because, although  Ms M 
says she had sick pay (between  6 and 12 months) she could have relied upon, the MPPI 
policy would have  paid out in addition to her means. Having the policy  in place would  
mean Ms M could  use any provisions she may have had to cover other expenses. I dont  
think her means are sufficient  for me reasonably to say that she wouldnt have had at 
least some  use for the policy.  
Ms M was also not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits 
such as, for example,  those that affect  self employed people or policy  holders with pre-
existing medical conditions. It is unlikely Ms M needed better advice or information about  
the policys exclusions and limitations and if she had received clear  information on these 
terms I dont think it would have  put her off.
 
Finally, I am not sure if Santander  gave  Ms M clear information about  the costs  of the 
policy, but even  if it did, I dont think Ms M would have done  anything differently for the 
same reasons as I have  already  given. Ive also seen nothing  to suggest it was 
unaffordable.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided 
about this sale and I know it will be a disappointment for Ms M, but based on what  I have, I 
do not think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8124025