K820x#14complaint
Mr Z has complained that he was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
when he took out a credit card with HSBC  Bank  Plc (HSBC) in 1996.
background
Mr Z took out a credit card in 1996   at the same time he took out a PPI policy.  The PPI cost 
£0.71 per £100  of his outstanding balance. It paid out 10% of his monthly balance if he 
wasnt able to work due to sickness, accident or unemployment for up to 12 months.  It also 
had life cover that paid off the total balance. The credit card was cancelled in 2005.
Mr Z has said PPI was added without his agreement.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr Z disagreed and asked for the complaint to 
be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Zs case.
Having done so, I dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to say the policy  was 
mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
The sale took place  in 1996  and HSBC doesnt have a copy of Mr Zs original application 
form. Im not surprised by that as the sale took place some time ago and theres no 
requirement for HSBC  to keep records indefinitely. HSBC hasnt been  able to say how it sold 
Mr Z the card and PPI and Mr Z doesnt  recall  either, so its difficult  to know precisely what  
happened.
In the form that Mr Z filled in when he complained to our service, he said PPI was attached 
without his knowledge and there was no discussion of attaching PPI to the card. But in 
response to our adjudicators view he said something different. There  he said he fully 
understood what was being sold, but he specifically refused the option of PPI. So I dont 
think Mr Zs recollections are consistent about what happened. Im not surprised by that as 
the sale took place over twenty years ago and memories naturally fade with time, but it does 
mean I dont think I can place much weight  on Mr Zs recollections. 
Mr Z said PPI was added  without his knowledge. But from what I know about how PPI was 
charged, it would  have  been set out as a separate charge on his credit card statements. And 
I cant see Mr Z ever complained about  PPI during the time he had the card, which  I would 
have expected him to do if he was being  charged for something he didnt want. On balance, I 
dont have enough evidence for me to conclude PPI wasnt presented as an optional  product 
to Mr Z and that he didnt  chose to take it out.
HSBC doesnt  know whether  or not it gave Mr Z a recommendation to take out PPI and he 
didnt think he was given  a recommendation. I dont think it makes a difference in this 
complaint whether advice was given by HSBC. If advice was given, HSBC  had to look at 
Ref: DRN87097992whether the PPI policy was suitable  for Mr Zs needs. Ive looked at his circumstances  at the 
time and I can see that he was eligible  for the policy and its unlikely Mr Z would have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. I think  that the policy was 
competitively priced compared to other policies that were available  at the time and theres  
nothing about  his circumstances which suggests  it wasnt affordable. The policy would have 
paid out on top of any sick pay he might  have had and potentially for longer. And Mr Z has 
said he didnt have  any savings, so I dont think hed have found it easy to make his 
repayments if he was out of work.  So I think that Mr Z had a need for the cover and the 
policy was suitable  for him.
Whether or not advice was given, HSBC  needed to give Mr Z enough information so he 
could decide for himself  if PPI was right for him. Im not sure that Mr Z was given all of the 
information about the PPI policy at the time it was taken out. But I think he chose to take out 
the policy so it appears that he wanted  this type of cover.  The policy  was suitable for him 
and I dont think theres anything in the information he didnt have that would have put him 
off taking it out. So I think that he would have taken it if he had all of the right information and 
I dont think that Mr Z is worse off as a result of anything that HSBC did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint against HSBC  UK Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8709799