K821x#15complaint
Mrs J says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her and the late Mr J a monthly premium 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.  
background
Mrs J and the late Mr J took out a mortgage  with the Nationwide  in 1987.  PPI was added  in 
1992. Neither party are sure now how the MPPI was sold. The policy  and mortgage ended  in 
1999.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
 I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mr and Mrs J and Nationwide  at the time 
the policy  was sold. But, it seems likely the policy was taken out some  time after the 
mortgage, so I think it likely  that they wouldve  understood  they didnt have to have 
MPPI to get the mortgage. Mrs J said they were told MPPI was compulsory,  but Ive 
not seen anything that leads me to conclude that more likely than not they were  given  
misleading information about  this. I think it more likely that they opted to take the 
insurance, knowing they didnt have to have it. Its understandable that Mrs J may not 
remember it this way now, given  how much time has passed. 
 I need to consider  next whether Nationwide provided advice to Mrs and Mr J when  the 
MPPI was sold. If it did, it wouldve had an additional responsibility to ensure the policy 
was suitable for them.  Taking  into account  what Ive seen, and what  we know of 
Nationwides sales during this time from dealing with other cases, I dont think  advice 
was given. But, even so, Nationwide still had to ensure that it provided Mrs and Mr J 
with advice in a clear,  fair and not misleading way, so that they could make  an 
informed decision  on whether they wanted the policy.  
 Based  on the information Ive seen, I think the policy seemed appropriate  for 
Mrs and Mr J at the time of sale. I cant see that if they had been given better  or clearer  
information they wouldve made  a different decision  and not taken out the policy.  I say 
this because:
oMrs and Mr J were eligible to take out the policy.
oMr J wouldve got statutory sick pay only if he wasnt well enough  to work. 
Mrs J said she wouldve got 12 months  worth of full sick pay and 12 months  
worth of half sick pay from her local authority employer.  Mrs J said she was in 
a secure job, and not at risk of redundancy. The policy wouldve paid out the 
Ref: DRN88677842full amount of their mortgage repayment  for up to 24 months per successful 
claim for accident, sickness or unemployment on top of any work benefits. It 
wouldve covered  them for longer than Mrs Js work benefits, and allowed 
them to use any work related  benefits  to meet their other household  
expenses. 
oThey said they didnt  have any savings, so I cant see that their other 
resources made  the policy inappropriate for them. I think MPPI couldve 
provided them with a useful benefit  to safeguard their home.
oI cant see that Mrs or Mr J were affected  by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations on cover. So I dont think having better  information about these 
things wouldve changed their decision,  as they could benefit  from everything 
the policy offered.
oThe policy appeared affordable at £11.85 per month, and they couldve 
cancelled it at any time without losing out financially. It didnt carry interest.
So, I cant see that Mrs and the late Mr J have lost out because of anything  that Nationwide  
couldve done better. I dont find that this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J on her own 
account and on behalf of the estate of the late Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 
9 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8867784