K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under his central  heating  insurance policy 
with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
Mr H made  a claim under his policy with British Gas on 23 January 2019, as there was a 
leak from his water cylinder. British Gas sent one of its contractors out the same day. He 
said a new pressure relief  valve was needed  and hed be back  within two days  once  he was 
able to get the part. 
The contractor didnt  come back and Mr H had to chase up the repair on 28 January, 20 
February and 28 February 2019. In the February calls, Mr H said the leak had been left 
ongoing since he reported it and had now caused  the carpet and floorboards to become 
sodden and water  was going  through  the ceiling to the room  below. 
During his second  visit the engineer found that the replacement valve wasn't needed as the 
source of the leak was a split in the cylinder  instead.  It took two more weeks  to obtain a new 
cylinder. There were apparently attendances  on 20 and 22 February  2019  but the 
contractors couldnt  do anything, as they didnt have  the replacement cylinder. There was 
then a failed attendance on 28 February 2019  and the cylinder was finally replaced on 1 
March 2019. 
Mr H is very unhappy with the handling  of the claim.  Mr H says he was eventually told that 
the leaking water cylinder had been incorrectly installed by British Gas in 2012, and the 
expansion vessel was also set too low, and this was the cause of the leak. He thinks  the 
cylinder might have been leaking  intermittently since it was installed. Mr H wants  British  Gas 
to repair  the water damage to his home, as its delay in replacing the cylinder meant the leak 
continued for much longer than necessary. 
British Gas says the valve was out of stock  and so its contractors had to wait two weeks for 
this and then the cylinder also took two weeks, as it was a specific  size. It says it cant  be 
responsible for parts being unavailable and the policy doesnt provide any deadlines  or 
specific dates for parts  to be available, so is not responsible for the time taken waiting for 
parts. It was called out to a leak that was not its fault and which had already caused damage 
to the property. Water was already reported as coming through the ceiling and something 
cannot be damaged more  than once.  Mr H should claim under his home  insurance  for the 
damage caused by the leak, as this was the result of the original leak and not its 
responsibility. British Gas did, however, offer £100  compensation  for the delay and 
misdiagnosis.
British Gas also says that while it accepts that the cylinder was not installed correctly in 2012 
and one of its contractors said this was the cause of the leak,  this has been  reviewed by 
senior managers and they dont agree it was the cause  of the leak.  British  Gas says that any 
leaks caused by the poor installation would've  happened sooner and Mr H would have 
noticed pressure  problems as a result. British  Gas says the cylinder split because  of general 
wear and tear and degradation over time,  not because of the poor installation.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt think British Gas had done  
enough to prevent further damage to Mr Hs property. It had misdiagnosed the cause of the 
Ref: DRN82372372leak and there were considerable delays in repairing  the problem, which she thought would  
have caused further damage, as well as a lack of communication with Mr H. 
The investigator also concluded that British  Gas had not done enough to establish that it was 
not responsible  for the original leak. She said its records show British Gas attended  a couple 
of times since 2012 to attend to pressure  issues with the cylinder and boiler. She wasnt 
satisfied that British Gas had done  any investigation into whether there were previous  leaks 
or problems  performance  as a result of the poor installation,  and it was not enough  to say 
that there  would have  been noticeable  leaks earlier than 2019. 
The investigator recommended  the British Gas pay Mr H £200 compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience  caused and either carry out the repairs to his property, or pay the cost of 
the repairs. She said this should include replacing  the flooring under the cylinder, to ensure 
there are no gaps or residue moisture.
 
Mr H accepts the investigators assessment (except he says he does not want British Gas 
carrying out the work required) but British  Gas does not. As the investigator was unable to 
resolve this complaint, it has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It took from 23 January  2019 to 1 March  2019 to repair a leaking cylinder. The leak was 
ongoing all this time. British Gas says Mr H signed  a declaration  at the end of February 2019 
that he didnt want it to remove the old leaking cylinder (as it would mean  hed be without hot 
water) pending  replacement but this does not absolve British Gas of all responsibility for any 
damage caused by the ongoing  leak (which by then had already been  continuing for a month 
anyway). 
I have seen no reasonable  explanation why it took so long to properly diagnose the problem  
and replace the cylinder. There was a two week wait for the pressure relief valve.  British Gas 
says this was out of stock and so this delay was out of its control.  However, Ive seen no 
evidence that British Gas tried to get this from any other stockists and of course it was not 
needed, as the problem  had been misdiagnosed. So this delay was avoidable. 
It then took another two weeks to get the replacement cylinder, once British Gas realised  this 
was what was needed. The new cylinder apparently had to be made, though again Ive seen 
no convincing evidence  of this. But, even if I accept this two week wait was unavoidable,  
overall it took just over five weeks to resolve the leak.  And then the replacement cylinder 
was positioned  on top of damaged flooring. 
There may have been damage already caused  by the initial  leak but I consider it would have 
become worse given  how long it was left ongoing  and it seems the leak became worse as 
time went on. I say this because in the first call Mr H made to report  the claim, he says water 
was coming through the ceiling not lots and lots but some water  coming  through the ceiling.  
Then in a call on 20 February  2019  to chase up the repairs he says the carpet in the cylinder 
cupboard is sodden. He said the leak had come  through the ceiling a bit when he first 
reported the claim but then stopped and was intermittent for a while.  
Ref: DRN82372373In addition, the engineer that replaced the cylinder  said it had been installed incorrectly 
during a previous claim in 2012 and this is the reason why it had failed and was leaking in 
January 2019.  British  Gas now disputes what its own engineer  said about this and says that 
any problems resulting from the poor installation of the cylinder would have been apparent 
much sooner. I dont  accept this as a blanket  statement.
The cylinder was installed at an angle and with the pressure relief valve too low and also at 
an angle. It seems to me this could create stress  on the cylinder that over time has caused  it 
to split. The cylinder was seven years  old at the time of this claim and it is unusual to split 
under normal use in this way without something  to precipitate that. 
I also note that British Gass records show that the pressure relief  valve  on the cylinder was 
replaced in 2014,  and there was an attendance for a pressure issue with the boiler,  which 
would indicate  the kind of issues  that British Gas says would have been apparent if the leak 
had happened  earlier. 
It is difficult for me to be sure about  the cause of the initial leak but I think overall there is 
sufficient evidence that it was caused  by the installation. I am more  persuaded by the word 
of the expert engineer that attended and saw the cylinder in situ than managers  at British 
Gas. 
But, even  if I disregard the installation of the cylinder  as the possible cause  of the leak, as 
stated above,  the leak was left continuing unabated for over a month, which  I consider to be 
avoidable. This will have  inevitably  made  the water damage worse that when it was first 
reported on 23 January 2019. 
I therefore agree that British Gas should pay for the repairs to the damage caused  by the 
leak. It is entirely unsatisfactory  for British  Gas to push Mr H to make a separate insurance 
claim under another policy for this. Mr H does not want  British  Gass contractors to carry out 
the work  required,  which is understandable.  He has not however provided  any quotes for this 
work from his own contractors. The parties will therefore have to agree any quote before 
reimbursement can be made.  For the avoidance  of doubt, I consider the quote should 
include repairing the water damage  to the ceiling below the cylinder, repairing the water 
damaged flooring under the cylinder and positioning the cylinder  properly on a level platform  
or base.   It would seem sensible  for Mr H to obtain  at least two quotes, which can then be 
discussed with British Gas.
I also agree  that the £100 offered by British Gas does not adequately reflect the trouble  
caused to Mr H, including the delays; the additional avoidable appointments; one missed  
appointment; having to chase up British Gas and having to deal with the damage to his 
property.  
Mr H had asked for £200 and the cost of the repairs to his property. I consider that £400 is 
more appropriate.  
Ref: DRN82372374my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to do the 
following:
pay Mr H the sum of £400  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its handling  of this matter,  including the delays  in attending  to the leaking cylinder  
and the fact he has to now repair the damage  to his property; and 
reimburse the costs  of repairing the flooring and ceiling below the cylinder, upon 
production of suitable invoices and agreement between the parties  on the costs to be 
reimbursed beforehand.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8237237