K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001. Mr R 
says that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold him and his late wife PPI. 
background 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why Mr R cant  remember  this. BoS 
has provided copies  of the paperwork  which show that Mr and Mrs R signed 
separately to take the PPI. And the documents made it clear the policy was optional.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time I think  that it 
was. Only Mr R was covered by the PPI and he seems to have had a need for the 
cover. Mr R says he had some sick pay, although he hasnt told us what  it was. But 
the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to this and for up to two years at a time, which 
I think wouldve been much longer than his contractual sick pay wouldve  lasted.  Mr 
R was also possibly  entitled to some redundancy  pay too, but, again, the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to two years at a time if he was made redundant, leaving any 
redundancy pay to cover other  uninsured expenses.
Mr and Mrs R didnt have any savings. So I think the PPI offered  a useful benefit.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest it was unaffordable  for them.  So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put them off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said, but these points dont change my decision. This 
means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr and 
Mrs R paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr R back some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
If it hasnt  already, BoS will make arrangements to pay Mr R now Ive issued my final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN82395472my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8239547