K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank PLC has administered both his credit  card 
account and his bank account.  He is in now in financial  difficulty and feels it hasnt done 
enough to help him. 
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 4 November  2019. A copy of this is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision. In it I set out the background to this complaint and 
I explained why I didnt think it should be upheld.
Lloyds responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision and has no further 
comments to make.  
Mr P hasnt responded to my provisional decision,  and our investigator hasnt been able to 
successfully contact him for comment.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any further  comments or evidence  from the parties, 
Ive reached the same  conclusions that I did in my provisional decision. Whilst I sympathise 
with Mr Ps situation, Im still of the opinion that Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably  here.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82284392copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P is unhappy  with the way Lloyds Bank PLC has administered both his credit card account and his 
bank account. He is in now in financial difficulty and feels it hasnt  done enough  to help him. 
background
In 2018 Mr P complained  to Lloyds about  the way it had handled his credit card account  and his bank 
account overdraft. He said that the high interest rates he was being charged had contributed to him 
falling into financial difficulty. And he didnt  think the bank had done enough to help him since he 
began to struggle to make payments. To put thing right, he asked Lloyds to refund the fees and 
charges that it had applied to both accounts.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It felt it had treated  him fairly since hed told it he was in 
financial difficulty. So Mr P brought his complaint  to our service.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened since January 2015 when they felt Mr Ps financial  
difficulties had started. They  noted Lloyds had advised Mr P to contact a debt counselling company. 
And that it had frozen  interest payments and temporarily suspended charges, as well as agreeing 
repayment plans on his accounts.  The investigator felt this was an appropriate response to Mr Ps 
situation. And didnt think it would be reasonable to require Lloyds to do anything further.
Mr P disagrees with this view, so the case has been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know Mr P will be disappointed, but based on what Ive seen so far I 
dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Ive looked at the interest and charges  Lloyds applied to Mr Ps accounts  since May 2012,  which is 
the date I previously advised  both parties our service was able to work  to. Lloyds has confirmed these  
were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the accounts. And I havent seen anything  to 
suggest they were calculated incorrectly. So whilst I appreciate Mr P feels the interest rates he was 
charged were high, I cant say that Lloyds  acted unfairly  in this respect. Lloyds is entitled to make a 
commercial decision about the interest rates it wishes  to offer its customers.
Im sorry to hear Mr P has experienced financial  difficulties over recent years. I understand  he doesnt 
feel that Lloyds has done enough to help him with his situation.  And he thinks it ought  to refund the 
fees and charges it applied to his accounts in light of this fact. But Lloyds argues  that it took 
appropriate measures  to assist him after he made it aware he was having financial difficulties. 
Mr P feels Lloyds ought to have helped him sooner. So before I consider  whether the actions Lloyds 
took at this time were  appropriate, Ive thought about  whether it ought reasonably to have  assisted 
him earlier than it did. But looking at the evidence  provided, I dont think  it should have.  Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, looking at his credit card account,  I can see that although Mr P was near to his credit limit 
much of the time, he was making  regular payments into the account to maintain it up until November 
2015. And these payments were generally for more than the minimum required.  There  were  some 
periods where Mr P was using  his credit card to make cash advances. And there were some 
instances of late payments and the credit limit being exceeded. But following  these  he would 
generally make larger payments to bring  the account back within its credit limit. 
Ref: DRN82284393Looking at his bank statements, although Mr P was overdrawn much of the time,  he was receiving 
regular credits,  and clearing  his overdraft most months up until April 2015.  After this, although  the 
account remained overdrawn occasional smaller credits and transfers were bringing the balance back 
within the overdraft limit. And again, it looks like he was able to maintain this until November 2015. 
After this the account  remained overdrawn,  and no credits or payments were  received after April 
2016.
I can see from its records that Lloyds contacted Mr P at various times in early 2015. And each time he 
gave it assurances, explaining his circumstances, clarifying why hed missed payments or his account  
was overdrawn, and saying  that he would  make payments to sort things out. So, on balance,  I think  
its likely  he would have  given Lloyds the same  assurances  had it contacted  him sooner.
Mr P has said he feels it was unfair that in April 2015 he was forced to take out a loan for £3,000 from 
another provider to cover  his living  expenses whilst he was out of employment. I do sympathise with 
him. But given the conversations hed had with it and the fact he was still maintaining his accounts at 
this time,  I think its reasonable Lloyds  werent aware  he was struggling at this point. 
The evidence  Ive seen  shows that Mr P first suggested he needed some help from Lloyds in June 
2015. Lloyds agreed to amend the date his monthly credit card payments were due. And later that 
month it provided him with some short-term help by waiving interest and charges on his credit card for 
2 months. 
I can see from the notes Lloyds has provided that in August 2015 it discussed this arrangement with 
Mr P, and the fact there wasnt currently any similar  arrangement set up for his overdraft. Mr P told it 
that hed been out of employment for 3 months but was now due to get paid this month and would  be 
able to get both of his accounts in order.  Given this assurance I dont think its unreasonable  that 
Lloyds didnt put any further measures  in place to help him at this time. 
Lloyds has said that looking  at his statements  now it appears  Mr P began  experiencing  more serious 
financial difficulties in late 2015. And I agree  thats the point at which it looks like he could no longer 
sustain his accounts.  This was several  months before  Mr P spoke to Lloyds again to ask for help in 
March 2016. But I dont think it would be fair for me to say Lloyds should have noticed  this straight 
away. It would have  taken a few months for this pattern  of non-payment to become  clear  to the bank. 
After Mr P made Lloyds  aware he was experiencing financial difficulties in March  2016 it set up a 
repayment plan for his credit card, and stopped applying interest  and charges  for an initial  6 months.  
It also applied a 3 month interest freeze on his bank account  overdraft, and temporarily increased  his 
overdraft limit to £2110, meaning his balance was now within it. 
Lloyds has evidenced  that Mr P contacted it in July 2016 to say that he was now in a better  financial 
position. He told it he would make payments to his credit  card account,  and would  continue to do so 
even after it was up to date and within its credit limit. So his account resumed  back to its standard 
way of operating. However, Mr P didnt  make any further payments to his credit card account . So 
Lloyds passed the account  to its recoveries  team in November 2016, in line with its usual process.
Lloyds says that it also put a total of 6 repayment plans  in place  to try and assist  Mr P with his 
overdraft before his bank  account defaulted  and passed  to its recoveries  team. 
Mr P has explained that he couldnt keep  up with these payment  plans because  he had other debts to 
pay. And I understand this would have been very difficult him. But this doesnt mean  that by putting  
these measures  in place Lloyds didnt  make a fair and reasonable attempt  to help him. 
When a customer is experiencing financial  difficulty, a lender is expected to act positively and 
sympathetically towards them. There were no set measures Lloyds had to take here. But it should  
have taken steps  to understand  Mr Ps situation and assist him appropriately.  And I think its 
demonstrated that it did this here.  I gather  Mr P wanted Lloyds to refund earlier  charges and interest  
applied to his accounts. But it isnt obliged  to do this. And I wouldnt reasonably expect it to.
Ref: DRN82284394Mr P brought  his complaint  to our service after Lloyds  gave him refunds totalling  £1,093.05 in respect 
of his credit card, and £724.63 for his bank  account. Lloyds has explained  that these  refunds werent 
issued in response  to this complaint. They  were identified  as part of a review of accounts that were 
passed to its collections  team. And I can see these amounts have been used to reduce Mr Ps debt  
which is something Lloyds were entitled to do.
I understand Mr P feels he should  have been given  larger  refunds. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest Lloyds should have refunded him more.  And these refunds dont change  my view that Lloyds 
responded to Mr Ps financial situation fairly and reasonably here. So whilst I appreciate Mr P will be 
disappointed by my decision, Im not intending  to ask Lloyds do any anything further.
If he hasnt  done so already,  Mr P may want  to consider  contacting a charity or organisation who 
could assist  him with some independent financial advice. Our investigator can provide Mr P with 
contact details  for some  of these organisations  if he would  like them.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8228439