K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) profited  from a currency  payment that 
couldnt be completed.
background 
Mr K banks with Metro and on 25 April 2018 he arranged a €15,000 payment to a recipient in 
Spain. Metro debited  £13,525.70  from Mr Ks account and sent €15,000. The payment 
couldnt be completed because the recipients account was blocked. The €15,000 was 
returned to Metro and converted back into pounds. £12,829.28  was credited to Mr Ks Metro  
account on 30 April.  
Mr K complained to Metro  because hed lost £692.42 and wanted  Metro to refund  him. Metro 
didnt uphold  his complaint because  it said the problem was caused by the block  on the 
beneficiary account. Mr K wasnt satisfied  with Metros response  and referred  his complaint 
to our service. 
Metro still says that Mr Ks loss wasnt due to its error but explained that it applied a spread 
to the rate that was used.  While this is a standard banking practice, Metro offered  to refund 
£385.41 of the spread as a gesture  of goodwill. This was the profit it made on the returned 
funds. 
Our investigator thought this was fair. Mr K wasnt  happy with the offer and thinks  that Metro  
should have contacted him for instructions before  converting the money back  into pounds. 
He wants Metro to refund  all the money  he lost. Mr K asked for a final decision so the 
complaint was referred to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its standard practice  for banks to convert  customers foreign currency payments at their own 
exchange rates. The banks rate usually  includes  a small  profit   called  a spread  to cover  
its costs and risks from the transaction.  In this case,  Metro would have charged a spread  on 
the outgoing payment from Mr Ks account,  because it exchanged the money from pounds to 
euros, and on the incoming payment  when  the funds were  sent back by the receiving bank, 
because they were received in euros and had to be exchanged  to pounds.  
Its clear that the payment  was rejected  after it reached the recipients bank, so Im satisfied 
that Metro carried  out Mr Ks instructions. For that reason, I dont find that Mr Ks losses 
were caused  by a Metro  error. In the circumstances, I think  Metros  offer to refund the 
spread on the returned payment is more than fair. 
Mr K argues  that Metro should  have contacted  him for instructions before converting  the 
money back to pounds.  But I think  Metro acted reasonably by returning  the money to the 
original bank account when the payment couldnt be completed and, as that account was 
held in pounds, it had to convert the currency from euros again. But Metros offer to refund 
the spread on the returned  funds  means Mr K wouldnt  have lost out from the money being 
converted back into pounds. 
Ref: DRN86065112As Metro has offered  to refund the spread from the returned payment, the only remaining 
cost to Mr K here is the spread paid on the outgoing payment. But Mr K would have been 
told the amount  that was going  to be debited from his account  in pounds when he instructed 
it, so I think its reasonable to assume he was satisfied with Metros rate  which included the 
relevant spread - at the time. Mr Ks understandably unhappy that the payment was rejected 
but because Im satisfied  that Metro carried out his instructions to the best of its ability, I 
dont find that it should  refund this amount too. 
I understand why Mr Ks unhappy with the situation  but for the reasons Ive explained Im not 
going to ask Metro to do anything more here. I know he will be disappointed by my decision 
but I hope Ive explained  my reasoning. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I do not uphold  Mr Ks complaint. I order Metro Bank PLC to pay 
£385.41 to Mr K as compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8606511