K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about refurbishment charges when she terminated  her agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS). Shes also unhappy that she was 
encouraged to enter into a hire purchase  agreement and says she was given misleading 
information about the residual value of her car.
background
In March 2015 Mrs F was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS.
At the end of the agreement Mrs F discovered that the residual value of the car was less 
than she had been led to expect by the supplying dealer. Mrs F decided  to voluntary 
terminate the agreement and pay the shortfall.
Following inspection and collection of the car VWFS asked Mrs F to pay end of contract  
charges for refurbishment.
Mrs F wasnt happy about the charges.  She says that the car was in good condition with low 
mileage. She also says that VWFS  didnt carry out any of the refurbishment  works which  she 
has been asked  to pay for and the car was sent straight to auction. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that the agreement hadnt been  mis- 
sold because Mrs F was aware of the type of agreement she had entered  into. The 
adjudicator also said that the end of contract charges were fair because the damage to the 
car exceeded fair wear and tear in accordance with the industry guidelines. 
Mrs F didnt  agree. She said the dealership misled her about the residual  value of the car. 
She also said that the dealership told her that it had miscalculated the agreement  which  was 
why it offered to contribute £2000 towards  a new car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale of finance agreement
Ive considered what Mrs F has said about being  misled by the dealership about what  the car 
would be worth at the end of the agreement. Mrs F says that she was induced to enter  the 
agreement because of what  the dealership said.
Theres no contemporaneous  evidence of what was discussed when Mrs F visited the 
dealership. I wasnt present at the time so I cant be certain of what  was said.  I have no 
reason to doubt that Mrs F would have  discussed different types of agreement with the 
dealership but theres no evidence on which I can safely conclude that the dealership gave  
incorrect or misleading information to Mrs F. Mrs F has signed several documents  agreeing 
to the hire purchase  agreement and had the benefit of a cooling off period away  from the 
dealership during which time she could have  changed  her mind if she wasnt happy with the 
agreement. On balance, Im unable to say that the dealership  did anything wrong.
Ref: DRN87948562Mrs F has said that the dealership miscalculated the residual  value of the car and offered  her 
£2000 towards a new car because of this. I havent  seen any information to suggest that the 
residual value was miscalculated. Moreover its not unusual for dealerships to offer 
incentives from time to time. These incentives arent designed  to compensate  consumers for 
any depreciation in value  but are offered to attract consumers to a new finance agreement.
I appreciate that Mrs F would have been disappointed to discover that her car was worth 
less than she had hoped.  However, based  on the available information Im unable to say that 
the hire purchase  agreement was mis-sold.
End of contract charges
Ive looked at the hire purchase  agreement. This says that the car should be returned in 
good condition  and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
often used by finance companies  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies  damage which  VWFS says is more  than 
fair wear and tear and is therefore chargeable. There are also photos  of the damage.  The 
photographs show visible  damage  and Im satisfied  that the damage goes beyond fair wear  
and tear in accordance with the guidelines.  I agree with the adjudicator  that the photo of the 
damage to the rear bumper is unclear and that VWFS acted fairly in removing  this charge.
I understand the point which Mrs F has made  about the car having low mileage. But this 
doesnt of itself mitigate the loss in value caused  by the damage. Im unable to set off any 
retained value  as a result  of lower than average mileage against the cost of repairing 
damage or the diminution in value  of the car as a result of the damage.
Ive also noted  Mrs Fs concerns that the car was sold at auction without any repairs or 
refurbishment being carried out. Theres no legal  requirement on VWFS to carry out repairs 
prior to selling the car. The charges for damage  are designed to reflect  the loss in value in 
the car to VWFS when it is returned in a lesser condition than when it was supplied, fair wear  
and tear excluded.  I dont  have any information  about what  Mrs Fs car sold for at auction but 
its very likely that any damage exceeding  fair wear  and tear would  have had an effect  on the 
sale price.
For the reasons  Ive explained Im satisfied  that the end of agreement  charges are fair and I 
wont be asking VWFS to waive any further charges.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8794856