K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complaint about  how The National  Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance  Society 
Limited (NFU)  dealt  with a claim under their buildings insurance policy.  
background 
In 2013 Mr and Mrs B made a claim for escape  of water.  Part of their underfloor  heating had 
failed causing  a leak.  Mr  and Mrs B say they were told by NFU they should  wait for 50% of 
the system to fail and then it could be condemned and replaced. 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs B contacted NFU again  as the system had failed completely. A 
contractor was sent out to price the cost of a replacement  system and Mr and Mrs B said 
discussions were had at that time about a possible start date for the works. Sometime later 
NFU sent a surveyor out to consider the claim further. It was at that point Mr and Mrs B were 
told their claim  wouldnt be covered under their policy  as the system  had failed  due to its age 
and condition. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to NFU that theyd  been misled in 2013 and again in 2018, they 
were given the impression their claim had been  accepted and the underfloor heating would 
be replaced. They said theyd suffered  cold winters  in between as the system had slowly 
failed, theyd spent  a considerable sum on a log burner  and hadnt  redecorated  as it would 
be pointless if everything was to be taken up again. 
NFU said they wrote  to Mr and Mrs B in 2013  and confirmed  that while damage caused by 
any water  leak would be covered, fixing the pipes of the system wouldnt be. Because  of this 
it says Mr and Mrs B would have been  aware  in 2013 that the heating system wouldnt be 
replaced under the policy. It didnt agree it had misled Mr and Mrs B in 2018,  it said it was 
common practice to price up the cost of repairs so that matters could move forward  quickly  if 
a claim was approved.  It did recognise however that there were some delays in dealing  with 
the claim in 2018  so it offered Mr and Mrs B £150  compensation. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree 
so brought their complaint  to this service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. She thought NFU had acted reasonably  in declining 
the claim,  but she did think NFU actions had caused Mr and Mrs B to have the impression 
their claim would be successful. She recommended the compensation be increased to £250 
in total. NFU agreed to pay the additional  compensation but made a point of saying  they 
didnt agree theyd  ever told Mr and Mrs B the claim  would  be covered.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with the investigators  view and asked for an ombudsman  to 
review the complaint. They  said they dont remember  receiving the letter NFU says was sent 
in 2013 and they want their claim to be met. They reiterated the conditions theyd been living 
in over the years and made the point they wouldnt  have done this, unless theyd been told 
the heating system would be replaced. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, I will be upholding 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, but I wont be making any further award, Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN84987242Was it reasonable of NFU to decline the claim?
The terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy  say that while it will provide cover  for damage caused by 
water escaping. It wont provide cover  to fix the item (in this case the pipe)  that caused the 
water to escape, if it failed  due to wear and tear. It classes  this as an excluded risk. Most 
insurance policies  have a similar  term, so its isnt unusual. 
Ive looked at the letter NFU says it sent to Mr and Mrs B in 2013  and it does explain to them  
that repairs to the pipes  wouldnt  be covered. 
The NFUs diagnosis report  in 2018 says In our opinion, we feel that the underfloor heating 
pipes have failed  due to age. The system is approximately 19 years  old and some  of the 
rubber pipes had perished. The insured commented that since reporting the claim to insurers  
in February 2013  several more pipes had failed and he has then carried  out localised 
repairs.
The report  from its surveyor adds it is clear  the underfloor heating system has failed as a 
result of wear and tear, owing to the age and composition of the installation.
Mr and Mrs B have  also confirmed the system has been gradually  failing  over time.
Overall, I think NFUs  decision  to decline the claim for replacement of the underfloor  heating 
system is reasonable,  so I wont be asking it to do anything more here. 
Were there any avoidable delays?  
Mr and Mrs B contacted NFU in February, but due to severe weather conditions at the time 
and Mr and Mrs Bs other work commitments  it wasnt possible for NFU to attend  until April. 
While this was quite  a long time, I think it was unavoidable in the circumstances.  
However, from that point  on it seems  there  was some  delays  and Mr and Mrs B werent  kept 
up to date on what was happening which meant Mrs B kept having  to ask for updates. 
Mr and Mrs B werent told the claim  wouldnt  be covered until July. In the circumstances, I 
think a surveyor could  have been  sent out to establish the cause of the system failure earlier 
than they were. So, I do think there were some avoidable delays here.
Were Mr and Mrs B told the claim  would be covered?
Mr and Mrs B have  said they dont remember receiving the letter NFU says it sent in 2013  
which said the replacement of the pipes  in the heating system wouldnt be covered  under the 
policy. They  say they were verbally told by NFUs representative at that time to wait until 
50% of the system fails and then the insurance will condemn and replace it. Which is why 
they waited so long to come back to NFU. 
Having looked  at the letter I can see it was correctly addressed, I think  its more likely than 
not it was sent out to them. But I can understand why, if they relied  more  on what they were  
allegedly told, they may not recall  this now as it simply  supported what they thought  the 
claim wouldnt be covered (at that point). 
Ref: DRN84987243NFUs representative has now retired so he cant be questioned about what he told 
Mr and Mrs B at the time.  I think its likely some kind of conversation happened, and the 
impression Mr and Mrs B took away from that conversation,  rightly or wrongly, was that their 
claim could  be considered at a later time. However, Im also mindful that the same  
representative that had this conversation with Mr and Mrs B, recorded in the claim file at the 
time that wear and tear was the mostly likely cause of the damage.
Ive looked at the how the claim was dealt  with when Mr and Mrs B approached NFU in 
2018. NFU sent Mr and Mrs B an email which said As discussed I have appointed approved 
panel contractorsand they will be in touch shortly to arrange a site survey and advise 
on the replacement  of the under floor heating system. We can then discuss  a programme of 
works for the late Spring early Summer.
NFU have said they usually get repair quotes  early  in the process so a claim can progress 
more quickly as soon  as its accepted.  However, in the circumstances, based on what may 
have been said to them previously, I can understand how Mr and Mrs B could have 
interpreted this email  in a positive  way.
Overall, while  I dont  think Mr and Mrs B were told their claim for replacement of the 
underfloor heating system was covered. Its clear a misunderstanding developed  and NFU 
are partly responsible for that. 
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs B have  said they want their claim to be paid, however as Ive explained above 
this isnt something they have cover for under their policy. And, I dont think  ordering NFU to 
do this, because of the misunderstanding,  would be a fair or proportionate response.  
I do think Mr and Mrs B are due some compensation to reflect the trouble  and upset theyve 
been put to. And, to reflect the fact they could  have been told earlier in 2018  that their claim 
wasnt covered.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs B have  said they endured cold winters as the system 
failed and had to spend out for a log burner, but I think this is more likely than not something 
that would  have always happened.  I do accept however they could perhaps have made  
different decisions had the misunderstanding not happened.  
Taking everything into account  I think the £250 compensation suggested by the investigator 
is reasonable. Im not sure if NFU have already paid the £150  compensation it offered  
previously, if it has, it only needs  to make a further  payment  of £100 to Mr and Mrs B. 
 
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against The National Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance 
Society Limited and direct  it to pay Mr and Mrs B a total of £250  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020. 
Alison Gore
Ref: DRN84987244ombudsman
Ref: DRN8498724