K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) declined to help 
them to recover money they lost due to a scam.
background
Mr and Mrs H say in October  2015 they bought a holiday  membership  from a business that 
Ill call Business A, using  funds  from three  accounts, including  one they held with 
Nationwide. They say they were only able to make very limited use of the service provided 
by Business A and they say it ceased trading in November 2018.
Mr and Mrs H also say they sought the help of Nationwide to get their money back  and they 
asked it to raise a fraud case in relation to the payment. But Nationwide said its fraud policy  
didnt allow it to investigate any claim over 13 months old.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said as theyd 
received a benefit from the membership they bought from Business A, albeit an extremely  
small benefit, he wouldnt expect Nationwide to treat them as the victims  of a scam. And he 
said Business As account had been closed by the time Mr and Mrs H complained  about this 
matter. So, Nationwide  wouldnt  have been  able to get any funds back on their behalf,  in any 
event. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the investigators conclusions.  So, the matter has been 
referred to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
I see in October 2015, Mr and Mrs H made a payment of £3,500 to Business  A from their 
Nationwide account.  And I see they contacted Nationwide  in October 2018 to dispute  this 
payment. I also see Nationwide told Mr and Mrs H its fraud policy  didnt allow it to investigate  
any claim over 13 months old.
I understand Business A had ceased  trading and its bank account had been  closed before 
Mr and Mrs H raised  this matter with Nationwide. And I think  thats  significant  because it 
meant there  werent any steps  Nationwide could  have  reasonably  taken at that stage to help 
Mr and Mrs H to recover their money. 
Mr and Mrs H have clearly suffered loss as a result of the actions of Business A and Ive 
great sympathy for them. But they chose to make the payment to Business A and, in these 
circumstances, it wouldnt be fair for me to require Nationwide  to reimburse the money 
theyve lost or to take legal action to try to recover it on their behalf. 
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN83716162My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8371616