K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) decision to 
void his insurance  policy following  the write off of his car.
Background
Mr H called LV in February 2018  to make  a claim on his motor  insurance policy  following  a 
road traffic accident.  His car was written off and he was unhappy with the initial pre-accident 
value (PAV).  When he disputed the valuation, he made  LV aware of modifications on his 
car he felt increased its value.
LV decided to void Mr Hs insurance  as they werent  made  aware of the modifications when 
Mr H added this car to the policy. They  said Mr H mis-represented  the information he 
provided meaning they agreed to insure  a car that wouldnt have been approved using  their 
underwriting criteria. So, they explained they wouldnt cover the cost of the PAV and made  
the relevant fraud prevention agencies aware. But, they sent Mr H the salvage cost of his car 
and a refund  of premiums.
Mr H wasnt happy with LVs decision.  He said when  he changed  his car on the policy, he 
was asked to disclose modifications he himself  had made to the car. As he bought the car 
with the modifications  already made, he didnt think hed done anything  wrong  by not making 
LV aware of them. He said he felt LV had pressured  him into making the statement which  
voided the insurance. He also said LV stated the car had a body kit which was factually 
incorrect.
LV responded saying they felt the decision to void the insurance was fair. They  quoted the 
information Mr H provided on a phone call where  he explained the exhaust  had been  re-
tuned and the engine  re-mapped. They apologised for noting the body kit incorrectly. They  
said they had valued the car fairly before this information was disclosed. 
So, they felt they acted  reasonably when making  the relevant bodies  aware  of the mis-
representation. Mr H was unhappy with this response so he referred  his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. He thought LV had fairly 
voided the policy as they werent made aware of the modifications when he changed  his car. 
He said LV wouldnt have added the car to the policy  if they had all the information. And LV 
hadnt pressured Mr H into explaining the modifications. So, he didnt think  LV needed to 
take any further action.
Mr H disagreed. He said the engine hadnt  been modified despite him saying so on the call. 
He suggested  the engine  had been  modified to make sure his car was inspected  to increase 
the value of the PAV. He said if LV had inspected the car as theyd promised they would, 
they wouldve  realised  this. He felt the other modifications to the car were factory fitted  so 
didnt need to be declared.  So, he maintained LV had voided  his insurance unfairly.
The investigator responded to these points and said he still thought  LV had acted fairly. He 
provided images that show the differences between the engine in Mr Hs car and that of an 
unmodified engine of the same car. Mr H responded explaining the engine cover  could  be 
purchased separately  so this didnt prove the engine itself had been altered. As Mr H 
remained unhappy, the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN86608602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator. I want to re-assure both parties 
that Ive considered all of the comments that have been provided  but I will refer only to those 
I think are relevant to this decision.
Was there misrepresentation?
Ive first considered whether LV have been  reasonable when  deciding  Mr H withheld  
information. Ive seen the policy schedule  LV provided to Mr H after he decided to renew his 
insurance for a further year in 2017.  This schedule states the insurance is based on the 
understanding that the car has not been  changed  from the manufacturers standard 
specification.
Im aware Mr H had been insured by LV since 2011 and changed his car to the one this 
complaint refers to in 2015. I havent  seen any evidence  to show that Mr H spoke to LV after 
2015 to update the information  he provided initially about the car. So, I think  its likely the 
schedule Ive seen  reflects the information he provided to LV when he added  this car onto 
his insurance policy  in that year.
Mr H initially said he was asked whether hed made changes  to the car and thats  why no 
modifications were declared. Im unable to listen to the call where he provided  the 
information. But, I think the schedule wording makes  it reasonable for me to assume he was 
asked about any modifications he was aware  of, whether or not the modifications were made 
by himself or previous owners.
Ive been unable to listen to the calls where Mr H made LV aware  of the modifications when 
he was disputing the PAV amount in 2018.  LV no longer  had the call available  and Mr H 
hasnt provided  the copy  he was given  by LV. But, Ive seen a transcription  of the 
conversation included in LVs response to Mr Hs complaint in August 2018.  So, Ive relied  
upon these transcriptions to understand the information Mr H provided.  Im aware of Mr Hs 
request for the full transcriptions to be provided  and considered. But I think the extracts are 
sufficient to show the conversation that was relevant  to the modifications,  and Mr H hasnt 
provided the call recordings he received  for me to consider.
Mr H told LV on two occasions that the car had a tuned exhaust system and an engine re-
map that increased the cars performance. He said these modifications  had been made to 
the car before he bought  it. On both occasions,  Mr H volunteered this information and I dont 
think there was any pressure from LV that led him to disclose this. Im aware Mr H has since  
explained he provided the incorrect information about the engine re-map  and has provided a 
letter from his mechanic to support this. But, Ive also seen images of the cars engine  which  
shows it has a different cover to the cover  youd expect from his make  of car. 
As the car has been  salvaged,  Im unable to say for certain whether the engine was re-
mapped so Ive considered all the evidence to decide  what  I think is most likely. On balance,  
I think its most likely  that the engine  was modified as Mr H advised in his call to LV. I think  
Mr H wanted to recover a greater PAV amount that took into consideration the higher 
performance of the car due to the modifications.  The photos  Ive seen support, on face 
value, his statement  that the engine  had been  modified.  
Ref: DRN86608603Im aware Mr H believes the letter from his mechanic shows there were no modifications. 
But, by the point this letter was sent,  LV had already been made aware about the engine re-
map and the tuned exhaust system. So, I think LV were  entitled to accept this information  
given directly by Mr H as accurate. So I dont think LV have  acted unfairly by continuing 
with the claim on that basis.
For these reasons, I think that when Mr H added the car to his policy  he was aware of the 
modifications and didnt disclose these to LV. So, I dont think  LV have been unreasonable  
when deciding Mr H deliberately mis-represented the information he provided to insure the 
car. 
Actions taken after becoming  aware of the modifications
Ive then considered  LVs decision to void Mr Hs insurance policy after they were made 
aware of the modifications. When doing so, Ive considered The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Ive seen LVs underwriting criteria they use when considering modifications. From this, Ive 
seen if theyd been made aware of the re-tuned exhaust and the engine re-mapping, they 
wouldnt have agreed to insure the car. Under CIDRA, as LV deemed the misrepresentation 
to be deliberate, they are entitled to void the policy and retain all the insurance  premiums.
Ive also seen Mr Hs policy documents which explain that LV would look to cancel the 
insurance if we identify  misrepresentation  or fraud or any attempt to gain an advantage 
under this insurance to which you are not entitled.  So, I think  LV have acted in line with the 
terms of Mr Hs insurance. For these reasons, I dont think  LV have been unreasonable  
when deciding to void Mr Hs insurance policy.
LV paid Mr H £758.83, the salvage value of his car, and another £1069.89 to cover the 
premiums paid to insure the car prior to period  where the claim occurred.  Id  expect the 
salvage value  to be paid to Mr H. But LV have provided a premium  refund despite having no 
obligation to do so under  CIDRA.  So, I think LV have been more than fair to Mr H given the 
circumstances.
Im aware Mr H has struggled to gain further insurance as LV reported the 
misrepresentation. But, they are obliged to report instances where they feel there has been  
deliberate misrepresentation, in order to inform  the industry of potential risks. So, I wouldnt 
expect them to now attempt to remove this report as I think it was an accurate reflection of 
the claim Mr H made.
Valuation of Mr Hs car
Im aware that Mr H was initially unhappy  with the valuation of his car which began the 
sequence of events that led to the voiding of his policy. In particular, he didnt think the 
factory fitted extras were  considered. But, LV have  confirmed  that a HPI check  was 
conducted to establish the model, specification and history of the car. From this, the car was 
confirmed to have  factory fitted extras. These extras would not include the alterations to the 
engine or the exhaust.
LV then completed  a Glasss guide  valuation based  on the information provided by the HPI 
check and searched  for examples of similar cars within a certain area of Mr Hs address. In 
doing so, they arrived  at the PAV amount. 
Ref: DRN86608604Although I understand Mr H feels the factory fitted  extras should  raise the value.  But, while 
extras are taken into account during valuation, the majority of these dont increase the 
market value of a used car above  that of a standard  specification  model.  So, its unlikely this 
would be the case. 
Ive seen that when Mr H disputed the PAV amount,  LV were willing to discuss this further. 
Mr H himself has said, LV discussed arranging  a new inspection.  However,  during these 
conversations the modifications were mentioned and the policy subsequently voided. So, the 
inspection wasnt arranged.
Im unable to speculate on whether the inspection  may have increased the initial  valuation.  
But, I think LV completed the necessary checks that showed the car had factory fitted extras.  
They were  also willing to listen to Mr Hs initial disagreement with the valuation.  For this 
reason, I think LV have acted fairly through the valuation process.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about  Liverpool Victoria  
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8660860