complaint
Ms F says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  when she took out 
a credit card in 2004 with Barclays Bank  UK PLC.
background
Ms F has already been  paid some  money for the commission  Barclays  received from selling 
her the PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked  at this case said the complaint about the 
PPI being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld.
Ms F disagreed and still thinks she was mis-sold the policy  in the first place and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Having done this, Im not upholding  the complaint about the mis-sale.
Ms F says she bought the PPI over the internet. Weve seen quite  a few similar sales  to this 
and as a consequence,  we have a good understanding of the procedures  that were  normally 
used. We know, for example, that consumers like Ms F would have had to either agree to, or 
decline, the PPI when  they were making  their way through the on-line  form before being  
allowed to finish their application.
We have access to Ms Fs actual form which shows she selected the yes option.
Being an internet sale, I think its reasonable to say that Ms F would have worked  through  
the application in her own time, without any advice  from Barclays. So it wasnt an advised 
sale and it was for Ms F to decide  for herself  whether or not she wanted PPI. Barclays duty 
was to provide  clear enough information for her to make an informed choice.
I think Ms F was eligible  for the cover which, at 79p per £100 of the outstanding credit card 
balance, appears  to have  been an affordable charge. Ms F says she didnt have any sick
pay with her job. The PPI could have reduced her credit card balance  by 10% a month for up 
to a year in the event  of a successful claim. I therefore think the policy was of value to her.
Ref: DRN8355359K820x#14I accept Barclays could  have probably done more to spell out some of the rules and 
exclusions, but I also think a lot of information  was provided. Ms F would have been able 
to access a menu of the policy rules  via a link on the screen.
So even if I accept Barclays could have been  clearer in certain aspects, I dont think Ms F 
would have done anything differently. This means  I dont think Barclays has to pay back  all 
the cost of the PPI to Ms F. Its already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to her 
because when the policy was sold it expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share
(more than 50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Ms F about that. Because  it 
didnt, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium. I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. So Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms F.
Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid to Ms F the commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms F to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8355359