K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how National  Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) has paid the 
compensation it offered to settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) taken out with a loan.
background
In 2003 Mr J took out a loan ending 1705  and alongside this bought  a PPI policy.  In 2018 
Mr J complained to NatWest that the PPI had been mis-sold. NatWest agreed  to uphold his 
complaint and offered £873.87 in compensation. 
Mr J says he never received the compensation NatWest had offered and he brought  his 
complaint to his service.  NatWest said it had paid the compensation to the loan account as a 
balance was still owed  for the loan. This loan account had been closed in 2008  with a debt 
outstanding as Mr J had never fully repaid the loan amount he borrowed.
Our adjudicator said what NatWest had done  in setting  the compensation against  the debt 
on the loan account was fair. Mr J was still unhappy  and asked for an ombudsman  to look 
into his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr J complained the PPI was mis-sold  NatWest agreed to uphold  his complaint and 
pay him compensation. So in this decision Im not looking at how the PPI came to be mis-
sold. Im only looking  at if what NatWest  has done to settle the complaint and pay the 
compensation is fair.
When Mr J took out his loan in 2003  he borrowed some extra to pay for the PPI premium. So 
he was repaying  this as part of his loan. When NatWest worked out the compensation due to 
Mr J for the mis-sold  PPI, it considered how much he had paid for the PPI when making his 
repayments. It also took into account  any time he was out of pocket for these costs and 
included some compensatory interest in its offer.  This resulted in the offer of £873.87 being 
made as the compensation.
Mr J was supposed to repay his loan in full from 2003 to 2008.  He made the monthly  
repayments until June  2006 but after this stopped paying and defaulted on the loan. He still 
owed £2,152.02 for the total loan he had borrowed,  including an amount for the PPI.
In 2008, when the loan should have been  repaid in full, NatWest  had not received any 
further payments.  So it closed the loan account, setting a rebate for part of the PPI costs 
against the balance. This still left £1,813.47 to be paid back  by Mr J to NatWest. This 
amount would have  included  a small amount for the PPI but the bulk of it was for what  Mr J 
had borrowed for his own use and never repaid.
When NatWest offered to settle Mr Js complaint  about the mis-sold PPI it sent its offer letter  
with an acceptance  form to Mr J. This indicated  both in the letter and the on the acceptance  
form, which Mr J signed on 22 November 2018,  that any arrears on the loan account  would  
be cleared first before any balance was sent to Mr J.
Ref: DRN86178352The £873.87  didnt  clear the outstanding balance on the loan account of £1,813.47, so Mr J 
didnt receive any of the payment directly.
There is in law what is known as an equitable right of set-off.  This allows  a business  to set-
off closely connected  debts. For this right of set-off to apply, there must be a close 
connection between  the PPI compensation and the outstanding debt. 
In Mr Js complaint, the PPI was directly associated with the loan account,  and some  of the 
debt Mr J never repaid  was for part of the premium borrowed for the PPI. So I think its fair 
that NatWest used the PPI compensation to reduce the debt Mr J still owes  for the loan. 
NatWest did indicate  in its offer letter that it would  do this. And the acceptance  Mr J signed 
also said any arrears would be cleared before any balance was paid to Mr J. So I dont think  
NatWest has done  anything wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I think what National Westminster Bank PLC has done 
with the compensation offered for the mis-sold PPI with Mr Js loan is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8617835