K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  on behalf  of his company - which Ill refer to as G - that Society of Lloyds 
(Lloyds) unfairly cancelled his motor fleet insurance  policy.
Reference to Lloyds includes the relevant underwriters and agents acting for them.
background
G rents out cars which are insured under its fleet policy.  Drivers use those cars for reward 
and pay G a weekly rental fee under  contract.  In July 2017  Lloyds told Mr L that it had 
concerns about  his links with another company  and cancelled his policy. Mr L then took out 
another policy for G with a different insurer. Mr L complained about Lloyds cancellation of 
the policy.
Lloyds agreed  it had cancelled the policy unfairly.  It said that if Mr L provided details of his 
companys new policy  it would consider reimbursing the difference  between  what  he had 
been paying for his policy with Lloyds and his new premium. It also offered him £500 
compensation for the inconvenience. Mr L gave Lloyds the new policy details. But Lloyds 
said that as the two policies weren't the same  it couldn't compare the two. So it said it didn't 
intend to pay compensation for the difference between the two premiums. Instead  it offered 
a further £500 compensation,  to make the total offer £1,000.
my first provisional  decision and significant responses
On 23 August 2019 I issued a provisional  decision. I said that I didn't think Lloyds had dealt  
with G fairly. And because  it had cancelled the policy unreasonably G had incurred 
significant additional costs. So I said Lloyds should  reimburse G for the additional costs of 
its replacement policy and the charges G paid to its new insurer  for amending the policy. I 
also said it should pay compensation of £2,500  for the impact on the business,  damage to 
reputation and inconvenience.
Mr L and Lloyds replied. I dont intend to repeat everything they said here but will 
summarise what  I see as being the most  significant points. 
Mr L provided further information about  his losses. He said hed had to pay a number of 
drivers £500 each to stay contracted to G. He supported that with letters  from some  of the 
drivers to confirm that had happened. Mr L added that, as the drivers couldn't  use the cars 
while he sorted out the replacement insurance policy  he didn't charge them that weeks 
rental of £250  per driver. He said that while he was able to find a replacement  policy  within 
four days  it took several days to sort out the relevant paperwork with the council. He said 
that at the time Lloyds cancelled his policy G had 27 drivers contracted to it so it lost out on 
[27 x £250] £6,750 in income.
Mr L also said that, because of their age, the new insurer would  not add two drivers  to Gs 
fleet policy. Mr Ls said he insured those drivers separately on policies costing £3,654 per 
year each, which was significantly more than he was paying  to insure those drivers on his 
Lloyds policy. 
Mr L added  that because of the additional  costs for insurance, he hasnt been able to 
develop the business as planned. He said Lloyds should compensate  him for the lack of 
business development. He also told us that amongst  the community of local professional 
Ref: DRN80179832drivers it was well know that Gs policy had been  cancelled and this affected  Gs reputation  
significantly. And a number of drivers  had to think twice before using  Gs service.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. We wrote  to it to clarify the calculation of the 
difference between  the costs to insure each car with Lloyds and the costs of Mr Ls 
replacement policy. We said that the difference in premium between the cars added  to Gs 
policy would have been £974 each.  And that would be the appropriate figure on which to 
calculate compensation based on the premium  difference  for cars added to the policy after 
June 2017. We also explained to Lloyds  that it would need  to calculate Gs loss on a car by 
car basis and on a proportionate  rate depending on when cars were added  or removed from 
the policy between  the date G took out its new policy and the date the original policy  was 
due to lapse.
my second  provisional  decision  
After considering the replies from Lloyd's and Mr L I issued a second provisional decision. 
For ease Ive copied my second provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it   
Lloyds has agreed  to compensate G for the difference in cost per car between  Gs policy  
with Lloyds and the policy that replaced  it. As I've indicated  above this would be at a rate of 
£974 per car and should be calculated on a proportionate basis for each  car added or 
removed from the replacement policy between 6 July 2017 and 17 March  2018.
Mr L said that G insured  two drivers  on monthly policies as they didn't meet the underwriting  
criteria for the fleet policy which replaced his Lloyds policy.  He said he had to pay £304.50 
per policy each month, equivalent to £3,654 per year per policy. But the evidence Mr L has 
provided to support that he bought these policies isn't currently  persuasive.  
Mr Ls provided two policy  schedules. One is dated  in April 2018, which is after the period 
that I am asking Lloyds  to compensate Mr L for. So that doesnt show  additional costs to G 
in the relevant period.  The second says that it is for a policy  starting on 11 October 2017. But 
the issue date on it is 15 October 2019, some two years after the cover  ended.  Its possible 
the incorrect issue dates  been entered when it was re-printed but its not evidence  of G 
making continual  monthly  payments for two drivers for two policies. And before I could 
instruct Lloyds to compensate G for the extra costs  of insuring  these two drivers during the 
relevant period I would  need  to see persuasive  evidence that G actually  paid those 
premiums. So far Mr L hasnt produced that evidence. A letter  from the insurer  concerned  
confirming the cover provided, the dates of the cover and the payments for those in the 
relevant period would  be sufficient evidence. If Mr L can submit  such  evidence  then I will 
reconsider this point.  But at the moment I dont think it would be fair to instruct  Lloyds to 
compensate G for the difference between the Lloyds premium and the premiums to cover 
these two drivers.  
Mr L has provided signed statements from a number of drivers which  say he paid them £500 
each to retain their business. He told us he paid the drivers in cash. But he hasn't shown me 
evidence of where that money came from. I understand that the business may largely deal in 
cash, but in those circumstances  I would expect Mr L to be able to provide evidence, for example 
in the form of VAT returns, company accounts  and banking records of such  large amounts of 
cash passing through the business. But despite my explicit requests for those documents  to date 
Ref: DRN80179833Mr L hasn't  provided  them. So I don't think its fair, without sight  of the appropriate  evidence,  to 
instruct Lloyds reimburse Mr L for the sums  he says he paid to the drivers.
Mr Ls added  that G lost income of £6,670 when Lloyds cancelled its insurance.  But again 
he hasn't  shown me evidence of the business  regularly receiving such  amounts at that time. 
And, when  he initially  brought his complaint to us he told us Gs turnover was around 
£200,000, which is roughly £3,846 a week. Some way short of the £6,670  Mr L says G lost. 
But as I said above,  Mr L hasn't provided us with company accounts, bank statements or 
VAT returns with which I could get a more accurate picture of Gs income.
Mr L has also said that because of the extra sums G had to pay for insurance  the business  
couldn't grow  as hed planned. That may or may not be the case. I accept that as Gs 
insurance costs increased significantly G most likely would have had more capital in the 
period up to the date the policy was due to lapse but for its cancellation. But I don't think  I 
can safely conclude that all of that capital would  have been reinvested  into the business or 
indeed if it had been what the outcome of that reinvestment would have been. 
Mr Ls also shown us evidence that he took out a personal loan and transferred £15,000 to 
the company in order to balance  the cash flow. But this happened around seven months 
after Lloyds cancelled Gs policy. And I don't see the loan to the business  as persuasive 
evidence of the losses Mr L says Lloyds caused  G. But I do accept  that the business 
suffered more significant inconvenience and reputational damage than I had previously 
believed to be the case because the policy was cancelled unfairly. I can understand that 
given the number of drivers who used Gs service, then it might well become common  
knowledge among the local driving  community that Gs insurance had been cancelled.  And 
having reviewed  the matter carefully I think that, in order to compensate G for that 
reputational damage, the impact on its business  and the inconvenience Lloyds should pay G 
compensation totalling £3,500.
The rest of my award  to put things right remains the same  as in my initial provisional 
decision as set out below.
developments 
Lloyd's accepted my second provisional decision.  Mr L provided  us with one page each from 
Gs bank statements for July and August 2017.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it but 
my award to put things right remains the same as in my second provisional decision.
As evidence  of Gs losses Mr L has provided two pages from bank statements of July and 
August 2017.  But I dont  find that evidence sufficient to prove  the claimed losses.  Wed  
previously explained  to Mr L, that in order to evidence Gs losses, together  with anything 
else he wished to provide I wanted  to see:
Ref: DRN80179834Gs business accounts for the financial years ending in March 2017 and March  2018.
Gs VAT returns  for the financial years ending March 2017 and March 2018.
Gs bank accounts for the period from April 2017  to December 2017.
But Mr L hasn't provided that evidence. And Im not persuaded that the two pages from bank 
statements hes provided is sufficient  evidence of the turnover that Mr L said G had before 
Lloyd's cancelled the fleet policy or of the losses it had suffered because  of that. Thats  
because those two pages from bank statements alone dont provide me with a picture of Gs 
income and turnover in the months  before and after Lloyd's cancelled the policy.
Similarly, Mr L hasn't provided  any further  evidence of the two extra insurance policies he 
said hed had to take out for the two drivers that his new insurer refused to cover under  his 
fleet policy. 
So without the further evidence wed asked for I dont think  it would be fair to instruct  Lloyd's 
to compensate G for the additional losses Mr L says it suffered.
It follows that I dont intent to change the award to put things right which  I set out in my 
second provisional decision and is repeated below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decisions  I uphold this complaint. I 
require Society of Lloyds  to:
Compensate Mr L on a pro rata basis for the difference  between the premiums he would 
have paid for the cars insured on his policy with Lloyds and the premium  he paid for the 
cars insured on the replacement policy, which equates to £974 for the full policy  year. 
That should apply  to all cars insured between the date of the policys cancellation, 
6 July 2017, up to and including  17 March 2018, based on the list of cars that Mr L gave 
to Lloyds on 15 November 2018. To the refunded  sums Lloyds should add simple  
interest at a rate of 8% a year from the date Mr L made payments to the date Lloyds 
pays the refund1. 
Compensate Mr L for the amendment fees he paid on his new policy  - which wouldn't 
have been charged  on the Lloyds policy - for all amendments made  up to and including 
17 March 2018.  Lloyds should add simple interest to those  sums,  at a rate of 8% a 
year, from the date of the amendments to the date it makes payment.
Pay Mr L £3,500 compensation in total for the impact on G, the damage to its reputation  
and the inconvenience  caused  to it. If Lloyds has already paid £1,000 compensation it 
previously offered then it need  only pay the balance of £2,500;  otherwise it must pay 
Mr L the full £3,500.
Lloyd's should take the above action within 28 days of us telling it that Mr L has accepted my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
1 If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr L a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN80179835Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 3 February 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8017983