1complaint
Mr W says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
I issued my provisional  decision  on 9 January 2020.  A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains  why I think the 
complaint should  be upheld  in full  loans one to seven  and what  I think Uncle Buck  should 
do to put things right.
Mr W didnt reply to my provisional decision. 
Uncle Buck  did respond. It didn't agree with my provisional decision and made  several 
points.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
In my provisional decision I agreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  that loan two to seven 
should be treated  as a new lending relationship so I considered loan one in isolation.
I had reviewed the credit report  given  to us by Uncle Buck  which showed Mr W had a total 
of nine active accounts and a total of 19 accounts which had been opened within  the last 
six months. I reviewed Mr Ws income  and expenditure and concluded loan one shouldnt 
have been given as he was having  problems managing his finances.
For loans two to seven I again reviewed  the credit  report Uncle Buck  had provided and 
Mr Ws income and expenditure, and I didn't  think Mr W could  sustainably  repay his 
borrowing considering  his overall financial position.
Uncle Buck  has said that just because Mr W had 9 other active  accounts  and 19 accounts 
had been opened in the last six months, didn't meant they were all short-term loan 
accounts. Uncle Buck had looked  at other factors which had suggested  Mr Ws type of 
lending was a lifestyle choice. And it supplied  a screenshot  of a part of the credit report 
which it says shows Mr W might well have been  able to access other forms of credit but 
chose not to do so. Mr W had also confirmed to Uncle  Buck that he wasnt  in financial 
difficulty and his later credit reports showed less borrowing. It also said it hadnt seen 
copies of Mr Ws bank statements which was an important part of my decision.  
However, I have reviewed the full credit report Uncle Buck  has given us for the first loan  
this was provided with its file submission to this service in August 2018 and see that it 
shows there were at least two active short-terms  loans   which I think  Uncle Buck  should  
have been concerned about. Repayments were due on these two loans. This, along  with 
the other credit report information it has referred to, should have caused  it to further review 
his financial position.  
Bearing in mind Mr Ws declared monthly income of £1,500 it clearly shows  Mr W wasnt 
managing his finances and his borrowing was, or had become, unaffordable. Uncle Buck 
Ref: DRN85475952has said that it was clear to them that Mr W was a user of short-term lending  but there was 
no evidence to show that he was using these  to make ends meet.  But I disagree. Its clear 
from the credit check results that Uncle Buck obtained at the time Mr W borrowed loan one, 
that he had repaid £2,137  in the previous month  towards short-term  loan debt with other 
short-term loan providers.  This was already  in excess  of his declared  monthly  income of 
£1,500. And Uncle  Buck  could see that he had another  £1,356 of active  short-term loans in 
place.
Uncle Buck  has also said that just because Mr W had 19 accounts opened in the last six 
months and still had nine accounts  opened  when he took his first loan, this doesnt necessarily 
mean they were  all short-term loan accounts.  But the fact there was such a high number of 
accounts and that ten had already opened  and closed within the last six months  would suggest  
it was more likely than not that the borrowing was short-term. 
For the second chain of borrowing,  loans  two to seven, I have again reviewed the credit report  
and Ive also kept in mind  Uncle Bucks  comments. The total account numbers opened in the 
last six months prior to loan two being taken in April 2017 was 23. And when  considering this 
figure was already high at 19 prior to the 2014  borrowing, shows  Mr W was a very frequent 
loan taker and more  likely than not they were short-term loans. The total loan balance stood at 
just under £12,000 compared to £3,600 in 2014. And this is the borrowing pattern Mr W 
continued with once he started  borrowing  again  with Uncle  Buck. After loan two was taken, 
whenever he repaid  a loan, further borrowing was taken either the next day or within a matter 
of days, and for a higher amount.
Uncle Buck  has said Mr W had confirmed he wasnt in any financial difficulty  and I accept 
its possible that Mr Ws financial circumstances werent  correctly  reflected in the income 
and expenditure  information he provided. But I think the initial  checks  on Mr Ws credit  
report should have  sign posted to Uncle Buck that it should have taken more notice of the 
information it had already  obtained. And if it had, Mr Ws actual financial position would 
have been apparent.
Uncle Buck  has commented that it hasnt seen Mr Ws bank  statements  which  were an 
important part of my decision. But I havent  referred  to any bank statements. I have relied upon 
the information provided in the credit  reports.  Information that was available  for Uncle Buck  to 
have seen at the time of the borrowing. 
So, nothing in Uncle Bucks response  to my provisional decision has caused  me to change  my 
mind and those provisional  findings  stand. 
Ref: DRN85475953putting things right  what Im proposing for Uncle Buck to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr W paid on loans one to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative  information about  loans one to five from Mr Ws credit file;
the number of loans  taken from loan six onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries  about loans  six and seven should be removed from Mr Ws 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance LLP should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.  
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85475954Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr W says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  seven high-cost short-term loans  Uncle  Buck provided to Mr W between  
September 2014 and May 2018. Mr Ws borrowing history is as follows (I have rounded to the nearest  
pound):
Loan Date  TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest Instalment  
Monthly
Repayment
1 30/09/2014 27/10/2014 1 £250.00 £337.00
2 29/04/2017 28/07/2017 3 £500.00 £250.00
3 29/07/2017 27/10/2017 3 £500.00 £250.00
4 27/10/2017 26/01/2018 3 £600.00 £652.00
5 01/11/2017 26/01/2018 3 £700.00 £652.00
6 26/01/2018 25/05/2018 4 £600.00 £252.00
7 29/05/2018 28/11/2018 6 £700.00 £232.00
Our adjudicator initially  partially upheld  Mr Ws complaint  as he thought  the loans from loan 2 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. After further consideration our adjudicator thought all of the loans should be 
upheld because of Mr Ws financial situation. 
Uncle Buck disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr W could  repay  the loans in 
a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such  as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a consumers  income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been  given  loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Uncle  Buck was required to establish whether 
Ref: DRN85475955Mr W could  sustainably  repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue  difficulties  and in particular  
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.  
Like the adjudicator, I think that because there was a break in lending after loan 1, then from loan 2 
should be treated as the start of a new lending  relationship - so that is from loan 2 to loan 7. 
Uncle Buck has given  us copies of its credit checks so this shows the information  Uncle Buck was aware  
of, or should reasonably have been aware  of, before  it agreed to lend to Mr W. 
The first loan was a payday loan for £250 taken at the end of September 2014.  At that time the credit  
report showed  Mr W had a total of nine active  accounts and that a total of 19 accounts had been opened 
within the last six months. I think  this should have put Uncle Buck on notice that there was a likelihood 
Mr W was becoming  reliant upon short-term lending  to manage his day-to-day finances.  
At the time, Mr W had a declared monthly income  of £1,500 and his expenditure was recorded  as £350. 
The payday  loan repayment was £337, and I see from the creditors report, given to us by Uncle Buck, 
that he had paid over £2,000 to short term lenders in the previous month, so considerably above Mr Ws 
declared monthly income. This would  suggest he was borrowing to repay existing debt.  And Mr W was 
due to make  payments of over £1,500 on fixed term borrowing in the future. Taking  all of this into 
consideration, if it had taken  notice  of the credit  report information,  I think  Uncle Buck  would  have 
concluded that Mr W was having problems  managing his finances  and was already  in a circle of debt 
which was unsustainable.
In conclusion I provisionally  agree that loan 1 shouldnt have been offered bearing in mind  Mr Ws 
financial circumstances which were known to Uncle Buck.
I will now look at loans 2 through to 7. This would be considered as a new lending chain because of the 
length of time since the previous borrowing in 2014. 
Loan 2 was taken in April 2017 and was to be repaid over three instalments. Mr Ws income was the 
same as he had previously declared  at £1,500 per month  and his expenditure  had marginally  increased 
to £370. But again, I have looked at the credit  report that Uncle Buck  has given us and again, it contains 
information that I think should have given Uncle Buck cause for concern  about  whether it was 
appropriate to allow Mr W to borrow.
The credit  report shows that Mr W had eight active accounts and that a total of 23 had been opened  
within the last six months. The balance owed on those accounts stood  at just under £12,000  and the 
amount Mr W had paid to finance his short-term loan accounts for the previous month was £4,000. So, I 
think Mr Ws ability to sustainably be able to repay  any additional borrowing was unlikely considering  his 
overall financial position.  
So, I provisionally uphold Mr Ws complaint about loans 2 through  to 7. 
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Uncle  Bucks  lending history with Mr W, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so, Uncle Buck should have  realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ws case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because:
Ref: DRN85475956Mr Ws first loan in the borrowing chain of loans 2 to 7 was for £500 and loan 6 was for £600.  At 
this point  Uncle Buck  ought  to have known that Mr W was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary  
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle Buck. Loan 7 was taken  out 11 
months after Mr Ws first loan in the chain of 2 to 7. And it was for a larger amount. Mr W had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Uncle Buck over an extended period.
I think  that Mr W lost out because Uncle  Buck  continued to provide borrowing  from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging  Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr W borrowed was likely  to have had 
negative implications on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So Im also intending to uphold the complaint about loans  1 to 7 and Uncle  Buck should put things right.
putting things  right  what Im proposing for Uncle Buck to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr W paid on loans  1 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the date they were  paid 
(if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove  any negative information about loans 1 to 5 from Mr Ws credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards  means any information recorded about them  is 
adverse. So all entries about loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im intending on upholding  Mr Ws complaint. 
Uncle Buck Finance LLP should put things right as set out above.
Please could  Uncle Buck  Finance LLP and Mr W send me any more information or comments  for me to 
look at by 9 February  2020. After that, Ill issue my decision. 
Ref: DRN8547595