K821x#15Complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny)  ought  to have known that 
he could not afford to repay the  loans, given that he had to borrow further loans (often from 
other payday lenders)  in order to make the repayments which resulted in him being in a debt 
spiral.
Background
Mr B took a running  credit facility with a £750 credit  limit followed by five instalment loans 
from Sunny  between April 2014 and September  2015. A summary of Mr Bs borrowing, 
based on the information provided to us by Sunny, can be found in the table  below:
loan 
numberreceived 
dateactual 
repayment datenumber  of 
instalmentsloan 
amountcombined max 
monthly  
repayment
1 27/04/2014 04/12/2014 5 £750.00 £308.92
2 04/04/2015 28/08/2015 6 £750.00 £242.67
3 21/05/2015 02/09/2015 6 £200.00 £300.16
4 06/06/2015 02/09/2015 6 £300.00 £396.14
5 31/08/2015 02/09/2015 6 £400.00 £286.58
6 02/09/2015 28/09/2015 6 £750.00 £246.28
In our adjudicators most recent findings,  she thought Sunny had treated Mr B fairly  when  it 
approved his running credit facility (loan  1). But felt the way Mr B used his facility, should  
have caused Sunny concern. She thought Sunny should have stopped  allowing  Mr B to draw 
down from his fifth drawdown until the facility was closed.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint about  loans 2-5. Although  the checks  for 
some of these loans may not have gone  far enough,  the adjudicator didnt think  that further, 
more in-depth checks wouldve made  a difference to Sunnys decision to lend.  But by loan 6, 
our adjudicator felt that a pattern of lending  had been established, which shouldve indicated  
to Sunny that Mr B wasnt able to sustainably make his loan repayments.
In Sunnys most  recent findings, it agreed that further checks were warranted for Mr Bs sixth 
loan and it made an offer which was in-line with our adjudicators  opinion  for this loan. But
Sunny didnt accept  the adjudicators full findings for several reasons, and it made  the 
following points:
Mr B did not at any stage contact  Sunny  to inform it of the now alleged  
financial difficulty and had he done so, Sunny would  have exercised 
forbearance in accordance with its regulatory  obligations;
Mr B did not have to use more  than 9.55% of his monthly income  to repay  any 
one loan;
There was a break in lending  of at least four months; 
There is not an outstanding balance on Mr Bs account.
Mr Bs representatives told us he did not want  to accept Sunnys offer.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN82161392My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  in order to reasonably 
conclude Mr B could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough  checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
To begin with Sunny  has already accepted that something may have gone wrong when loan 
6 was given to Mr B. So as this loan is no longer in dispute I have no reason to reach any 
findings about it in this final decision. However, I have included this loan in the section where 
I direct  Sunny  as to what  it needs to do to put things  right for Mr B. 
The relevant  regulations  in place at the time Mr B was given his Sunny facility  (loan  1)
In practice, all of this meant that a lender  had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer would be able to repay  what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner without 
it adversely impacting on their financial situation.  Put simply Sunny had to gather enough 
information so that it could  make  an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
Ref: DRN82161393But to be clear, Mr B wasnt given a payday  loan where he had to repay all of what he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  
was an expectation  that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within  a period of 
five months. So overall I think that this means  the checks Sunny carried out had to provide  
enough information for it to be able to understand whether  Mr B would likely be able to 
service and then repay this facility within five months.
As Ive said,  Mr B was granted  a running  credit  facility with a £750 limit. According to the 
credit agreement, had he drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the facility, 
his largest contractual repayment he would  need  to make would be £308.92.
Before granting the facility  Sunny  asked  Mr B about his monthly  income, which he declared 
was £3,240, and it also completed  a credit check. Having considered all the information  
Sunny gathered about Mr Bs circumstances, I think it could see that Mr B would likely be 
able to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
There was information  showing Mr B had defaulted  on an account and he had an 
outstanding default balance to repay.  But as the default had occurred 43 months before his 
application to Sunny,  I think  enough  time had passed for Sunny to believe  that Mr Bs 
circumstances had improved since the default was applied. The credit checks  also showed 
Mr B had an outstanding  short term loan with another  lender worth £1,000. But given the 
information Mr B provided about  his monthly  income, I think  Sunny could have reasonably  
believed he could still meet its repayments.   
Given this was the start of the lending  relationship  it wasnt unreasonable for Sunny  to have 
relied on the information Mr B provided  about  his income.  So,  I dont think proportionate 
checks wouldve extended  to Sunny  asking  Mr B to evidence what  he was declaring. So I 
dont think Sunny was wrong to have initially approved the facility.
However, that doesnt mean that Sunny hasnt done  anything wrong.  Ive also looked  at how 
Mr B used the facility,  with a view to seeing  if there was a point at which Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.
When Mr B had this facility Sunny was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The consumer credit sourcebook (section 6.7.2)  says: a firm must monitor  the customers  
repayment record and take action where there are signs  of actual or possible repayment 
difficulties. So Ive thought  about  whether Sunny did enough to monitor  the facility was it 
was approved. 
Our adjudicator thought Sunny shouldve seen this by the time Mr B applied  for his fifth 
drawdown on 25 September  2014. By this point, our adjudicator  thought that Sunny would 
have seen that Mr Bs borrowing history  showed he was potentially reliant on the facility.
Mr B initially  requested his full credit limit of £750  in one drawdown in April 2014.  He repaid 
what he owed in full by the end of May 2014.  I can see Mr B didnt request any further  credit  
until the beginning of July 2014, when he requested to borrow  his full credit limit again. 
Mr B repaid  what he owed  by the very end of August 2014,  but went on to request his full 
credit limit again around three days later. This suggests Mr B may have potentially been 
struggling financially  resulting in him needing  to access further  funds available to him within 
a few days. I think this is something which should  have put Sunny on notice  but I dont think 
this should have warranted further  action at this stage. I say this because Mr B had only 
Ref: DRN82161394used his account on three occasions in over four months, so I dont think  a pattern had 
emerged at this stage showing a reliance  on Sunnys facility.
However, this is where Mr Bs borrowing started  to become more frequent. Mr B repaid his 
balance in full around two weeks  after requesting his full credit  limit but proceeded to request 
his full limit again  around five days later. Mr Bs need to borrow  so soon after he repaid his 
balance in full was not the actions of someone  comfortable financially.
Mr B went  on to repay what he owed in full around three  days later. But the day after 
clearing his balance,  he requested his full credit limit again. This is the point which  I think 
Sunny should  have  halted any further lending. Mr B had used his account this way on three  
occasions in one month, which means  Sunny should have been aware that he was not using 
his account as intended. Indeed, what appears to have happened  is that Mr B was borrowing 
further from Sunny in order  to fill a hole in his finances that was made by making  repayments  
to Sunny.  And so this isnt a sustainable  form of borrowing.
As Ive explained above, Sunny was required to monitor Mr Bs account and step in where 
financial difficulty became  apparent. From 25 September 2015, I think  Sunny should have 
halted Mr B using the facility and therefore stopped  any further interest from this point until 
the facility closed. But I dont think Sunny did this early enough. So Im upholding Mr Bs 
complaint about  his running credit facility  (loan  1) from 25 September  2015. 
loans 2  5
Around four months after finally repaying his running  credit  facility, Mr B applied for an 
instalment loan (loan 2) of £750,  to be repaid in six monthly instalments.
Sunny says it enquired about  Mr Bs income and all expenses,  including  any short-term  
lending commitments  and it also used information  from Credit  Reference Agencies (CRAs). 
And it was satisfied based on what it saw that Mr B would be in a position  to be able to afford  
all of his loans.
But Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr B could sustainably  repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mr B could 
sustainably make his repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
I acknowledge that Sunny feels a four month  break from borrowing was enough time to 
suggest Mr B wasnt reliant  on its loans.  But bearing  in mind the way Mr B ran his credit 
facility, and the fact he had just applied for the same loan amount of £750, I think  Sunny 
shouldve carried out a full review of Mr Bs financial position from loan two onwards - which 
ought to have included asking to verify  some  of the information he had provided.  
A credit check doesnt necessarily give a complete picture of a persons financial situation as 
there may be things  going on in the background which one wouldnt pick up. And just 
because a consumer  repays their balance in full, this doesnt  mean that the lending was 
affordable or sustainable. 
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think there  were clear indicators that Mr B was 
having difficulties  which shouldve alerted Sunny  to that possibility. But Sunny didnt take 
steps to verify Mr Bs income and expenditure and instead chose to rely on what Mr B told it, 
so I dont think that its checks were reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN82161395However, Mr B hasnt provided  copies of his bank  statement or credit  file, so Im unable  to 
see what proportionate checks  would have shown Sunny  and whether this would have made  
a difference in Sunnys  decision  to lend. So Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint  about these 
loans.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid from 25 September  2015 until the facility 
closed and loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  from Mr Bs credit file, about Mr Bs running  credit 
facility from 25 September  2015  until the facility  is closed and remove loan 6 from Mr 
Bs credit file entirely,  this is because the period of time Mr B owed  Sunny  money  
means that any information still recorded  about this loan is adverse.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should  pay Mr B compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8216139