K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 7 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr C between  July 2015 to 
April 2016. A summary of Mr Cs borrowing history  is as follows:
LoanDate  Taken Date Rep Instalments Amount* Highest 
Repayment  
amount  
1 21/07/2015 18/11/2015 6 £500.00 £138.59
2 01/09/2015 05/10/2015 6 £200.00 £194.01
3 22/10/2015 18/11/2015 6 £300.00 £224.85
4 24/11/2015 16/12/2015 6 £250.00 £76.58
5 01/01/2016 09/03/2016 6 £500.00 £157.32
6 10/03/2016 01/06/2016 6 £500.00 £158.36
7 21/04/2016 04/05/2016 6 £50.00 £174.19
*Please note where  loans  overlapped,  the highest  repayment increased.
Mr C said that the loans created a cycle of borrowing in order  that he could repay  previous  
loans and that he had become dependent on short term loans.  A check would have made it 
clear that Mr C could not afford extra borrowing. Mr C says he was so worried that the loans 
created financial  hardship,  stress and pressure.
Sunny said that it had taken into account Mr Cs credit history as well as his eligibility and 
lending criteria and after its review his loans were deemed appropriate and affordable.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint and thought  the loans 5 onwards  shouldnt have 
been given. Sunny disagreed with this view and asked  for the matter  to be referred  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN89789162But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Sunny has told us it asked for the consumers  income, expenditure, carried out a credit  
check and it also asked  about other  short-term  lending  commitments.  Mr C was in the early  
stages of his relationship  when he took out loans 1, 2, 3. By loan 4 I think at this stage in the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  the amounts Mr C had to repay for this loan was 
relatively modest compared  with Mr Cs declared income and expenditure. So, I think  it was 
reasonable for Sunny to rely on the information  Mr C had provided.
But when Mr C took out loan 5 it should have been apparent to Sunny that it was likely  that 
Mr C had had problems  in managing  his money.  Although Sunny has pointed out Mr C had 
paid off his previous loans, Mr C had taken out 5 instalment loans in 5 months and there 
were hardly any gaps between lending. Loan  5 was for double  the amount hed been given 
for loan 4. So, I think Sunny shouldve fully reviewed  Mr Cs finances before approving loan 
5. 
I think if Sunny had made better checks it wouldve seen that Mr C had been taking other  
short-term loans from a few other lenders  over time.  And the amounts he could borrow and 
repay could  be significant.  
Ref: DRN89789163I think taking everything  into account  I'm not persuaded that Sunny acted responsibly when it 
provided loan 5 to Mr C and as a result, I think there  was a significant risk in this case  that 
Mr C would be unable to meet his repayments in a sustainable manner  for this loan. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr C was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. By the time Mr C had taken out his loan 6 he had been indebted to 
Sunny for nearly eight  months  save for 18 days.  So Sunny ought to have realised  it 
was more likely than not Mr C was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous  loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness  
was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Cs first loan was for £500 and loan 6 was for the same amount so the amounts 
Mr C was borrowing hadnt  decreased. Mr C had also borrowed £500 when he took 
out loan 5. So, it doesnt seem  likely  that Mr Cs need for cash was reducing which 
also points to him having a longer term need for funds. So, at this point Sunny ought 
to have known  that Mr C was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in 
their income but to meet an ongoing need.  
Mr C took out loan 6 within one day of settling his previous loan and when Mr C was 
provided with a new loan 7 he was still repaying his previous  loan. 
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  7 was 
taken out around nine months after Mr Cs first. And although it was a loan for a 
smaller amount Mr C still had to make repayments for loan 6 which he hadnt yet paid 
off. Mr C had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over 
an extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Cs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him/her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 5 and from loan 6 onwards and Sunny 
should put things right.
putting things right 
In order to put things  right for Mr C, Sunny should:
Ref: DRN89789164refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 5,6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Mr Cs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loan 6 and loan 7 should be removed 
from Mr Cs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8978916