K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that AEGON Investment Solutions  Limited provided  a poor service when 
closing investment accounts.
background
Mr T asked  to close his stocks and shares  ISA account with AEGON in July 2018. He was 
initially told this would  need to be done  by email, but as he doesnt use email, AEGON  
eventually agreed  to post him the relevant  closure  forms. 
There followed a period of back and forth correspondence while  AEGON  asked  to verify 
bank details, struggled to accept Mr Ts account passbook (as opposed  to a bank statement) 
as evidence of his bank details and provided  several different dates on which  Mr T would  
receive funds back into his account.
After the ISA had been closed and the funds paid into Mr Ts chosen account, Mr T was 
surprised to receive a statement showing a small balance still on his ISA. He contacted  
AEGON for an explanation, but didnt receive  a satisfactory response.
Unhappy with the service  he was receiving  from AEGON, Mr T brought  his complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked  into it and found that AEGON had provided a poor 
service. He recommended  it pay Mr T £50 by way of compensation.
AEGON accepted the investigators view, but Mr T didnt. He said he wasnt  interested in 
financial compensation, but wanted a full and frank explanation from AEGON  of both its 
delays in communication and the small balances  showing on his account. 
Mr Ts complaint has now been referred  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr T has provided detailed notes about  
the events around  the closure  of his account,  which have been very helpful. I hope  he will 
not take it as a discourtesy that my decision is presented  as more of a summary. We are 
designed to be an informal  dispute resolution service  and while I might not mention every 
point thats been raised,  Id like to assure Mr T that Ive thought  carefully about everything  he 
and AEGON have  said.
There is no dispute that in this instance AEGON hasnt offered Mr T good customer service. 
Mr T previously brought a complaint about  the delays in payment  of his funds, which was 
resolved with the help of our service.  So in this decision Ive focused on the small balance  
remaining in his ISA account and the problems Mr Ts encountered  trying to get answers 
around this.
Ref: DRN88081942AEGON has explained  that after an investment vehicle (such  as Mr Ts stocks and shares 
ISA) is closed, its not unusual for occasional small amounts to be paid in. This is often the 
result of extra interest payments or late dividends, which have to be fairly  split amongst all 
past fund holders. Its possible  for these payments to be received for a few months  or longer 
after an account is closed  and AEGON has a responsibility to keep Mr T informed of any 
funds in his account. So while I think it could have  explained this more  clearly to Mr T, I dont 
think its done anything  wrong in sending  the statements  to him.
I can see Mr T tried to contact AEGON several times to understand what  was happening  
with his account. But he found  this very difficult  letters went  unanswered and when he 
called he found  it difficult to get through.  AEGON has apologised for this and its now written  
to Mr T with its apology and an explanation of what went  wrong.  And I think  this is the right 
thing to have done.
AEGON also agreed to our investigators award  of £50. While I appreciate Mr T is more  
interested in the apology and explanation than any financial compensation, I agree  that its 
appropriate for AEGON  to offer something  for the trouble  and inconvenience  caused. I leave 
it to Mr T to decide whether he wishes to accept this. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  AEGON Investment  Solutions  Limited has already written to Mr T 
with an apology and explanation. If Mr T accepts  this decision, it should  also pay him £50 (if 
it hasnt done  so already).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8808194