K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how Inter Partner Assistance SA dealt with a claim against
their annual, multi-trip travel insurance  policy following curtailment of their trip.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 14 April 2020,  an 
extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I wont repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that IPA hadnt acted fairly in dealing  
with Mr and Mrs Bs claim. I said that it should  compensate Mr and Mrs B for the unused  
flights as a proportion  of the overall  journey and for their distress and inconvenience. I set 
out what I proposed  to direct IPA to pay.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional decision but IPA didnt. It said:
It wasnt unreasonable for it to assess the value  of the unused leg of the trip by 
dividing the total flight costs by the number of legs of the overall journey and number 
of people travelling.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt  provide a specific breakdown, so it used a generic calculation.
To consider costs  further,  it would need  specific costs from the travel company  that 
arranged the flights, as required  by the policy terms.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPAs response to my provisional decision is, essentially, a restatement of its position.  As I 
explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think that the relevant policy terms requires     
Mr and Mrs B to provide  evidence of the individual  legs of their flights. And whilst  its 
reasonable for IPA to have  a general  policy for how to deal with claims for unused  legs of 
flights, I think it should check to see that its policy leads to a fair outcome. For the reasons I 
set out in my provisional decision, IPAs  generic calculation doesnt  lead to a fair outcome 
here. 
Ive looked again at IPAs  arguments but I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think that IPA 
treated Mr and Mrs B fairly in dealing with their claim following curtailment of their holiday. I 
think a fair and reasonable approach is for IPA to pay Mr and Mrs B an additional £1,092.14 
in relation to their unused flights,  plus interest.  It should also pay Mr and Mrs B 
compensation of £200 in relation to their distress  and inconvenience, taking into account any 
payment its already made in relation  to that.  
Ref: DRN85468402my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, my final decision  is that I 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I now direct  Inter Partner  Assistance  SA to pay               
Mr and Mrs B:
£1,092.14  in relation to their unused flights.
Interest on the above amount at the simple rate of 8% per year,  from the date
Mr and Mrs B made the claim to the date it makes  the payment. 
Total compensation of £200 in relation to Mr and Mrs Bs distress and 
inconvenience, taking  into account any payment its already made  for that.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires IPA to take off tax from this interest. IPA must give
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 June  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85468403extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how Inter Partner Assistance SA dealt with a claim against  
their annual, multi-trip travel insurance  policy following curtailment of their trip.
background
Mr and Mrs B and three family members booked  a trip to South America from the UK, 
stopping off in Lisbon. Whilst they were in Lisbon, one of the party  became ill and the family 
curtailed their trip. The family member whod  been  ill returned  home  by train and                  
Mr and Mrs B and the two others  in the party changed their flights to return home to the UK.
On their return to the UK in October  2018, Mr and Mrs B made  a claim against their policy.  
Mr and Mrs Bs three family members are insured separately with another insurer.
IPA paid parts of Mr and Mrs Bs claim but Mr and Mrs B dont agree with how IPA has dealt 
with their claim for the unused flights between Lisbon and South America.  They  also 
complain about  IPAs handling  of their claim.
In response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, IPA said that it hadnt calculated the claim 
correctly, as it should have dealt with both the outward and return flights  from Lisbon to 
South America and included Mr and Mrs Bs part of the fee for changing  the flights. IPA 
acknowledged that Mr and Mrs B hadnt  been given a breakdown of their settlement. It 
offered them  compensation of £100.
IPA says that, as Mr and Mrs B havent provided a breakdown of the costs of each leg of the 
flights, it used a generic calculation. It said that Mr and Mrs B would need to provide 
specific costs for each  leg of the flights.
Mr and Mrs B want IPA to pay remaining flight costs of £1,544.48 and compensation of
£100. They  also want this service to investigate IPA.
One of our investigators looked  at what had happened. He said that he didnt  think  that IPA 
was required to pay Mr and Mrs B any more  in relation to flight costs. The investigator said 
it wasnt unreasonable for IPA to assess the value  of the unused leg of the trip by dividing 
the total flight costs  by the number of legs of the overall journey and the number of people  
travelling. The investigator thought that IPA should pay Mr and Mrs B an additional £100 in 
relation to its delay  in dealing with the claim.
IPA agreed  with the investigator but Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They  said that theyd 
complied with IPAs requirement to provide written details of the elements of their claim 
and that the policy doesnt say that where a flight is a single ticket  with a stopover, they 
must provide a breakdown  of the flight. Mr and Mrs B say that, in any event, a single flight 
from Lisbon to South America costs  more than the entire UK-Lisbon-South America flight.
Mr and Mrs B wanted to know  how many times IPA had used  this calculation and how 
often it works to the policyholders  advantage.
The investigator looked at the matter again but didnt change his view.  As there was no 
agreement between the parties,  the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman,  to 
decide.
Ref: DRN85468404my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite  understandable that Mr and Mrs B have strong feelings about this matter. 
Theyve provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which I have read and 
considered. This service  isnt the regulator  and we cant direct  a business in relation to how 
it organises its business or make general enquires  about its calculation of claim costs.  I trust 
that Mr and Mrs B wont take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus  on what  I consider the 
central issue, that is, whether IPA acted within the terms and conditions of the policy  and 
fairly in dealing with their claim.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy,  the relevant part of which are 
as follows:
Section A Cancellation or curtailment  charges  
What is covered  
We will pay you up to £6,000 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable  unused travel 
and accommodation  costs [] which  you have  paid or are contracted  to pay, together  with 
your proportion only of any reasonable additional  travel expenses incurred if
a)  cancellation  of the trip or one-way trip is necessary and unavoidable 
b)  The trip is curtailed before  completion
as a result  of any of the following  events  
The [] illness [] of:
[]
(b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel 
with.
Curtailment is defined  as:
 Curtailment / Curtail  / Curtailed means either:
a)  abandoning or cutting  short  the trip by direct early return to your home 
area, in which case claims will be calculated  from the day you returned to your  
home area and based on the number of complete  days  of your  trip you have 
not used, or []
Claims evidence
We will require  (at your own expense) the following  evidence where relevant: 
[]
    In the case  of curtailment claims,  written  details from your travel agent,  tour 
operator or provider  of transport/accommodation of the separate costs of transport, 
accommodation and other pre-paid costs or charges that made up the total cost of 
the trip.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that IPA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  I dont  think that IPA has done  that here and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN85468405I dont think that the policy term Ive set out above requires Mr and Mrs B to provide 
evidence of the cost of the individual legs of their flights.  That term requires         
Mr and Mrs B to provide evidence of the individual  elements of their claims, such  
as transport, accommodation and car hire costs, not sub-sets of those elements.
In any event, in November 2018, Mr and Mrs B provided IPA with evidence  from their 
travel company that their flights were issued as a through  fare from the UK to 
South America and permitted a stop in Lisbon at no additional  cost.  So it couldnt  
provide a breakdown of the cost of each leg of their flights. The travel  company also 
said that at the time they bought the flights, it was more expensive to book flights  
direct from the UK to their destination  in South America than with a stopover.
I think its reasonable for IPA to have a general policy  for how to deal with claims for 
unused legs of flights but, as curtailment  cases are case specific  and varied, I think it 
should check to see that its policy leads  to a fair outcome. In the particular 
circumstances here,  I dont think its fair for IPA to calculate the claim for the unused  
flights between Lisbon to South  America in the way it has. Thats because it has 
approached the calculation  as if the two legs of the journey are of equal value and 
thats clearly not the case: the loss of the Lisbon  to South America flight was of 
greater value than the UK to Lisbon flight Mr and Mrs B used.
I dont think it would be reasonable to direct  IPA to pay Mr and Mrs B the total cost of 
the UK-Lisbon-South America  flights, as theyve  had the benefit of the UK-Lisbon 
legs. In reaching that view, Ive noted that Mr and Mrs B say that it would have been 
more expensive to book direct  flights. But Im looking  at the loss Mr and Mrs B 
actually incurred, not the loss they may have incurred if theyd booked  different 
flights.
So, the question for me to decide is whats fair here. The cost of flights  is 
notoriously variable and not necessarily related to the distance travelled. In the 
specific circumstances of this case,  I think a simple, fair and reasonable approach 
is to look at what  proportion  of the flights Mr and Mrs B didnt use because  of the 
curtailment of their trip. I think IPA should  compensate Mr and Mrs B for the unused 
flights as a proportion  of the overall  journey.
In very broad terms, Mr and Mrs B used 21% of their flight  in terms of miles travelled
(UK to Lisbon 972 miles; Lisbon to South America 3,628 miles, so they used
972/4,600). So, 79% of the flight was unused because of the curtailment of the trip. 
I think that IPA should pay Mr and Mrs B a total of 79% of their flight  costs,  plus 
interest.
Based  on what Ive seen, it appears  that Mr and Mrs Bs total flight costs  were 
£3,766 (total flight costs for five people  £9,415). 79% of that is £2,975.14. IPA has 
already paid £1,883 (£941.50 on 3 January 2019  and £941.50 on 24 January 2019). 
So it should  pay Mr and Mrs B an additional  £1,092.14 in relation to their unused  
flights. As Mr and Mrs B have  been kept out of the use of that money, IPA should 
also pay interest.
I think that IPAs handling  of Mr and Mrs Bs claim was muddled, piece-meal and 
unnecessarily protracted. I think  total compensation of £200 in relation to that is 
fair. Its not clear to me whether IPA has already paid Mr and Mrs B compensation 
of £100. If it has, it should pay Mr and Mrs B another £100.
Ref: DRN85468406my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I intend  to direct
Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr and Mrs B:
£1,092.14  in relation to their unused flights.
Interest on the above amount at the simple rate of 8% per year,  from the date          
Mr and Mrs B made their claim  to the date it makes the payment.
Total compensation of £200 in relation to Mr and Mrs Bs distress and 
inconvenience, taking  into account any payment its already made  for that.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires IPA to take off tax from this interest. IPA must give
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN8546840