Complaint
Miss W complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave her
loans irresponsibly.
Background 
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision that I issued in 
November 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
My findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W hasnt responded to my provisional  decision. 
Sunny replied to my provisional  decision and confirmed that it agrees with the outcome of my 
decision and that it will stand by its previous  offer.
In these circumstances I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  that I reached in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Elevate Credit  International 
Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as follows:
refund  all interest and charges that Miss W paid on loans six to ten;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to ten is negative.  So all entries about  loans six to ten should  be removed from 
Miss Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take tax off this interest. Sunny must give
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Richard France
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8282558EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Background
Miss Ws complaint relates to 10 instalment  loans given to her by Sunny during 2105 and
2016. She is unhappy  that, at the time of the loans, she had debts with several  other lenders, had a low 
disposable income  and that Sunny didnt properly check the affordability of the loans to her. She was 
dependent upon loans and stuck in a cycle of borrowing.
Loans one to seven were repaid in full, but loans  eight  to ten were subject to a debt management  plan.
Sunny contends that it did carry out affordability checks and, in the light of these, considered it 
responsible to advance credit to her.
Our adjudicator didnt feel that Sunny had been wrong  to provide  the first three loans   but she did 
consider itd been unfair to give loans  four to ten.
Sunny didnt  agree entirely with our adjudicator. It offered  to uphold  Miss Ws complaint from loan six 
onwards, but maintained that it hadnt been irresponsible to give her loans one to five.
Because both parties havent agreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this means  
that it should  have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss W could  repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and 
reasonably have done  more  to establish  that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher  
repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which a 
customer has been  given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether Miss W 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable  on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments.
So it follows that a lender  should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Ref: DRN8282558Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
In response to our adjudicators opinion Sunny accepted itd been  wrong to provide loans six to ten, and 
it offered to uphold Miss Ws complaint  in relation to these loans  (I will set out later what redress I 
consider appropriate in that regard). On this basis I shall confine my consideration of the complaint now 
to loans  one to five inclusive.
In its response to our adjudication Sunny contended that the value of the repayments required to its 
loans were not significant in relation to Miss Ws declared monthly income.  It acknowledged that she 
was, on occasion, repaying more than one Sunny  loan at the same time but says that it took into 
consideration the aggregate  amount of repayments due in its affordability assessments.  It says it used 
information obtained both from Miss W and from credit  checks  undertaken before each loan was 
granted.
Sunny has argued  that up until loan eight Miss W repaid the majority of her loans within  two months 
(when each  was scheduled for repayment by six monthly instalments). This,  it suggests, implies  she 
was aware she could  save  money  by borrowing only what she needed.  I can see from the profiles of the 
loans that there does  appear to have been regular  and discretionary pre-payment of capital owing. 
However, equally,  there is clear evidence  that on occasion Miss W was also, in effect, repaying Sunny 
by taking out new loans from it.
I agree with our adjudicator that Sunny wasnt wrong to provide loans one to three inclusive.  When  loan 
three was approved, the combined sum outstanding under  loans one and two was only £278 - and the 
ensuing aggregate repayments for the three loans together didnt  represent a significant  proportion  of 
Miss Ws declared monthly income. I havent seen anything  that would suggest Sunny shouldve been 
asking more  questions  of Miss W at that stage.
Our adjudicator felt that when Miss W applied  for loan four, Sunny shouldve considered  whether  she 
was having problems managing her money because she then had three loans with it. And, had it done 
more checks to get a better insight into her financial circumstances,  it wouldve seen that she also had 
another instalment  loan outstanding  with another lender.
Having considered  carefully the characteristics  of the outstanding loans at that point, I have come to the 
view that Sunny did not act irresponsibly in providing  loans four and five. I say this because:
by the time of loan four:
-loan one had been reduced to £92,
-loan two had been repaid, and
-loan three  had £99 outstanding.
because Miss W had pre-paid sums off both loans  one and three, the loan agreements  state 
that her future monthly repayments would have been adjusted downwards  however,  these 
reduced repayment figures arent specified.
adding loan four at £300 took Miss Ws overall borrowing with Sunny  then to £491. Whilst  its 
not clear to what level the total monthly repayments for loans one and three wouldve  been 
reduced by then,  its highly unlikely that the additional £98 per month for loan four wouldve 
taken overall  monthly  repayments  to a total that would be considered  to represent a significant 
proportion of her monthly income.
For this reason, and as it was still at a relatively  early  stage in their relationship, I dont see any 
reason why Sunny shouldve been expected to ask more  questions  than it did. Consequently  I 
dont see any reason why it shouldve  been expected to be aware of her other short term loan;
just six days after loan four had been provided, Miss W applied for loan five at £200. However, 
on the very same day, she fully repaid loans one and three. This left her with loans four and 
five, amounting to £500, with monthly repayments of £160. In these circumstances it can be 
seen that the granting of loan five, did not result  in any net increase in Miss Ws indebtedness  
to Sunny and, in fact, it seems that her monthly repayments  wouldve been lower as a 
consequence of these concurrent transactions.
Ref: DRN8282558In all of these  circumstances I dont think that Sunny  was wrong to provide loans one to five inclusive, 
but I do consider  that it should fulfil its offer to uphold  loans six to ten.
Putting things right   proposed redress
refund all interest and charges that Miss W paid on loans six to ten;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each of these  amounts from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
the number of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information about loans six to ten 
is negative. So all entries about loans  six to ten should  be removed from Miss Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Sunny  to take tax off this interest.  Sunny must  give
Miss W a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN8282558K822x
Ref: DRN8282558