K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Post Office  Ltd, trading as Post Office Money doesnt make clear  the 
time period for cashing a postal order.
background
Miss M says that her postal order was issued  in December 2015 but says the discretionary 
period for cashing it isnt made clear. She initially said she wanted a goodwill gesture for the 
value which  is £10 and says if the period of discretion is limited to six months  then that 
should be made clear.
Post Office  Money doesnt accept making  a mistake  and says the postal order  states  that it 
expires after six months. It says it will allow a postal order  to be cashed  at its discretion for a 
further six months.
Miss M brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. He thought  the terms 
and conditions of the postal order were  clear and it wasnt for us to tell a business how it 
runs its business.
Miss M says this is a point of principle and Post Office Money  has acted unreasonably by not 
making sure the information is clear about  the actual expiry  date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Miss M will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels  about  whats  
happened.
Im satisfied that the postal order terms and conditions make clear  that it needs  to be cashed  
within six months. And after that period  then its up to Post Office Money to use its discretion.  
I appreciate that there isnt a specific reference  to a further six month period. But I dont think 
the information or terms and conditions are confusing.  And Im satisfied that Post Office 
Money hasnt made a mistake by refusing to cash this postal order.
I appreciate that Miss Ms main point  is that Post Office Money should  make that discretion 
period clear.  But as the adjudicator has explained, we are not the regulator of Post Office  
Money. And Im satisfied its up to a business  to make these sorts of decisions when 
exercising its commercial  judgement and its not something I can fairly interfere in.
I also think that even  if Post Office Money said on the postal order  what the maximum period 
for cashing would  be, including the discretion period, then Miss M would have been 
significantly out of time in any event for cashing  it. I appreciate Miss M says if that had been 
made clear then she wouldnt have asked Post Office Money to even consider cashing the 
postal order. But I can see from Miss Ms letter to us, that as a result  of her raising this 
matter, Post Office Money may have sent her a cheque for the same amount.
Overall I dont think Post Office Money  has acted  unfairly and I hope  Miss M understands 
that we do not regulate it.
Ref: DRN83379092my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8337909