K820x#14complaint
Ms A and Mr M complain  that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) poor 
handling of their home insurance claim for damage from an escape  of water caused  them  
distress and inconvenience. They said the compensation offered by LV is inadequate.
background
A fixed pipe in Ms A and Mr Ms toilet broke and water caused extensive damage to several 
rooms. Ms A and Mr M and their children had to move out. The process  of drying,  stripping 
out and repairs  took about six months, but their boiler failed and had to be replaced before 
they could move back in. LV also had to pay for soft furnishings damaged during the repairs.  
Ms A said that LV has paid their claim, but it was badly managed  as they had to be out of the 
house for six months, with delays and poor communication. She said a contractor damaged  
their possessions. Ms A said they complained to LV in July 2017  but didn't want  to discuss 
compensation until the claim was settled. 
LV said there will always be a level of inconvenience when something has gone wrong such 
as an escape  of water. However, it acknowledged that the claim could  have been  handled  
better and offered £500 compensation which it said is fair and reasonable.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said she understood from 
her conversations  with Ms A the impact of the claim experience on them.  But she thought 
their offer of compensation is fair in the circumstances.
Ms A disagreed with the investigator, but despite a number of reminders,  has not given any 
reasons for this. Their complaint has been referred  to me, as an ombudsman, to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at LVs handling of Ms A and Mr Ms claim  to see if it has acted within  
the terms of their policy and to see if it has treated  them fairly. Im pleased that all aspects of 
Ms A and Mr Ms claim have been  settled, and this means I have confined  myself to 
consideration of the compensation offered by LV to see if it is fair.
Im pleased that LV has apologised to Ms A and Mr M for the very bad experience  they have 
had during their claim. It is inherent  within any claim involving extensive damage, as 
occurred to Ms A and Mr Ms home  that restoration  will take considerable time. In this 
instance there were  several aspects of the claim, experts were involved, and drying, 
stripping out and repairs had to be carried out. 
However, there were  many instances  of poor,  or no communication in response to Ms As 
contacts. I can understand  that Ms A and Mr M found the contamination of their soft 
furnishings distressing  as this wasnt bound to happen as part of the repairs.  And I think  the 
prolonged stay in alternative accommodation  must  have been very waring in their difficult 
family situation. 
Ref: DRN85130752Our role is not to punish  businesses as we arent  the regulator,  but we do expect businesses  
to offer compensation that gives a reflection of the distress and inconvenience they have 
caused. In this case I think the offer of £500 is fair and reasonable and in line with awards I 
have seen in similar circumstances. I recommend that Ms A and Mr M accept LVs offer of 
£500 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 September 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8513075