K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Zurich Insurance PLC declining  his claims for damage caused by his 
tenants to his property under his landlords  buildings insurance policy.
background
Mr C made  a claim for theft and malicious damage  to his property in 2019.  This is the 
complaint Im dealing  with here.  Mr C said hes unhappy about the way all his previous 
claims have been  dealt with but they are all separate issues  and different claims at different 
times so I cant deal with them all as one and they cant  be part of this complaint.
A claim  was made for damage  and theft by tenants. Zurich declined  a claim for theft of tools  
as this is a buildings policy. It said the door claimed  for was within the policy  excess  limit. 
Finally, it considered the other damage  and declined it because it said the damage wasnt 
caused maliciously. It said there had been  previous claims for damage by previous tenants  
which had been  dealt with. In relation to this complaint it said the damage  wasnt  malicious, 
but the tenant had carried  out changes to the property as part of the tenants  business. 
Unhappy with this Mr C brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He accepted what  Zurich said about the tools  
and the door. In relation  to the damage our investigator accepted  that there was no intention 
to cause harm  to the property. So, he said Zurich had acted reasonably and fairly when it 
declined to deal with the claim.
Mr C didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed on to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has referred  to many different issues with claims that he said havent been  properly 
dealt with by Zurich. He talked about  the claims  Im addressing in this decision but also loss 
of rent, loss of market value (discussed with the broker), surface water problems, and 
rubbish left behind.  I can confirm that Im not looking at these extra points as part of this 
decision. Im only dealing with what I can clearly see has already been part of the complaint 
Zurich has dealt with for Mr C.
Mr C has made a lot of points about his removal of permission for the tenants to live at the 
address. From that point on, he said,  they were there without permission. He said Zurich has 
used the lack of a lease  as an excuse not to deal with the claims.  But I dont agree. I think 
Zurich has dealt with the evidence and situations  Mr C has asked  it to. And Zurich was clear  
in its final response letter  that the damage  wasnt consistent with anything malicious. I 
understand that Mr C doesnt agree but theres no evidence to show that Zurich was wrong 
on this point. The only other details are Mr Cs verbal testimony. I dont think thats enough 
for me to go against what Zurich and its loss adjuster has found.
I agree  with Zurich  that tools cant be claimed for under the buildings  policy and I accept that 
the door claim falls within the policy excess.  Again, theres nothing  here that makes me think  
Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way it has dealt with these points.
Ref: DRN88213832Mr C may have  other valid points. But I can only deal with the complaint in relation to what  I 
can see Zurich has been asked to look at and not all the other points  Mr C has now 
mentioned and all the other claims.  Mr C may wish to reconsider and deal with these 
separately with Zurich for further consideration.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Zurich Insurance PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8821383