K821x#15complaint
Mr P says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Mr P was sold a PPI policy with a store card in 2004. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ps complaint didnt think  FICL explained the terms and 
conditions of the PPI policy clearly  to Mr P. And he didnt think  Mr P wouldve bought the 
policy if it had. FICL  disagrees, so Mr Ps complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Mr P enough  clear information about  the PPI so he could make  an 
informed decision about whether he wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And also from what Ive seen, on balance, I think  if FICL had given Mr P the clear  
information he needed he wouldnt have bought the policy.
Its likely  the policy Mr P was sold wouldnt have covered him for any medical conditions he 
had when he bought it. Mr P has told us and FICL he had a medical condition when he was 
sold the policy. 
Ive looked at the notes FICL  has sent us about  its investigation into Mr Ps complaint. FICL 
says it was unsuccessful  in confirming Mr Ps exact circumstances at the time and therefore 
thinks the PPI was not inappropriate  for Mr P.
But, as Ive said, I think its likely the PPI excluded cover for Mr Ps known medical 
conditions. Mr P has told us about his condition from the beginning and seems  to have been 
consistent in having done so with FICL as well. So, on the basis  of this and the information  
Ive seen (which in terms of FICLs own investigation has been  quite  limited),  I think its likely 
the exclusion in the policy wouldve mattered to Mr P when  he bought the PPI. 
And there was no information about this exclusion on the application form Mr P signed when 
he was sold the PPI policy. So I havent seen  anything to show FICL did enough  to make 
this exclusion clear  to Mr P.
If it had done, and based on the information Ive got, I think its unlikely Mr P wouldve gone 
ahead with the policy if hed known he wasnt likely to have been  covered if hed needed  
time off work because  of his known medical  condition. 
Ref: DRN81764402I think Mr P has lost out because of what FICL  has done wrong and so it should put things 
right.
putting things right
I understand Mr Ps account is closed.
FICL should put Mr P in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. So:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr P wouldve owed when he closed his store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr P owed when he closed his 
account and what  he wouldve  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr P made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr P wouldve owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr P would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr P 
paid more than enough  to clear  him balances,  FICL should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr P paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr P 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mr P what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Ps complaint  and direct  Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN81764403Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8176440