K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the poor service  he received  from J.P. Morgan Europe  Limited  
(trading as Post Office  Card Account).
background
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from the Post Office contact centre when he 
called about a lost card. He was on the phone for over an hour. And he found the persons 
overall tone unacceptable. Mr S said he sometimes has problems remembering his security  
answers. So he kept being passed to different people. And hes unhappy with how he was 
spoken to on some of the calls. So hed like £50 compensation  for the cost of his calls and 
an apology.
The Post Office said Mr S was having  difficulties with his security questions. And itd taken a 
few calls to correctly answer them so it could issue a new card. Mr S has now received his 
card. And The Post Office  said would be happy to accept updated security responses from 
Mr S either in writing  or over the telephone. 
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with the Post Offices  response. So he contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see Mr S hadnt been  able to complete the 
security questions at first. But when he was called back  later that day he was able to pass  
them and order a replacement  card.
Our investigator explained it was necessary for the Post Office to check the identity of the 
person it was speaking  to. And she could see the Post Office had marked  Mr Ss account so 
that he was passed to more experienced call handlers in the future. Although she recognised 
the call had sometimes been difficult she couldnt say the Post Office had acted 
inappropriately. It had to follow  its security procedures.
Mr S didnt agree. He hadnt refused to give his name. And the manager had helped him 
pass the security questions. So hes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration. He wanted to report a lost card. But he had difficulty  
passing the security  questions. And he didnt like the tone of the person he spoke  to. Mr S 
has provided this service with a copy of his initial call to the Post Office. Ive listened  
carefully to the discussion between Mr S and the call handler. And Ive seen the notes of his 
discussions with our service.
Unfortunately the recording  doesnt  have the beginning  of the call. But from what  Ive heard 
the conversation  does  become a little heated. And Mr S becomes upset because  he feels 
the call handler  is talking over him while he is trying to ask for a manager call-back.
Without the entire call I cant say how the conversation reached this point. But I do think it 
couldve been handled a little better. And I can understand why Mr S mightve been upset by 
the persons tone during  parts of the call. Mr S said his follow-up  call with a manager  was 
much better. And he was able to order a replacement card.
Ref: DRN89097542It is important  that businesses check they are dealing with the right person.  Im sure Mr S 
wouldnt want the Post Office to let someone else access his account. So I do think the Post 
Office was right to go through the security questions with Mr S. And to explain it couldnt 
issue a new card until hed successfully completed  the identity check.
Unfortunately businesses are targeted by increasingly sophisticated fraud attempts. So they 
have responded  with detailed security questions. These might  involve an account name and 
password but also additional questions that only the account holder would know  the answer 
to. And I think thats the right approach. I appreciate it can be difficult  to remember  all of the 
security answers. But its important that Mr Ss account is protected.
And I think one of those  security questions might explain  why theres a difference of opinion 
about whether  or not Mr S refused to give his name. I do think its unlikely Mr S would refuse  
to identify himself when calling the Post Office. But, on the call Ive listened  to, Mr S is asked 
for his memorable name. Thats one of the security questions used to confirm his identity. 
So its possible there is some confusion about  whether  Mr S refused to give his actual name 
or couldnt remember his memorable name as part of the security questions.
Mr S has explained he suffers from memory  impairment. So he sometimes  has difficulties 
remembering passwords.  If hes able to provide more details to the Post Office Im sure it will 
try and make reasonable adjustments to help him access his account safely  and securely.
I can see the Post Office  has said Mr S can update his security responses   either in writing 
or over the telephone. And its marked his account  so that hes put through  to more  
experienced call handlers when  he makes  further calls to the Post Office. And I think thats a 
fair and reasonable response.
The Post Office was able to resolve Mr Ss card problem very quickly once  he spoke to a 
manager later in the afternoon and completed  his identity check.  So Im sure these 
measures will help both parties in the future.
While I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint I do understand his frustration. It can be difficult 
to remember numerous security responses. But its also important for businesses to have 
these measures in place to protect against  unauthorised  access. 
I wont be asking the Post Office to do anything more. But Im sure it reviews the outcome of 
all the complaints it receives  to see if it can improve things. And I hope Mr S is able to 
update his password and security questions  so that he doesnt  have  any further problems.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN89097543Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8909754