K820x#14complaint
Mr C says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Cs credit card account when he applied for the card in person. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint because:
 I think NatWest  made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take 
it  although I can understand  why he can no longer remember this. Theres  a section 
on the application form about  PPI with yes and no boxes. The yes box is ticked  and Mr 
C has signed next to this to confirm he wanted PPI.
 NatWest  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for him. Even  if it had recommended the PPI, Im satisfied  it would have been of use to 
Mr C given his circumstances at the time.
 Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mr C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mr C would have made a different decision if better information had been  provided. On 
balance I think he would  still have  taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN84358242my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019. 
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8435824