K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  card application form completed at the 
time. I think its likely  the selection of PPI on the form was computerised  but I think its more 
likely than not that this was added following a discussion. Mr G has signed  the form which 
indicates he wanted the cover and agreed to it. As Mr G was taking out further credit, if he 
didnt want the PPI, I would have expected him to raise this before he signed the application.  
So having  taken everything into account,  I think Halifax  made  it clear  that Mr G didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this now many years later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  from or limits to the PPI cover. Mr G originally told 
us that he was self employed at the time,  and subsequently told us he couldnt  recall these 
matters with accuracy. And thats understandable  as these events happened over 15 years 
ago. The credit card application form records Mr G as being  a builder at the time of the sale, 
but doesnt record whether that was in an employed or a self-employed capacity. In any 
event, Ive read the policy document  and it would have been  no more difficult for a self-
employed person  to make an unemployment  claim than it would have been for an employed 
person. So I dont think Mr Gs employment status  would  have  made the policy  unsuitable.
And I think that Mr G seems to have had a need  for the cover.  I say that because  Mr G told 
us he had no sick pay and no other  means  he could rely on. The policy could have paid out 
for up to 12 months in the event  of a successful claim if he was too ill to work, or if he lost his 
job, so I think Mr G would have found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said but these points dont change my decision.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank  of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund  everything Mr G paid for it. 
Ref: DRN85003162But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mr G back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr G now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8500316