K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy because Liverpool Victoria  Insurance Company Limited (Liverpool Victoria)
has declined  his insurance claim for storm damage.
Any reference to Liverpool Victoria includes its agents.
background
Mr K says there was a storm in March 2019  and the strong winds  damaged the roof of his
garage. Mr K says approximately 12 to 18 months prior to the storm, he had bitumen
corrugated roof sheets  placed on top of the original concrete  sheet roof of his garage.  During
the storm, the corrugated  sheets  were blown off.
Mr K called Liverpool Victoria to make  a claim and they made arrangements  for the damage
to be inspected. Liverpool Victoria  declined  to cover the claim because they said the damage
was not caused by the storm but due to poor workmanship. They relied on the general wear
and tear exclusion to decline the claim.  They said the corrugated roof had not been fixed
correctly to the base  of the garage  roof frame.
Mr K complained to Liverpool Victoria and said they hadnt carried out an adequate
inspection of the damage. He maintains the roof was fitted appropriately and securely.
Mr K complained to our service and the investigator  did not uphold the complaint noting the
inspection report said the roof had not been  secured correctly because the bolts were the
incorrect length, they were not fixed at regular intervals and the wood of the original timber
frame was rotten. They thought it was fair for Liverpool Victoria  to decline the claim.
Mr K disagreed and said if Liverpool Victoria had carried out a thorough inspection, they
would have seen  the roof was attached correctly. Mr K wants  Liverpool Victoria to accept his
insurance claim and fix his roof.
As the matter remains in dispute, it has been referred to me for a decision.
In October, I issued  my provisional decision  and said:
When deciding on insurance claims relating to storm damage,  I consider the below
questions which I will address in turn below. If the answer is yes to all questions, I would
expect Liverpool  Victoria  to accept the claim.
1. can the weather conditions be considered a storm?
Liverpool Victoria has said wind speeds  reached 53 mph during the time in question so they
accept the weather conditions can be considered  a storm. So this point is not in dispute.
2. is the damage typical of storm  damage?
Mr K said his roof was blown off during a storm. I consider  a storms high level wind speeds
is capable of blowing  off a garage roof and it is typical  of the damage a storm might  cause.
3. If so, is it the main  cause of the damage?
I consider the principal  point of dispute is whether  the storm was the main cause of the
damage to the roof. Firstly, it is worth saying  it is not my role or that of this service  to give an
expert opinion  on whether  the roof was properly fixed, my role is to decide whether
Liverpool Victoria has fairly considered Mr Ks claim.
Ref: DRN83360572Liverpool Victoria instructed a third party to inspect the damage to Mr Ks roof. The report
says the damage  was caused by poor workmanship because  the corrugated  roof sheets had
not been fixed correctly and instead they were  put on top of the cement roof sheet. This
meant it was not fixed to the base of the roof. The report also says the corrugated roof
sheets had not been screwed into the joists or timber frame of the roof.
However Mr K said the corrugated roof was fixed to a timber  frame and that frame was fixed
to the top of the concrete roof which was bolted  to the new joists,  not the old joists. Mr K has
provided photos of the timber frame and the bolt fixings. He said he had to remove the
timber frame following  the storm and it was located in the garden at the time of the
inspection for review.
Following Mr Ks concerns about how the inspection  was carried out, our service asked
Liverpool Victoria for their comments. They said in order to securely fix the new timber  frame
to the existing roof frame, the bolts should  be at least 225 mm long and fixed  at regular
intervals. They also said the bolts should protrude on the underside of the roof frame so a
nut and washer  can be fixed in place. They said the bolts used to attach Mr Ks roof were not
long enough  and they are approximately 150 mm long.
This explanation goes  over and above  the original report. If Liverpool Victoria is saying this
demonstrates the workmanship  issue, I wouldve expected the original inspection  report  to
have made  reference  to the same, supported by photographic evidence. However there  is
no mention of these  findings in the original report and it is unclear  whether these additional
findings are from the original report writers, from another party after the inspection or simply
Liverpool Victorias opinion.
These further findings of the corrugated  roof being fixed to the joists undermine the accuracy
of the original report. This new argument  along with the photos Mr K has provided, support
what Mr K has said about how the roof was secured and his comments about the quality of
the examination  at the time of the inspection.
If Liverpool Victoria believes the damage is a result of poor workmanship, firstly,  I would
expect them to provide evidence of industry  approved standards as to how the roof should
have been secured correctly in these circumstances. They  must then demonstrate, by
evidence, how the work  carried  out on Mr Ks roof falls so far below that standard,  that it can
be considered  poor workmanship. I dont think  theyve done that here. In my view, the
photos support  Mr Ks comments  on how the corrugated roof sheets were  attached  to the
roof more  than the report and photos supplied by Liverpool Victoria.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  above, I intend  to uphold Mr Ks complaint and to ask Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited  to settle  Mr Ks claim in line with the rest of the policy terms. 
response to my provisional  decision
Mr K and Liverpool Victoria were invited  for their comments  on the above findings. Mr K 
accepted my provisional decision. Liverpool Victoria responded  by providing copies of 
installation instructions from the two main suppliers of the bitumen corrugated roof sheets. 
They said there is no evidence Mr Ks roof was fixed as instructed. 
Ref: DRN83360573my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mr Ks complaint. 
Liverpool Victoria are raising another new argument which was not previously raised,  namely 
the degree of Mr Ks roof angle and the corresponding  installation requirements. As part of 
their argument, they said the cross  bearers  on Mr Ks roof are too far apart  based  on the 
supplier installation instructions. They also say the incorrect number of fixings were used 
and they were not the correct length. However there is no evidence a further inspection was 
carried out at Mr Ks property meaning  there  are no specific details. Instead  Liverpool 
Victoria have relied solely on pictures taken by a third party  meaning  they can only provide 
approximate estimations.
Even if accept Liverpool Victoria  has shown  poor workmanship such as the cross bearers 
being too far apart, Im not satisfied they have shown that was the dominant cause of the 
damage to the roof, following the storm. On this basis, I dont believe it is reasonable for 
Liverpool Victoria to rely on the workmanship exclusion  to deny Mr Ks claim. To put things 
right, they should settle Mr Ks claim in line with the rest of the policy terms. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
I require Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited to settle Mr Ks claim in line with the 
rest of the policy terms. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8336057