K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society Limited have incorrectly 
reduced his pension pot by removing the benefit of his waiver of premium  policy  for the last 
ten years
background
In 1999 Mr B took out a personal pension policy with Provider C. He also took out waiver of 
premium cover with the pension policy. Some time later Royal  London took over 
responsibility for the pension policy, including the waiver of premium. For ease of reference 
I will refer to Royal London from here on, even if it concerned the actions of Provider  C. 
In early 2009 Mr B was injured,  and unable to work, and after six months  his premiums were 
waived under the waiver of premium insurance. 
Prior to 2019  the annual pension statements Mr B received showed  that the premiums were  
being paid on the pension  policy.
In early 2019 Mr B received his 2018  annual pension statement. It showed  a transfer value 
of £97,705.79, which  was around £25,000 less than the previous years transfer balance of 
£123,011.86. He contacted Royal London to query  this. Royal  London wrote to him on 
22 March 2019  saying it had waived his premiums from 1 November 2009 to 
1 October 2010. It hadnt received any premiums after that. It said that due to an 
administrative error his annual benefit  statements were calculated showing values assuming 
all premiums were  paid to date. This was corrected for the 2018  statement. 
On 26 March Mr B emailed Royal London saying he disagreed with its letter  of 22 March as 
the waiver of premium  product had behaved  exactly as described  to him by the Provider C 
adviser who sold the product to him. He said he wanted the amount taken  from his pension 
pot re-instated with immediate effect.
Royal London treated his email as a complaint. It responded on 9 April 2019. It said:
His premiums had been waived under the waiver cover from 1 November 2009 to 1 
October 2010.
Once the waiver had stopped, it wrote to him about whether he wanted  to keep paying 
his monthly premiums.
As it didnt receive a reply, it then wrote to him to say his policy  had been made paid up 
but due to an administrative error it didnt change his policy to paid up. 
This meant the benefit statements up until the 2017 statement were  based on premiums 
being paid. 
The 2018 statement  (received in early 2019) was the correct one, as premiums hadnt 
been paid since  2010.
It concluded by saying it was unable to honour  the incorrect value provided in the 2017 
statement but in view of the error which caused  the incorrect statements it would pay him 
£1,000 compensation. 
Mr B refused  the compensation offer and brought his complaint to us. 
Ref: DRN84008052Our investigator thought the evidence  suggested that Royal  London had written to him about 
keeping up his payments and about  the policy being made paid up. But there was no dispute 
that he was sent letters  with the incorrect fund value. Hed experienced a loss of expectation. 
She thought  the offer of £1,000 was a fair outcome. 
Mr B didnt agree. He thought that no mistake was made when his premiums continued to be 
paid until his 60th birthday   that was what was supposed to happen as shown by the sale 
documents for the waiver  of premium insurance  that he provided to us.
Our investigator said her assessment had taken into account the documents provided to him 
by his financial advisor. She also clarified  that the waiver of premium policy  hadnt  continued 
to pay the premiums until his 60th birthday. And she provided an extract from the terms and 
conditions of the waiver  policy.
Mr B asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  He said he:
Hadnt seen  the terms and conditions  shed provided which seemed to be at odds with 
the key features  document supplied by the adviser when hed sold the policy.
Thought he mayve  been the victim of a mis-sale  or Royal  London was trying  to get out 
of a disadvantageous  sale.
On 6 March 2020 I issued  a provisional decision. My provisional findings were  as follows:
Mr B is very disappointed  that Royal London  has reduced his pension  pot by a significant  
amount. Thats  completely understandable.  But Im afraid Im going  to have to disappoint 
him, as Im not going  to tell Royal London  that it must pay the increased amount. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr Bs fundamental complaint is that the benefit  statements he received prior to early 2019 
reflected the correct  operation of the waiver  of premium policy  and that Royal London  had no 
right to change that. That is, the premiums were paid by the waiver of premiums  policy  and 
there was no administrative error.  
It might be helpful if I indicate  that where the waiver of premium  was operating under the 
policy, this didnt mean that the premiums were  still being paid. It meant  that Royal London 
would calculate  the benefit due under the policy as if the premiums  had been paid. 
The first question I need to answer is should  the payment of premiums have been waived 
under the policy  until Mr B turned 60, as he argues?  Im satisfied that the premiums 
shouldnt have been. Section D of the personal pension policy document  deals with waiver of 
premium. Section D.6 provides that the waiver  of premium will terminate where the insurer  is 
satisfied that the policyholder is sufficiently recovered to resume  work in the policyholders 
occupation (whether  or not work  has been  resumed)  or that the policyholder has taken up or 
continued with any other occupation.
Mr B has told us that he returned  to work  in April 2010, although not in his usual occupation. 
I dont think it matters  that the work  wasnt in his usual  occupation.  Occupation  is defined in 
the policy at Section E as being the type of work in which  the policyholder is engaged. So 
the policy doesnt operate to waive premiums  where the person isnt able to work  in their 
usual occupation,  but only where  they are not able to work at all. This means that when Mr B 
returned to work in April 2010 his claim for waiver of premium stopped. This means that Im 
satisfied that Royal  London was entitled  to stop treating the premiums  as if theyd been paid 
when it did, which was 1 May 2010. I note that the final response letter to Mr B said that the 
waiver of premium had operated to 1 October 2010 but Im satisfied that this was incorrect, 
Ref: DRN84008053and the correct date is 1 May 2010.  Royal London has confirmed  that the paid-up value of 
the policy is based on premiums being  paid until 1 May 2010. 
Royal London has told us that it wrote to Mr B on 11 May 2010. It has provided a copy of the 
letter that was correctly addressed, along with a screenshot from Mr Bs records showing 
that the letter was sent. Based on this, I think it is more likely than not that Royal London did 
send it. Among other things, the letter thanks Mr B for informing it that he has returned to 
work, and says that the waiver of premiums has stopped with the last premium waived being 
the premium due on 1 May 2010.  It asked  him to complete a direct debit mandate if he 
wished to continue  to make pension contributions. Finally, it said that if it didnt hear from 
him in 21 days,  it would make the policy paid-up,  meaning his retirement benefits would be 
reduced. A response  wasnt  received, so the policy was made paid-up in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
It seems  that Mr B didnt  get that letter, or doesnt recall  getting that letter.  When  he brought 
his complaint to us he told us that after experiencing his fall in February 2009 the waiver of 
premiums commenced from 1 November 2009. He says he continued to make claims when 
requested under the waiver. He recalls the last of these requests came in February  2010.  He 
tells us that when the requests for claims stopped he assumed  that as hed been 
incapacitated for more  than a year the claim had been treated as paid-up and premiums 
would continue to be paid until his 60th birthday. 
I appreciate that the number of years  that have passed  might have affected Mr Bs ability  to 
recall events. And he has also told us that he never  received  a policy  document  from 
Royal London. But it seems likely  to me that he was aware that beginning work again was an 
event that affected  the waiver of premium,  since otherwise there wouldnt have been any 
reason for him to notify Royal London that he had started work again. And I think  it more  
likely than not that any claim form wouldve made him aware that he needed to do this. For 
these reasons I think that Mr B shouldve reasonably been aware that starting  work  again 
would end the waiver of premium, and that if he wanted his pension  contributions  to 
continue, he would need to make the contributions,  even if he didnt actually receive  the May 
2010 letter.
And I cant hold Royal London  responsible for Mr B not receiving the letter, since as Ive said 
above, Im satisfied based on the evidence, that its more likely than not it was sent to him at 
the correct address.
Although I dont think that the Royal London has done anything wrong in ceasing the waiver 
of premium in mid 2010, it is plain that it issued incorrect pension statements for nearly ten 
years showing  a higher  balance  than Mr B was actually entitled to. Even though  Ive said 
above that I think Mr B shouldve known that the waiver of premium had stopped, I dont 
think this means he would have known the statements were incorrect. He mayve just looked 
at the bottom line, or the total,  so to speak. So I do think he has suffered a loss of 
expectation, as hell be getting less than he expected.
 And it is a reasonably  significant loss of expectation  in that his pension pot declined  by 
some £25,000 (assuming most of that decline was related to the recalculation  of value after 
the effect of the waiver of premium after 1 May 2010 was removed). Royal London  has 
offered £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience arising from that loss of expectation and I 
think that is fair. It is more  than a token amount, and recognises the very real upset caused 
to Mr B by its error. I appreciate Mr B has already rejected this amount, as he wanted 
Royal London to honour the value it had given him in previous years. But as Ive said,  Im not 
prepared to tell Royal London to do that, because Mr B isnt actually entitled to that amount. 
Ref: DRN84008054So although  it will disappoint him, and Im sorry for that, I only propose to tell Royal London  
to pay him the £1,000 it has already offered. 
Mr B has also said that if the policy didnt  operate to pay his premiums until his 60th birthday, 
he was mis-sold the policy.  Im afraid  I cant deal with the mis-selling  complaint in this 
decision. This is because  it is a new complaint  that needs to be made  to Royal  London. But 
it might  be helpful if I say that the key features document, which  Mr B has provided to us, 
isnt for the pension  that is being  complained  about  here. The document  he has provided  is 
for a stakeholder pension, and the complaint  concerns  a personal pension policy. It may be 
that the key features document relates to the other  policy  Mr B had with Royal London that 
isnt part of this complaint.
My provisional decision was that The Royal London Mutual Insurance  Society Limited must 
pay Mr B £1,000 for his distress.
Royal London accepted the findings in my provisional decision.  Mr B didnt. He had a 
number of comments. Ive summarised these as follows:
My provisional decision makes no reference to the evidence  that shows  the waiver of 
premium was behaving exactly as it was sold to him when it continued to pay his 
premiums up to his 60th birthday. 
My statement  in the provisional findings  about how the waiver of premium operated 
(benefits calculated as if premiums  were paid rather than premiums actually being 
paid) was incredible and merits regulatory  scrutiny since it appeared audited  funds 
were being swollen by phantom funds.
Mr B accepts  he provided a key features illustration from a Stakeholder Pension,  but 
says it was what was provided to him in relation to the pension in dispute, and is the 
information on which he based his whole understanding of the way the waiver of 
premium performed. 
Mr B didnt  receive the May 2010  letter saying the waiver of premiums  had ceased on 
his return to work. If he had he wouldve complained, since  its contents  were contrary 
to the basis on which he was sold the policy, and the letter also isnt accurate since  
the premiums continued to be paid until December 2018.
If the information in the letter is inaccurate (because the premiums continued to be 
paid) and Mr B maintains he never received  the letter, the balance of probability 
should lead me to the conclusion that the letter was never  sent. 
Given Royal London had previously said a copy of the May 2010  letter  didnt exist, he 
doubts its veracity.
Contrary to paragraph 8 of the findings  that says he didnt receive a policy document, 
he did, but it doesnt mention the WOP. 
Royal London should be able to produce  evidence that hed informed it that hed 
returned to work.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the points made by 
Mr B in response to my provisional decision. The key finding in my provisional  decision was 
that Mr B wasnt entitled to the benefit  of the waiver  of premium  policy  after he returned  to 
work in April 2010. While I dont doubt  the sincerity and strength of feeling of Mr Bs 
comments, they havent changed my mind.  Ill explain  why.
Pension operating  exactly as sold to Mr B
Ref: DRN84008055Mr B says Ive made no mention that the waiver  of premium was operating  exactly as sold to 
him when  it continued  to pay his premiums up to his 60th birthday. There are two elements to 
Mr Bs assertion;
(a)That the premiums  were paid as a matter of fact; and
(b)That the premiums  being paid were  in line with the policy as sold to him.
Theres no dispute that Mr B was issued with statements that showed  a balance as if the 
premiums were being paid. But I dont accept  that the premiums were being  paid as a matter  
of fact. This is because, as the policy document says, where the waiver  of premium operates  
the benefits payable is calculated as if the premiums had been paid. I understand Mr B finds  
that explanation incredible, and merits regulatory  scrutiny. My role is to resolve individual  
disputes, Im not the regulator. Mr B is welcome  to raise the issue  with the Financial Conduct  
Authority if he wishes. 
I should add that even  if the premiums had been paid, it wouldnt make a difference to my 
decision. This is because  I dont  think  Mr B was entitled to continue to claim under the 
waiver of premium after he returned  to work  in April 2010. Royal  London are entitled  to only 
pay Mr B the amount  of benefit  he is due on the basis that the policy was made paid up in 
mid 2010. That is the basis  it has calculated  his balance on after it identified the error. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  I cant deal with a complaint that the waiver of premium 
was mis-sold to Mr B as he will need  to make a separate complaint about that, if he wishes 
to. 
I understand Mr B will find this difficult, but what is relevant  here is the policy  actually 
operated as set out in its terms, and not Mr Bs sincere belief  as to how it operated.  
But I can say, in the context of this complaint, that I cant  agree  that Mr B was provided  with 
a key features  illustration  from a Stakeholder Pension at the time he took out his personal 
pension in 1999. Although  I dont doubt the sincerity of Mr Bs belief, I think it is more  likely 
than not that his recollection is incorrect, as stakeholder  pensions  werent introduced  until 
2001.
The May 2011 letter
Mr B puts a great deal of reliance on this letter not having been sent, and being inaccurate.  
I can understand Mr Bs suspicion  about  the letter, given it came to light after 
Royal Londons first search for relevant information.  He thinks the fact that it contains 
inaccurate information and that he doesnt recall  receiving it, means that it wasnt sent. 
In my experience, businesses do at times locate information after a further search, 
unfortunate as this is. Ive no reason to think that the copy isnt genuine, given it is in the 
same terms  as the template previously provided.  It also indicates that Mr B has recently 
returned to work. Mr B expects that Royal  London  would be able to provide proof that hed 
told it he returned to work.  But Mr B himself has told me he returned to work in April 2010, so 
that further supports that it is more  likely  that not the letter is genuine.  
Ive also no reason to think  that it wasnt sent,  as Ive seen a screenshot  to that effect, 
although I accept  that Mr B may not have received it. But as Ive said in my provisional 
decision, I think that even if Mr B didnt receive the letter, at that time Mr B realised, or 
shouldve realised the significance of his return to work for the waiver  of premium, as 
otherwise there wouldve  been no reason to notify Royal  London that hed done so. In other  
Ref: DRN84008056words, Mr B should reasonably have known that his return to work meant that the waiver of 
premium would stop, and hed need to decide  whether to resume  paying the premiums 
again. 
After Mr B said that he had received a policy document when Id said he hadnt, I asked him 
for a copy. Mr B was able to give me the one page  schedule to the policy  document. He says 
he never received  a copy of the policy itself.  Royal London has said that while it cant 
evidence that Mr B was provided with a copy, it was standard practice to put the policy 
schedule inside the cover  of the policy document before sending it out. 
I cant be sure that Mr B received a copy of the policy  itself.  But I think  it is more likely than 
not that it was sent to him, given the standard practice of the industry and Royal  London. 
I appreciate the time and trouble Mr B has taken  to comment  on my provisional decision. 
And I understand that his pension pot being considerably smaller than he expected is 
distressing for him, and has real consequences. But Im not going to tell Royal  London to 
pay Mr B a balance that reflects  the operation of the waiver of premium until his 60th 
birthday, because Im satisfied that he wasnt entitled to claim on the waiver of premium  after 
he returned to work,  and Mr Bs comments havent changed my mind.  Im very sorry to 
disappoint him. 
In my provisional decision I said that I thought  £1,000 was fair compensation for the distress  
Mr B felt from his loss of expectation. I still think that is fair, for the reasons I set out there,  so 
I dont propose to change  it. I understand that Mr B voided the cheque  and returned it to 
Royal London. If that is the case,  Royal London will need to make  suitable arrangements to 
pay the compensation to Mr B. Given the potential difficulties in depositing a cheque  at the 
present time, I would expect Royal London  to agree  a suitable method with Mr B. 
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited must pay Mr B 
£1,000 for his distress. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8400805