K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) changed the terms of their 
travel insurance policy. Theyre also unhappy that the premium  they were  asked to pay was 
higher than originally  quoted. 
background
Mr and Mrs G had the benefit of a travel insurance  policy as part of the type of account Mr G 
has with a Building Society (the building society). An additional annual  premium  is paid for a 
trip extension upgrade  and declared  pre-existing conditions.
UKI sent Mr G a policy renewal notice  on 21 January 2019,  reminding him that the policy 
upgrades he and Mrs G bought the previous year were due to expire on 19 February  2019.  It 
confirmed that the cost of the same  upgrades  for the following year would be £192.50  
which was around  £27 more than they had been the year before.  
Mr G called to renew the upgrades and was provided a higher quote; £257.50. UKI 
explained that as Mr and Mrs G were over 70 at the point of renewal, they would need  to buy 
an age extension upgrade, which increased the premium by a further £65.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs G complained to us. Our investigator didnt uphold  their complaint. Mr 
and Mrs G disagree so their complaint has been  passed to me to consider  everything afresh  
and to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
Insurers set the premium that they wish to charge for accepting  certain  risks. And when 
calculating insurance  premiums insurers will take into account a range of factors  and will 
consider details about what theyre  insuring. So with travel  insurance policies these are 
things like the risk of having to cancel - or cut short - a holiday through illness,  covering 
medical treatment abroad and having to repatriate  the beneficiaries of the policy home.  
Its not uncommon for insurers  to give different weighting to certain risks and this will be 
considered as part of its underwriting criteria.  Insurers also offer policies on different terms 
with differing levels of benefits, exclusions and limits  and different excesses. And these will 
all affect the cost of the policy being offered. 
However, I have considered whether  UKI made any mistakes when providing the original 
quote to Mr G by charging more  than he and Mrs G paid for the policy  the previous year.
Im satisfied that it hasnt;  the additional amounts it charged for the medical conditions that 
had been declared for Mrs G (£132.50),  the trip extension (£60)  and the age extension  
endorsement (costing £65) had been  calculated and applied in accordance with the correct  
underwriting criteria. 
In 2018 UKI took the decision  to ask policyholders  who had the benefit of the policy through  
this particular account provided by the building society to pay for an age extension  upgrade  
Ref: DRN88634032once they reached  the age of 70. Previously the age extension  only had to be paid once one 
of the beneficiaries reached the age of 75. 
Mr G has said increasing their premium by £65 because he and his wife were  both over 70 
when the term was changed amounts to age discrimination. Its not our role to say whether a 
business has acted  unlawfully  or not  thats a matter for the Courts.  Our role is to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  In order to decide that we have to take 
into account:
a)relevant law and regulations;
b)relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards;
c)relevant codes of practice; and
d)(where appropriate)  what  we consider to have been good industry practice  at the 
relevant time.
So, although  itd be for the Courts to say whether  or not Mr and Mrs G have been 
discriminated against because of their age under the Equality Act 2010  (the Act), Im 
required to take this into account  as its relevant when  deciding whats  fair and reasonable in 
this particular case. 
Under the Act its not unlawful  for a business to treat someone unfavourably on the grounds 
of their age when providing  financial  services   which includes insurance  if a risk 
assessment has been undertaken (in so far as it relates to the persons age and its carried 
out by reference to information which is relevant to the assessment of risk and from a source 
on which it is reasonable to rely). 
UKI says it did carry out a risk assessment and a full analysis was completed as part of its 
pricing review. It says its unable to provide  us with a copy  of that analysis as its 
commercially sensitive  but the focus  of the review concerned loss ratio by age. 
However, it has provided us with statistical data from a leading British  trade  association  for 
insurers from 2018. This data is based on industry  information. So Im persuaded a Court  
would likely  find that its from a source  which is reasonable for UKI to rely on. It shows  that 
between the ages of 70 and 75, theres a significant increase in the cost of the average claim 
and industry average  premium. 
So as the information relates  to age and relevant to the risk assessment undertaken, Im 
also persuaded that a Court is likely to conclude that UKIs decision to reduce the age by 
which it wont provide  travel insurance  (for someone with this particular account) from 75 to 
70  unless they buy an age extension upgrade - is permitted under the Act. And overall, I 
dont think that decision is unfair  or unreasonable, particularly given that the industry data 
from 2018 supports  the cost of the average claim increases the older  someone is.  
Ive taken into account what Mr G says about information thats readily  available  in the public 
domain which  supports  life expectancy in the UK in recent years stands at 79.6 years for 
men and 82.9 years  for women,  with the healthy  living age also seeing an upward  trend. 
This has led people  past conventional retirement age to continue  to fully enjoy travelling. He 
also says increases in claims  since 2017 are mostly attributed to flight and weather-related 
cancellations and there isnt any credible  evidence that age related medical factors have  had 
or are having a major  impact. That may so, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont 
think UKI has unreasonably relied on data provided  by a leading  British trade association for 
insurers from 2018 showing that between the ages of 70 and 75 theres a significant 
Ref: DRN88634033increase in the cost of the average claim made on travel insurance  policies and the industry 
average premium. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr and Mrs G say they were  given misleading information 
about the cost of the policy. It isnt disputed  that when UKI sent Mr G the renewal  notice on 
21 January 2019  it didnt  include the cost of the age extension in the quote.
However, when quoting the premium  for the forthcoming year it did say that the cost was 
based  on the same  type of upgrade you chose last year  in other words, the trip 
extension upgrade and cover  for Mrs Gs existing medical conditions. 
I accept that letter didnt mention anything about contacting  UKI to include and pay for an 
age extension  and the renewal notice did detail his date of birth. But the building  society 
had written to Mr G a couple of months prior, in October 2018,  which  confirmed that it was 
lowering the age requirement  for the age extension upgrade from 75 to 70 years from 
3 January 2019 and provided information about  how to arrange  the upgrade, if relevant. I 
dont know if this letter was received  but its addressed correctly  so I think it probably  was. 
And, given  their ages,  I think  Mr and Mrs G ought  reasonably have been aware that they 
were required  to buy an age extension upgrade before the renewal took place  even though 
it wasnt set out in the renewal notice. 
So, I dont think UKI has done anything wrong in this particular case.  
Further, its worth  mentioning that Mr G did contact  UKI before the policy was due to renew 
and was told about the need to purchase  an age extension upgrade, increasing the renewal 
quote by £65. So Mr and Mrs G were aware of the increased cost before the renewal date.  
They didnt need to accept the revised  quote  and they were  free to shop  around  for a more  
competitive one. I understand thats  what they did and didnt renew any of the upgrades  for 
the travel  insurance  in February 2019.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept  or reject  my decision  before 14 February 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8863403