K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Miss B complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op)  misadvised them  
about the continued suitability of their payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr P and Miss B took out a PPI policy to cover  their mortgage repayments in 2006.  
In 2012 Mr P says he changed employment  and was working  two jobs.  He says he spoke to 
The Co-op to inform it of this and to gain assurance that this wouldnt affect his ability to 
claim under the unemployment aspect of the policy. Mr P says he was assured it wouldnt 
have stopped him from claiming, but Mr P now thinks this is incorrect.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr P and Miss Bs complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr P and Miss B 
disagree, so the case has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This isnt a complaint about  the mis-selling of PPI. Its a complaint about advice Mr P says 
he was given in relation  to the suitability of the policy some six years  after the policy  started, 
when Mr Ps circumstances  changed.   Mr P says he was given inaccurate  information about 
the policy in 2012 when  he started working  in two jobs. He says he was told this wouldnt  
affect his ability to claim for unemployment. Mr P says it wouldve affected his ability  to claim 
if hed only lost one of his jobs and he wants a refund of the premiums  he paid since then.  
The Co-op has provided a large number of documents about the administration  of the policy,  
including all its contact notes with Mr P. They are comprehensive, but there is no evidence  of 
any contact from either  Mr P or Miss B enquiring about the impact of Mr Ps change  in 
employment in 2012. The adjudicator asked Mr P whether he had a record of the time and 
date of when he spoke to someone at The Co-op,  or their name, but Mr P didnt have this 
information. 
On the limited information I have, I cant safely say that Mr P either contacted The Co-op in 
relation to this matter,  or that The Co-op  gave  Mr P incorrect  advice.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr P and Miss Bs complaint  so it follows that The Co-operative  Bank Plc 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8852344