K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bradford & Bingley plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out the PPI policy in 1988 in a meeting at the same time as they applied  
for a mortgage. The policy  was in Mr Ds sole name and gave him accident  and sickness  
cover. They  paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley  had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs H that the PPI was optional, and they 
had to agree  to take it out. 
Mr and Mrs H say they werent aware  PPI was optional. I cant know what was said in the 
meeting but Ive thought  carefully about what Mr and Mrs H have told us, and looked at all 
the available  paperwork. 
The mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs H signed shows they indicated that they 
wanted PPI for Mr H. They selected accident  and sickness protection and £200  of monthly 
cover. In the same section of the form there was the option to decline PPI saying If cover is 
NOT required, please indicate with a cross in the box.  So overall,  I think  the balance of 
evidence shows Bradford & Bingley  made it clear PPI was optional  and Mr and Mrs H 
chose to take it out for Mr H.
 
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  recommend the policy for Mr H to Mr and Mrs H so it didnt have to 
check it was right for him. But it had to give them enough information so they could  make  an 
informed decision about whether they wanted  to buy it.
Its possible the information the society gave  Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policy  if theyd 
received better information. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances  at the time and the policys  
terms and conditions.
Mr H wasnt affected by any of the things, such as a pre-existing medical condition or 
type of employment, which limited  the policys main  benefits. As he couldve benefitted 
Ref: DRN86234792from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely he needed better information about  the 
policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr H says he was entitled to three  months  sick pay but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this, and for much  longer. At the time of the sale it offered accident  and 
sickness cover  for an unlimited period of time. Hes told us he had savings worth  around 
six months salary  but the PPI would have  meant he could use them to cover  other  living 
expenses whilst  not working,  or to keep them intact for their future needs. Mr H has also 
said he had other  protection policies in place at the time but he hasnt provided any more  
detail than this, so without knowing more (such  as what events they covered, the sum 
they paid out and if there was a deferral period) I cant  fairly conclude  it meant  he didnt 
have a need for PPI. Mr and Mrs H were borrowing quite a large sum of money over a 
number of years  secured  against  their home. The impact  of missing  repayments would 
have been significant for them. So I think the PPI wouldve been  useful  for Mr and Mrs H 
if Mr H was sick or had an accident.
-I dont know when  during the sale the society made clear the cost of the policy.  But it 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8623479