K820x#14complaint
Mr H, Mr T and Miss V complain as co-directors of D, a management  company that 
Towergate Underwriting  Group Limited  mis-sold  a block property owners  insurance  policy  to 
D. Ill refer to them collectively as D.
background
The policy covers a development of a small block of apartments and houses.  It was bought 
through Towergate. Around the time of renewal in April 2016, D sought assurances from 
Towergate that any damage  caused by escape  of oil would be covered. This was in view of 
the fact that there were  several large  fuel tanks  on the property. Towergate sought answers 
from the underwriter and relayed these to a service company acting  on behalf of D. D say 
that relying on those  assurances they renewed the policy.
In July 2017 following a torrential downpour several  oil tanks supplying heating oil were 
flooded. This led to a considerable quantity  of oil escaping and causing damage  to the 
surrounding area. D made a claim and, in the course of dealing with that claim the insurer  
said it wouldnt pay for the wider contamination of the surrounding land. This is because  it 
said it wasnt covered under the policy. It advised  that damage  caused by escape  of oil was 
restricted to buildings  only in accordance  with the definition in the policy. This included  
landscaping and fuel tanks but not the land.  D has made a separate  complaint about  the 
claim itself to the insurer.
D says that, if the claim isnt covered in full, then Towergate is responsible for misleading it, 
so it should cover the part of the claim the insurer wont pay for. Towergate says firstly that D 
were entitled  to believe the insurers  assurances  regarding cover.  It further says that while it 
recognises that such policies wouldnt normally cover contaminated land outside the 
buildings, it believes the way the policy is drafted means that the insurer  should cover the 
entire claim.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think  there  was a mis-sale of the policy 
here nor did I think that even if Towergate had given  more explicit advice about the 
limitations of cover,  that D would have  bought  a different policy.
Towergate had no further comment to make  on my decision.
Mr T responded on behalf of D. Ill address his comments  in my findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
I am concerned here solely with the question of whether there  was a mis-sale of the policy. 
The complaint against the insurer is being  dealt with separately. Whether the information 
was given at the time of the initial sale or before renewal I dont think  is relevant. A separate  
contract will arise  each  year and if D were concerned whether the policy  is still suitable it 
was for the broker in this case to address those concerns
Ref: DRN87096912Prior to renewal the concerns  raised and the underwriters answers to those  are
Concern: the definition of buildings in the policy does  not extend  to the underground 
tanks.
Response: Fuel tanks are covered in the definition. Escape  of oil is an insured  peril  
[refers to the section  in the policy].
Concern: that pollution from the tanks  is excluded unless caused by a sudden and 
identifiable event,
Response: Tanks should be checked and maintained to avoid any gradual  leakage
Concern: that they werent  covered for the cost of locating the source of a leak 
Response: See Basis  of Settlement Adjustments  [page in policy]. Trace  and Access 
[on page in policy].
Concern: that theyre not covered  for statutory environmental clean-up costs
Response: Indemnity is provided  if the incident  is sudden identifiable unintended and 
unexpected as per the policy terms and conditions, this could include statutory 
environmental clean-up costs but will depend  on the specific circumstances.
The insurer  concluded its response by saying:
 Please note we cannot confirm or deny indemnity based solely on the answers provided 
herein, in all instances you must refer to the full cover terms conditions and exceptions of the 
policy wording and associated policy schedule.
Towergate also wrote to Ds agent:
 [The insurers] have  assured me that there is no issue  with the underground oil tank and 
that all clean-up costs will be honoured under the policy regardless the cause of damage to 
the tank.
As far as I can see, the actual policy sold was a standard property owners  insurance.  The 
only issue is, whether, given the responses on the questions  about fuel tanks, Towergate 
could or should  have  done anything else, like find a different policy, or advised  about  the fact 
that it wouldnt have  covered  the surrounding  land.
Towergate says that in its view because of the way the policy is written, surrounding  land is 
covered. But this view is based on an interpretation of the policy that the insurer  doesnt 
accept. And Towergate  admitted to D that the insurance industry norm is that such policies 
dont cover oil contamination  for surrounding  land.  So if by chance the policy could be 
interpreted so as to cover surrounding land, I dont think that was Towergates intention  on 
agreeing a renewal  of the policy.
I dont think, from the way the concerns were set out to Towergate,  that any specific  advice 
was sought regarding what particularly happened at the time the claim was made. The 
concerns were raised about coverage  if the fuel tanks leaked oil. The questions asked about 
fuel tank coverage before renewal were hypothetical  and the underwriters answers were 
strictly correct.  As the policy was being  sold through  Towergate, it, rather than the insurer 
should have explained the policy. And I can well understand  that Towergates  summary 
interpretation of what the insurer had said  that all clean-up costs will be covered  
reassured D.
So should  Towergate have explained to D about  the limitation in coverage, when it had 
asked about the fuel tanks? It should  certainly have known about what usually is or isnt 
Ref: DRN87096913covered in such circumstances. But, whilst it is clear now that D hadnt been  aware  of the 
limitation, that isnt evident from the clarifications  sought. It is knowledge that comes  with the 
benefit of hindsight and I understand that in the circumstances of this loss, the damage  was 
much wider  than could have been  anticipated.  So at best I cant  say that Towergate should 
have explained  the limitation in coverage of the policy.
D say:
That these conclusions cannot be reconciled with the facts accepted by both D and 
Towergate. Towergate accepts that it was asked about  ground contamination. The 
notion that it was not asked about ground  contamination comes  solely  from the 
ombudsman.
It was made clear in the complaint that the reassurances about  the extent of the 
policy cover  were  sought precisely because one of its directors  had become aware of 
the fact that oil companies were refusing to deliver  to underground oil tanks  because  
of a case in which  an underground tank had contaminated surrounding  ground  and 
water.
When the ombudsman accepts that D sought  assurances from Towergate that any 
damage caused by escaped  oil from UNDERGROUND  fuel tanks would be covered 
and when the Ombudsman has evidence  that Towergate itself summarised one of 
D"s concerns as cover for statutory environmental clean-up  costs, how can it be 
concluded that D was not seeking reassurance specifically about the cost of cleaning 
up contaminated ground? In fact Ds concern had not been expressed so narrowly.  
The concern about which reassurance was sought  was the cost of cleaning  up all 
contamination caused by escaped oil.
I appreciate that D wanted assurance from Towergate that all clean-up costs  would  be 
covered. But if they werent satisfied with Towergates framing  of its questions  and the 
answers they got, they could have  asked for it to make further enquiries. I bear in mind  that 
the communications with Towergate were  made  by a service company who D had instructed 
at the time.  
But statutory environmental  clean-up  costs are a different issue  from the clean-up costs of all 
oil contamination on the property owners land. Such costs relate to public liability for 
pollution eg of other peoples land or the water table. And the response given was that in 
certain circumstances  the policy would cover  such clean-up costs. As far as Im aware  D 
hasnt had such a claim made  against  it so the issue doesnt arise.
I further said in my provisional  decision:
But if I were  to accept that Towergate could have  been clearer  in its explanation or sought 
more advice from the underwriter, would D have sought to buy a different policy, or purchase 
extra cover? Most residential  policies cover escape of oil (or liquid fuel) limited to damage to 
buildings and Im not convinced  that D would have been able to buy a different policy. Or 
that it would  have sought to buy a different policy, bearing in mind  that I dont think  it had the 
particular circumstances  of this claim in mind  at the time of renewal of the policy.
Ref: DRN87096914D say:
In fact Towergate could not have been clearer in its explanation. There is no lack of 
clarity in saying that "all clean-up  costs will be covered". It is not opaque or 
ambiguous, it is simply wrong  and misleading.
The ombudsman is not convinced that D could have  bought  the necessary cover. 
This is also wrong. Enquiry would  inform the ombudsman that a broker  would offer 
cover against environmental  contamination up to a million  pounds for an annual 
premium of £1,845.86  - a great deal less in total than the amount each individual 
leaseholder has been obliged to find to cover the uninsured  loss and a great  deal 
less than the increase in the annual insurance premium that has been  required 
following the event.  This would certainly  have been  obtained  by the directors of D. 
This gives the context  in which  it is wrong to assume that D could not or would  not 
have sought and obtained appropriate  insurance for underground oil tanks.
In all complaints of mis-sale our approach is that I have to consider, in the event that the 
policyholder believes  they were misled into buying the policy  whether it would have taken 
any other action had they had the full facts before them. So in the context that Towergate 
said that all clean-up costs will be covered when in fact they werent I have considered 
whether D could have  taken  different  action.  Here D say that they would have bought  a 
policy which  gives cover  for environmental clean-up costs.
I have researched such policies myself.  They are generally available for businesses that are 
at risk of causing pollution  to the environment in the course of their business.  And as Ive 
said environmental clean-up is a matter of public liability which would generally, for 
residential policyholders  be covered in the circumstances  set out by the insurer. I dont think  
it would  be fair and reasonable to suggest that Towergate should've advised D to buy extra  
coverage for environmental protection outside the terms of the policy.
So overall I maintain  the views set out in my provisional decision. I dont think  there was a 
mis-sale of the policy here. Those views  in so far as they are set out above now form part of 
this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, Mr T and 
Miss V to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2019.
.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8709691