K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Miss C complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) handled their 
home insurance claim unfairly.
background
Unfortunately, Mr P and Miss Cs home  was burgled  in January 2018. They reported several 
areas of damage  in relation to entry and exit points, including some  attempted entry points.
Mr P and Miss C also lost quite a lot of jewellery items, cash, trainers and toiletries. Some  of 
the jewellery items were described as having sentimental value, having been  passed down 
from relatives.
RSA covered part of the claim,  but Mr P and Miss C were unhappy with the settlement 
received in relation to the jewellery and the other damage to their home.  They were also 
unhappy with the time taken in handling the claim and in not being given RSAs complaint 
procedure when it was requested.
RSA investigated  Mr P and Miss Cs concerns  and explained that the jewellery settlement 
was in line with the policy terms and conditions.  It said the decking  repair  quote  received  had 
showed there was damage caused by rot, which isnt covered.
In relation to the rear patio door, RSA said the inspection  report its contractor provided said 
the damage was wear  and tear. Although it offered  to consider independent evidence if Mr P 
and Miss C obtained their own report.
And in relation to the cash, RSA said as it related  to wages,  theyd  require sight  of wage 
slips to support the claim.
RSA accepted the claim couldve been handled better and sent Mr P and Miss C a cheque 
for £100 to compensate for that.
Mr P and Miss C remained unhappy  with the settlement for the jewellery. And they felt the 
patio door damage  wasnt typical of that caused by wear and tear; because  of its nature and 
location. Mr P and Miss C also explained that the quote saying the decking  was rotten 
related to the joists underneath, and that it was the top part the burglars damaged.
RSA maintained its position in relation to the jewellery, door and decking but agreed to settle  
the claim for cash without  the wage slips. This was paid up to the policy limit of £250.
Because the other issues couldnt  be agreed  on Mr P and Miss C brought  their complaint to 
our service.
An investigator here looked into the complaint. They felt RSA was entitled to rely on its 
contractors report which concluded  the damage  to be wear and tear. And they agreed the 
decking quote referred to rot, which is excluded  under the insurance policy.
The investigator also explained that insurers can often negotiate discounts with jewellers so 
if a consumer requests  a cash settlement  that can be reduced accordingly. The investigator 
explained where the policy terms and conditions covered how claims can be settled.
Ref: DRN84124562Mr P and Miss C didnt agree with the investigator. They said RSA renewed  the policy 
without their consent and that this matter hadnt been addressed. Mr P and Miss C also 
disagreed with the other parts of the assessment  for the same  reasons already given. In 
reference to the jewellery, Mr P and Miss C said one of the items is available  for sale online 
for £900, but that RSA valued it at £500 and then offered the reduced amount of just £300.
Mr P and Miss C say thats typical of the rest of the jewellery claim and just isnt fair.
The investigator explained to Mr P and Miss C that we relied  upon  the expert reports for the 
decking and door, but that if they wanted  to send in their own reports, they were  welcome  to 
do so. The investigator  said his opinion on the jewellery hadnt changed.
With concerns outstanding, Mr P and Miss C requested an ombudsman decision,  so the 
case was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P and Miss C but I think the settlement  of their claim has been in 
line with the terms  and conditions of their policy, and I think thats  fair. I do agree with them 
that the claim couldve been handled  more efficiently, and that RSA shouldve been more  
open about its complaint procedure when asked. But I think the payment of £100 for that is 
sufficient.
Because of this, Ive focussed on the outstanding concerns raised, which are the decking, 
the patio door, and the jewellery.
decking
I havent seen  much evidence in relation to the decking claim, but Mr P and Miss Cs 
quotation says the following:
Repair joists underneath  decking and replace rotton (sic) decking clear all rubbish
Mr P says it was the joists  that were  rotten  and that it was the top part that was damaged  by 
the burglars. But my reading of the above  is in three parts. That the joists  require repair,  that 
the rotten  decking  requires replacement and that the rubbish needs  to be cleared. That may 
not be how it was intended to be read but I think its a reasonable interpretation. And without  
anything to show otherwise I dont think  it was unfair  of RSA to rely on the exclusion for rot, 
which says:
Loss or damage by wet or dry rot whether or not this was caused directly or indirectly  by an 
insured cause
patio door
When Mr P and Miss C said they believed  this to be damaged, RSA arranged for a 
contractor to visit their home.  This is what Id expect  to happen  and therefore  I believe  RSA 
treated Mr P and Miss C fairly  in its actions here. The inspection  report  concluded that the 
Ref: DRN84124563door was in poor condition and that the damage identified  resulted from wear and tear. None 
of the damage  was attributed to the burglary.
Because wear  and tear isnt covered by their policy, this aspect of Mr P and Miss Cs claim 
was declined. I dont  consider this to be unreasonable and although I note Mr P and Miss Cs 
continued dissatisfaction, they havent  provided  anything further to support their arguments  
despite being invited to obtain their own report.
I appreciate Mr P and Miss C say this wasnt suggested until theyd already had remedial  
work done. Thats unfortunate and it does  make things difficult, but it doesnt  make RSAs 
reliance on their report unreasonable.  And I note Mr P and Miss C previously suggested  they 
were waiting for an outcome before taking action with regards to the damaged door, so it 
seems they mightve  had the opportunity to get their own report  after RSAs final response.
jewellery
Following the investigators opinion, I asked another investigator to make further enquiries 
about this with Mr P and Miss C, in relation to the values. They explained that many of the 
items were difficult to describe accurately and due to their age, it was difficult to find similar  
replacements. And they said theyd been  inherited so had sentimental value, thats why they 
opted for a cash settlement instead.  But Mr P and Miss C did specifically question  the value 
of two items.
Mr P and Miss C explained  that two of the rings were described as ladies when they were  in 
fact mens. And one of these was the aforementioned one that they believe to be on sale for 
£900, far more than the £500  valuation RSA attributed to it. Mr P and Miss C believe the 
jewellery available through  RSAs own supplier  which wouldnt incur  the cash  settlement 
deduction  was limited and overpriced.
RSA has explained  that there was no proof of ownership for either of those  two rings and 
that while they were  initially recorded as ladies they were  since  changed to gents and were 
valued accordingly. RSA has also said that the types of rings they were meant they would be 
difficult to replace, so no deduction was made in relation to their cash settlement.
Without further evidence of ownership  or of their value I dont think it was unfair of RSA to 
settle these two rings  as they did.
In relation to the jewellery more generally, Mr P and Miss C believe the deductions for cash  
settlement on others are unfair.  I can understand this but, in general, where an insurer  can 
replace an item the consumer has that option. If the consumer  would  prefer  cash, then the 
insurer will make a deduction and pay what the replacement wouldve cost them. And thats  
usually a lower amount  because of the discounts  insurers can obtain from jewellers.
I appreciate many of the items had sentimental  value and why Mr P and Miss C didnt want 
to replace them, but I dont think that means  the lower cash settlements were  unfair.  And I 
note the policy terms and conditions state the following:
Where  we have offered to repair or to replace an item but you prefer  a cash settlement, at 
our option  we will consider paying the amount we would have paid for repair or replacement
Ive considered what Mr P and Miss C have said about the jewellery available through RSAs 
supplier being  unsuitable. And that they believe this meant they didnt really have much 
Ref: DRN84124564option but to ask for some items  to be settled  in cash. But I havent seen anything that 
supports what Mr P and Miss C have said about this, so I cant make a finding that its unfair.
In closing, I note what  Mr P and Miss C said about the auto-renewal  of their policy. But this 
isnt something that formed part of their claim complaint, so it isnt something I can consider 
now. The issue was raised  with RSA though, and I understand it was going  to treat it as a 
separate complaint and respond  to Mr P and Miss C accordingly.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8412456