K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle  Buck)  didnt  carry out proper 
affordability checks and shouldnt have agreed to lend him 5 loans as he couldnt pay them  
back.
background
Mr T took out 5 loans  between July 2017 and November 2017. A summary  of his borrowing 
is as follows; 
Loan NumberBorrowing 
DateInstalments Loan Amount Highest  
monthly  
repayment
1 06/07/2017 3 500 233.47
2 19/07/2017 3 100 50.82
3 31/08/2017 3 700 329.10
4 02/10/2017 3 700 317.80
5 15/11/2017 3 100 44.93
Uncle Buck  says it took into consideration Mr Ts monthly income, his expenditure and 
carried out a credit search when it assessed his loan applications. It says Mr T had enough  
disposable income and could afford the loans.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be partly  upheld. He said the checks Uncle Buck  
carried out for loans  1-3 were proportionate for Mr T. But for loans 4 and 5 he said Uncle 
Buck hadnt  carried  out sufficient checks.  He felt if Uncle Buck had carried  out proportionate 
checks they would have shown Mr T wouldnt have been able to afford them.  Our adjudicator 
also made suggestions for Uncle Buck  to put things right regarding these 2 loans.
As both parties still cant agree, this complaint  has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Uncle Buck, at the time it lent, complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that Mr T would be able to repay  in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr T would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ts indebtedness  in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Ref: DRN88991272Did Uncle Buck act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Uncle Buck did not act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr T and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether      
Mr T could  afford to pay back the loans before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr T was borrowing and the length of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck  had to do.
Uncle Buck  says it asked  about Mr Ts income  and expenditure and did a credit  check  for 
each of the 5 loans.  It says it relied  on the information he gave.
I think the checks Uncle Buck carried out on loans 1--3 went  far enough.  The loan 
repayments appeared affordable on the information  Uncle Buck  had available.  I dont think  it 
would have seen  anything that would  have alerted it to carry out any further checks  at this 
stage and from the information it had I think it would have seen that all 3 loans were 
affordable for Mr T.
Mr T took out loan 4 on 02/10/2017 and by this stage hed been borrowing regularly and in 
quick succession. I think Mr Ts pattern  of borrowing at this point suggested he mayve been  
becoming reliant on these  loans.  I think it wouldve  been reasonable and proportionate for 
Uncle Buck  to have  asked  further questions and carried  out more checks. I think it should 
have done so for the loan application for loan 5 also.
For loan 4, Uncle Buck should have been asking  further questions  about Mr Ts other short 
term lending commitments  but I cant see that it did this. Uncle Buck  has said recently that it 
carried out these  checks when it ran its credit  search. But I dont think Uncle  Buck went far 
enough, and the information  obtained  within the search should  have been a further prompt  
for it to seek further details about Mr Ts other short term lending commitments at that time.  
By the time Uncle Buck  agreed to lend to Mr T again  for a fifth time I think  it should  have  
been looking  to carry out a complete review  of Mr Ts finances. If it had carried  out further 
checks on loan 4 and 5, it would have seen  he had a number of other payday loan 
commitments on top of his self declared expenditure. And for loan 5, it would have seen that 
Mr T had significant gambling transactions that were a lot more than what  he said his 
monthly income was. When  these  additional amounts are considered alongside Mr Ts 
normal living  costs, then it is clear  to me that he had no disposable income  in order to meet  
the monthly repayments for loans 4 and 5. These two loans werent sustainable. 
Mr T has recently  provided Uncle Buck with bank  statements from around the time it granted 
loan 5. Uncle Buck has suggested that Mr T had other sources of income that should have 
been taken into consideration.  But as our adjudicator  has already mentioned, all of these 
transactions do not represent a regular  form of income and so it is not reasonable to 
consider them when looking at whether Mr T could afford to repay loan 5.
Uncle Buck  says that Mr T withdrew  his applications  for loan 4 and 5 and that it was required 
to record these loans  as not existing.  But interest was still charged  on them. And as I have  
already concluded I do not find that they were sustainable or affordable therefore I find it 
reasonable that Mr T is refunded  the interest and charges that were accrued.
Ref: DRN88991273Taking everything into account  I dont think Uncle Buck has shown its checks for loans 4 and 
5 were sufficient or proportionate given Mr Ts borrowing  history  or, the amounts borrowed. I 
consider proportionate  checks would  have shown Uncle Buck that Mr T couldnt afford to 
repay the loans.  On balance I dont think these 2 loans  shouldve been granted.  So Uncle 
Buck should  put right what it did wrong.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to give Mr T loan 4 or Loan 5. So Uncle  Buck 
should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to each of the two loans.  
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to the two 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ts complaint  and direct  Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8899127