K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about how Fairmead  Insurance Limited dealt with a claim they made 
under their home insurance  policy.
background
In 2008 Mr and Mrs B noticed cracking to the external brickwork of their house and some 
internally. They also reported doors jamming. They called Fairmead who sent out a 
surveyor. The surveyor said the cracking  was due to thermal movement, and the brickwork 
would need periodic repointing due to the nature of it. They said the internal fractures could 
be repaired  by re-plastering and redecorating, but as the damage was minor it wouldnt be 
justified. The surveyor also commented the internal doors would need to be periodically  
adjusted to allow for moisture variation.
Mr and Mrs B changed insurers (Firm B) and called  them in 2014 to report  the same  issues,  
and to say theyd noticed cracking in a different  area of their house. Firm B referred  the claim 
back to Fairmead to deal with as it was mostly about  the same issues theyd looked at in 
2008. Fairmead sent a different surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor  noted no 
internal decoration had been done and the damage hadnt worsened significantly.  That 
surveyor also concluded the damage was due to normal thermal  movement and disruption 
caused by upvc  windows being  replaced.  The additional cracking noticed was put down to 
being settling  cracks  caused by an extension Mr and Mrs B had recently built. Mr and Mrs B 
said they accepted what they were told about the cause of the damage as they trusted the 
surveyors experience.  
Mr and Mrs B changed insurers again (Firm C). In 2018 they noticed  significant changes to 
the cracks  in the property and called  Firm C. Firm C sent out a surveyor who conducted 
tests on the property and the drains. The conclusion drawn was that the damage  was the 
same as dealt with by Fairmead in 2008  and 2014, so the claim should be referred  back to it. 
Firm C also added an exclusion to Mr and Mrs Bs policy for any damage related to 
subsidence. 
Mr and Mrs B instructed their own surveyor  who concluded the damage hadnt been  properly  
surveyed previously. He commented that in his opinion, significant action should have been 
taken at the time by Fairmead to prevent the damage that had now occurred. Mr and Mrs B 
complained to Fairmead that the advice theyd been previously given by its surveyors  was 
incorrect. Fairmead said too much time had now passed and they wouldnt be looking into 
what Mr and Mrs B had previously been told.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  it should  be upheld.  He said Fairmead 
should consider  the information  Mr and Mrs B have provided, and assess  the damage now 
caused to the Mr and Mrs Bs property. He explained Fairmead  still had a duty to look at 
claims related to its time on cover. 
Fairmead disagreed  with the investigator, it said it had been  many years since  it had 
provided insurance cover for the property. It said that industry guidance  confirmed that 
Firm C should be dealing  with the claim  Mr and Mrs B now wanted to make. It explained it 
dealt with the claims at the time using the most appropriate methods, it didnt think it was 
reasonable it should now be asked  to assess the matter again. 
The case  has come  to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN82220942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld,  Ill explain  why.
Fairmead has pointed  to guidance issued  by the Association of British  Insurers  (ABI) which 
says given the length of time that has passed,  Firm C should deal with the insurance claim 
And, if it feels  it is linked  to the previous  claim  in 2008, it should recover  the costs  from 
Fairmead.
Ive thought about what Fairmead has said and the ABI guidance, but it doesnt fit this 
scenario. Firm C has excluded subsidence from cover  and so now arent dealing with the 
claim at all. Therefore,  Mr and Mrs B are in the position where no insurer is dealing with what  
could be a potentially  valid claim,  despite them having continuous insurance cover. I dont  
think this is a fair or reasonable position for Mr and Mrs B to be in.
Fairmead has said it no longer insures Mr and Mrs Bs property and hasnt done for many  
years. I agree that is the case. However  I dont think this means Fairmead no longer has any 
liability to deal with claims which may be associated with the time it was on cover. 
The ABI guidance  provides that if the current  insurer or policyholder can clearly establish 
that inadequate repairs or design were undertaken on behalf of a previous insurer and that it 
is evident continued damage  is due to those inadequate repairs  then the claim should be 
referred back to the previous insurer. 
Im mindful of the fact two insurers have concluded  the damage  occurring  to Mr and Mrs Bs 
property is related to the damage  they initially reported to Fairmead in 2008.  Mr and Mrs B 
have argued that Fairmead incorrectly diagnosed  the claim previously and have provided 
evidence which they feel supports this. 
While in this case no repairs were completed,  this is the subject of the complaint  
Mr and Mrs B think Fairmead should have  undertaken  repairs  and the continued damage is 
due to this lack of action.  I think the surveyors report is the clearest evidence Mr and Mrs B 
are likely to be able to provide after all this time, that this maybe the case.
Given what Ive explained above  I think it would be fair and reasonable for Fairmead  to 
consider the claim  Mr and Mrs B are now making.  I wont be making  a decision here on 
whether Mr and Mrs Bs claim is subsidence related - our service  isnt an expert  on such  
matters. And, it is only fair that Fairmead have the opportunity  to objectively assess the 
damage now present  at Mr and Mrs Bs property, the additional information they have 
available and the results of any further investigations at the property, before any such  
conclusion is reached. If Fairmead believe it is linked  to an insured peril under the policy  
Mr and Mrs B had, it should deal with the claim accordingly. If it concludes there remains  no 
insured event and Mr and Mrs B are unhappy  with this, they would be entitled to ask this 
service to review that decision as a separate matter.
Fairmead has said Mr and Mrs B should  provide details of all investigations that have been  
undertaken and their surveyor  should do more to qualify why he thinks  the claim was 
misdiagnosed in 2008  and 2014. While I agree Mr and Mrs B should  provide any information 
available to them that may assist  Fairmead  in its assessment of the claim, Im mindful that 
Ref: DRN82220943Mr and Mrs B may not have access to reports completed for Firms B and Cs by their 
respective contractors and because of this, I dont think it is fair to impose this requirement 
on Mr and Mrs B. I think Fairmead should  approach this claim objectively and undertake any 
investigations it normally would where an ongoing claim for subsidence is made. 
Overall, having considered all of the evidence, I think a fair outcome would be for Fairmead  
to consider Mr and Mrs Bs claim  for the damage now occurring at their property.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Fairmead Insurance Limited.  I 
direct it to fairly  and objectively consider Mr and Mrs Bs claim for subsidence under the 
terms of the policy  held when it insured their property.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2020.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8222094