K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very (SDFC) failed 
to provide him with sufficient information about  its Buy Now Pay Later  (BNPL) payment 
option. As a result  he says he has recently  incurred significant interest charges on his credit 
account.
 
background
Mr G opened his credit account  with SDFC in February 2013. Since then he has used the 
account regularly  and has generally managed his repayments well.
SDFC offers consumers a payment option it calls BNPL. Depending on the size of the 
purchase consumers  can defer their payment for periods of up to twelve  months.  The costs 
of those purchases are held separately from the main credit account  and do not attract  
minimum payments for the BNPL period. Should the purchase cost be cleared from the 
account before the end of the BNPL period no interest is charged.  But, should some of the 
purchase cost still remain  outstanding  at the end of the BNPL period, the outstanding 
purchase cost and the full amount of deferred  interest is added to the consumers main  
credit account.
Mr G first used BNPL in February 2013. He failed to repay  that purchase before  the end of 
the BNPL period  the following year, and deferred interest of almost £500 was added to his 
account in March 2014. Mr G queried that interest  and SDFC says it provided him with an 
explanation of why it had been charged. Mr G made  use of BNPL  on orders  he placed in 
2015 and 2016. He cleared each of these purchases before the end of the respective BNPL 
periods and so incurred  no interest.
Mr G next used BNPL in June 2017  and made  further BNPL  purchases in the following  
months. As he did not clear those balances the deferred interest amounts were added  to his 
account in March, August, September, and October 2018. It is these interest amounts that 
form the basis of the complaint that Mr G has made.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought the 
explanation that SDFC had given  to Mr G about BNPL  in 2013, and his subsequent 
successful use of the payment method, suggested  that he was sufficiently aware of how 
BNPL worked. She thought that knowledge would have been enough to mitigate any 
deficiencies in the information SDFC had provided. So she didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint  hasnt been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN80188712The BNPL  payment method  is relatively complex.  Purchases made using that option do not 
appear alongside other purchases on an account statement nor attract  any minimum 
payments during the BNPL period. That doesnt  seem unreasonable   the BNPL  purchases 
do not need to be repaid at all until the end of the period. But consumers are able to make  
interim repayments if they choose,  and can direct  SDFC to apply some  of their repayments  
to those items if they wish.
SDFC says that the information it provided  to Mr G about how the BNPL  method worked was 
clear, and sufficient for him to understand his payment options.  I have some  concerns about 
that statement.
SDFC has provided us with copies of the credit agreement that Mr G signed, and the 
accompanying terms and conditions  that provide more detail about  the BNPL  option. And it 
has shown us details  of how the offer is represented  on its current  mobile  and web-based 
ordering screens. But Mr G has pointed out that the buying screens used by SDFC have 
changed over time. I cannot be sure what screens  were in use at the time Mr G placed his 
latest orders. And I dont  know  how the terms and conditions were presented to Mr G when 
he first opened his credit account. At the very least, the details of the BNPL  offer appear 
towards the end of a lengthy  closely worded document. So I cannot be comfortable that the 
information SDFC provided to Mr G was sufficient  to make him aware  of how the BNPL  offer 
worked.
But as I have said earlier, Mr G has previously used  BNPL on a number of occasions.  And 
I think from those experiences he would have had sufficient information to understand how 
the scheme worked. In 2014 Mr G incurred the deferred interest because he hadnt repaid 
his purchase before  the end of the BNPL period. And he queried why that interest  had been 
added in an email  to SDFC. Although, given the time that has passed, SDFC is no longer 
able to provide  me with a copy of that email,  its account notes record  that Mr G was given  a 
full explanation of how BNPL worked.
And Mr G went on to use BNPL  in both 2015 and 2016. SDFC says that he successfully 
cleared the balances on both occasions and so wasnt  liable for any of the deferred  interest  
costs. That might suggest that Mr G had learnt  from his previous experiences  of using BNPL  
and changed his repayment  behaviour accordingly.
Mr G has said that he doesnt think it was fair that the minimum payments he was asked to 
make following his purchases in 2017  only related to the items  on his normal  credit account,  
and not those hed purchased using BNPL.  As I said earlier,  Mr G didnt need  to make any 
repayments on his BNPL items for up to a year. So I dont think it would be right for those 
items to affect the minimum payment he needed  to make during the BNPL  period. And I note 
that for most  of the time Mr Gs minimum payment was between  £20 and £30. If the BNPL 
items had been  included  SDFC estimates  the minimum payment would have been £84. So 
I dont think it would  be reasonable to conclude that Mr G thought he was making payments 
towards the BNPL items during  that time.
I can see that SDFC issued an account  statement to Mr G each month. As the end of the 
BNPL periods neared, SDFC included a reminder  on the statement of the amounts 
outstanding. And it also included  an estimate of the interest that Mr G would need to pay if 
the balance hadnt been repaid before the end of the BNPL period.
Ref: DRN80188713So although  I cannot be sure that the explanations SDFC gave Mr G about BNPL at the 
outset were sufficient, I think that by the time he made his purchases in 2017 he was 
sufficiently aware of how the option  worked. And I think the information SDFC gave him as 
he was approaching the end of the BNPL  periods  in 2018 would have helped him to 
understand the interest charges he was about  to face. I appreciate  that my decision will be 
disappointing from Mr G, but I dont think that SDFC needed to do more  before offering him 
the BNPL offers in 2017.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8018871