K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that there  are items on her accounts with 
Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited (Shop Direct) that she 
doesnt recognise.  Mrs R would  like a refund of the items she 
says she hasnt had. 
background
Mrs R says she had two accounts  with Shop Direct. She says a 
relative has paid off the balance on the accounts. But she 
doesnt think the balance outstanding was correct.  
She doesnt understand why her payments  were  so high each  
month as she only remembers making one large purchase for a 
washing machine.  And one smaller purchase for a pair of 
trainers. She doesnt remember  making any other purchases.
She says she has found it hard to get the information she 
needed on her accounts  from Shop Direct. She doesnt feel 
Shop Direct has made any allowances for her disabilities.
Shop Direct said its records showed  that Mrs R had a large 
number purchases on her accounts.  The records show that 
some items were returned and others replaced. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. He felt that 
Shop Direct had shown  that Mrs R had most likely  made the 
purchases shown on her accounts.
Mrs R didnt accept this view.  She didnt feel our investigator 
had taken into account her disabilities. Or that he had 
questioned Shop Direct why it had stopped her and other 
customers access to online accounts in order to check 
outstanding balances and other information. 
Ref: DRN83662882She didnt feel our investigator had proven  she had made  the 
purchases. And she still believed  she had only purchased a 
washing machine and a pair of trainers.
Finally she referred to Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI)  on 
both of her accounts. She feels  that Shop Direct kept vital 
information about PPI from her.
At this point it was agreed  with Mrs R that rather than our 
investigator replying  to her points  her complaint would come 
direct to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mrs R feels strongly about this and I do understand why. From 
all I have read it seems she has had problems for a number of 
years trying to get the information  she needed to manage her 
accounts with Shop  Direct.
Mrs R has mentioned  concerns around PPI. I believe this is 
being dealt  with as a separate  complaint. So I wont  be looking 
at that here.
I am aware that Mrs R had a complaint that was originally dealt 
with by our service in 2018. Its not for me to go over the 
findings of that complaint here. But as it is so closely linked with 
this one, I think it helps to mention it. That complaint covered 
the following issues:-
-Shop Directs  online account system no longer allowing  
Mrs R to see an itemised version of her account
Ref: DRN83662883-Mrs Rs attempts to get a full break down of her purchases 
since 2013
-Mrs R dispute that she had made some purchases.  And 
Shop Directs  lack of proof that she had done so
-Shop Directs  delay in responding to Mrs R.
-Shop Direct selling Mrs Rs accounts on to debt collectors 
when she was cooperating and trying to make payments
-Shop Direct not taking  into account Mrs Rs  disabilities  or 
mental health
In 2018,  our investigator upheld Mrs Rs complaint. She didnt 
feel Shop Direct had made any attempt to understand  how best 
to communicate  with Mrs R. And failed to make any 
adjustments for Mrs R as a vulnerable customer. She noted 
Shop Direct didnt give Mrs R an itemised statement until 2017. 
And didnt offer any help using its online system.
She recommended, and Mrs R accepted, £500 compensation 
for the impact on Mrs R. She also recommended that Shop 
Direct send  Mrs R details a full break down of the offers  that 
applied to the items she purchased. And if Mrs R still disputed 
any purchases she could come back to this service.
Unfortunately due to the time that had passed Shop  Direct 
wasnt able to provide the information our investigator  
suggested.
So the outstanding part of Mrs Rs complaint  whether she 
made all the purchases  Shop Direct says she did  has come 
to me.
Ref: DRN83662884I think its unfortunate for Mrs R that her complaint  has, in 
effect, been  divided into two. This may explain why Mrs R felt 
the view from our investigator about her purchases didnt take 
into account  her disabilities.
I think that was covered by the findings of the first investigator 
who felt Shop Direct hadnt  made  any allowances for Mrs Rs 
disabilities and recommended  £500  compensation that Mrs R 
accepted. 
So the second  investigator focussed  on the issue of the 
purchases rather than looking again  at Shop Directs lack of 
support for Mrs Rs disabilities.   As we have no power to look 
into a complaint once it has already been looked  at he was right 
to do this.
Ive looked in detail all the information  Shop Direct has given 
us. This includes a breakdown of all the purchases and 
payments Mrs R made. 
I am not going to go into the detail of these accounts  our 
investigator did that in his view that has already been sent out 
to Mrs R. But in summary the account records show a large  
number of purchases  over 1,000 across both accounts over a 
six year period.
What was noticeable  to me was the large volume of 
transactions, along with the fact some items show as returned. 
And that Shop Direct had the correct address.
Mrs R doesnt  feel this is enough evidence to show she made  
the purchases. But, on balance,  I think it is enough to show that 
its more likely  than not that she did.
Shop Direct has explained the items would have  needed to be 
signed for. But even if that wasnt the case its difficult to see 
Ref: DRN83662885how such a large  number of purchases wouldnt have been  
received at the right address. Or how Mrs R wasnt aware of 
the purchases.
I am persuaded the items  were ordered and were delivered. 
The only other explanation would be that someone  else has 
access to both Mrs Rs accounts.  And to her address. But 
theres nothing to suggest thats the case here.
I think that given the volume of the transactions and the orders  
that Mrs R wouldve at least been  aware of some, if not all, of 
the orders that arrived at her address. The fact that she didnt 
makes me think that whats  more likely to have happened  here 
is that Mrs R has found it difficult to keep track of her account. 
Theres also the fact that some items were returned and 
replaced. That means that at least some of the items  ordered 
were received  at the address  they were sent to  which was 
Mrs Rs.
And then whoever received these  decided that they wanted to 
return them.  Again, I havent got any reason  to think that there 
was anyone other than Mrs R who couldve done this. And Id 
add that choosing  to return items  isnt what Id expect  to see if 
someone was using Mrs Rs account without  her authority to 
benefit from the credit it provided.
Shop Directs  records also show that someone was contacting  
it at various times  after the washing machine was ordered. In 
particular, in February 2013 to dispute the minimum  payment 
because there were several items that had been ordered on 
certain terms.  And again in March 2013 to change  the terms of 
certain orders made in December 2012.  I think its most likely  
that conversations like this would  have to be had with the 
relevant account  holder, which here is Mrs R. 
Ref: DRN83662886I think this demonstrates that Mrs R would have  had an 
awareness of other orders apart from the washing machine at 
this point, but wasnt disputing  making the payments then.
I do have  some sympathy for Mrs R. I think it would be difficult 
for anyone to remember the exact transactions  given the 
number and the time period over which they were bought. I 
appreciate this may have made it difficult for her to keep  track 
of her account. But that doesnt  mean that itd be fair for me to 
hold Shop Direct liable  for these  transactions, when all of the 
evidence Ive seen suggests that its most likely  Mrs R ordered 
and received  the goods.
Ive noted that some  items were  bought  on a Buy Now Pay 
Later deal (BNPL) which meant that payments didnt appear on 
Mrs Rs account for some time. That might explain why Mrs Rs 
payments increased when she didnt expect them to. And why 
she found  it hard to know what she owed.
I think the issues  that have been dealt with by the first 
investigator are relevant here.  I think Shop Direct not making 
any adjustments  for Mrs R as a vulnerable customer. And, for 
example, not giving  her an itemised statement until 2017 
wouldnt have helped. 
But these issues were dealt with in 2018 and Shop  Direct has 
paid £500 compensation.  So although I think these issues 
wouldve impacted on Mrs Rs ability to keep her accounts up to 
date I dont  think  its fair to ask Shop Direct to pay more 
compensation for the same issue. 
Mrs R has made a point of questioning why Shop Direct 
stopped her, and other customers, having  online access to 
check accounts. I can only look at the effect  of anything that 
Shop Direct has done on Mrs R in this complaint. I cant 
consider the effect on other  customers. 
Ref: DRN83662887I think the issue  of not giving Mrs R the information she needed 
was covered by our first investigator. One of the points the 
investigator covered in that view was Shop Directs online 
system no longer showing itemised versions of accounts.  Also, 
the broader issue of Shop Direct  not supporting Mrs R as a 
vulnerable customer wouldve covered how Mrs R accessed 
information.
So I dont feel its fair for me to go over that again as Mrs R 
accepted that view. 
I cant reasonably ask Shop Direct  to refund any of the 
payments Mrs R has made for the reasons Ive already  given.
I do believe Shop Direct  has shown that Mrs R made  a 
significant number of purchases on her account and Im 
persuaded that its more  likely than not, on balance, that she 
made all of them.
my final decision
My final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject  my decision before 12 
January 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8366288