K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Creative Finance Corp Ltd irresponsibly lent to him. Mr C has also said 
that hes unhappy with the level of service Creative Finance provided, specifically 
surrounding his logbook and the attempted debit of his account.
background
From the information provided, Mr C took out three  loans with Creative Finance between 
August 2018 and February 2019. As I understand it, Mr C has an outstanding balance  with 
Creative Finance.
The loan details  are as follows:
Loan number Start dateAmount
(£) TermMonthly 
repayment 
(£)
1 25/08/2018 600 12 months 82.50
2 17/12/2018 1,200 24 months 115
3 19/02/2019 400 12 months 55
This complaint was looked at by one our adjudicators  who thought that Creative Finance 
wasnt wrong to lend Mr C the first two loans, but our adjudicator thought  that a closer  look at 
Mr Cs finances at the time of the third loan would have shown that Creative Finance 
shouldnt have lent him that loan.
Our adjudicator also thought that Creative  Finance dealt fairly  with Mr C on the issue of his 
logbook and that it would have been reasonable for Creative Finance to adjust the 
automated payment date of Mr Cs loan as he had recently made a manual payment.
Creative Finance  didnt  agree that it incorrectly lent loan 3. As the complaint hasnt been 
resolved, its been passed to me, an ombudsman, for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Mr Cs logbook and service issues
Mr C contacted Creative Finance to request his logbook which was used as surety for his 
loan. Mr C said he wanted to renew his road tax and needed the logbook to do this. Creative 
Finance confirmed that it had lost Mr Cs logbook and it offered Mr C £25 to get a 
replacement logbook which it said itll credit  his account with. Mr C was unhappy about this 
as he feels Creative Finance should  have paid the £25 compensation to him directly  rather  
than deducted  that amount from his loan balance.
Ref: DRN88569972When a business  makes an error, this service looks to put the consumer back in the position 
they would  have been in had an error  not been made.  In this case, Creative Finance 
acknowledges it made an error and to put Mr C back in the position hed have been in but for 
that error,  it has offered compensation to replace the logbook. Mr C has said he wanted the 
cash as he was struggling financially. But that doesnt mean  that Creative Finance had to 
make the payment into his bank account. Ultimately, Mr C owed Creative Finance on two 
loans and it could  apply that one-off payment to his account. Overall,  I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Creative Finance to apply  the compensation to Mr Cs outstanding  balance 
he owed.
So, while Creative  Finance made an error  in losing his logbook, I think  it didnt act 
unreasonably in the way it put things  right for Mr C here.
Mr C also says on 18 November 2019  that he paid Creative Finance £350 manually and 
within two days,  it attempted to debit his account for another payment. I have to say that 
theres very limited information available to me to understand what  happened  here.
Creative Finance  has suggested that this was an automated payment and that it attempted  
to debit Mr Cs account on the payment due date although it hasnt told this service what  the 
payment due date was here. Ill say that apart from Mr C and Creative Finances testimony 
about what may have  happened here,  I havent seen evidence of this and whether Mr C 
incurred an unpaid direct  debit charge as a result.
However, I think that it seems Mr C had recently  made a manual payment towards  his 
account, which was likely  towards his arrears,  and so payment may have still been due on 
the contractual payment  date. Essentially, the manual payment Mr C had made  was an extra 
payment. But, while  Creative Finance may have been acting within the terms of the loan in 
taking the usual payment, I think it wouldnt have been unreasonable  for it to have 
considered a later payment date. In saying this, Im especially conscious of the fact that Mr C 
had been in arrears  and may have been struggling  financially  at this point.
As stated above, theres limited information  about what happened  here,  and I cant  say that 
Creative Finance  was wrong to carry on with the contractually agreed payments, or that Mr 
C suffered a detriment as a result of this attempted collection. As I understand it, the direct 
debit failed, and I havent seen evidence  to show that Mr C was charged a return item fee by 
the bank. So, overall, there isnt anything that I can see needs to be put right.
Creative Finances  lending decisions
Turning to Creative Finances lending decisions, before lending money to a consumer a 
lender should  take proportionate  steps to ensure the consumer could repay without 
borrowing further or suffering significant  adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed  was due to be repaid. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN88569973But certain factors might  point to the fact that Creative Finance should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could be used to determine how detailed a 
proportionate check shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any 
indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes  in future circumstances.  
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether Creative Finance did what it needed 
to before agreeing to lend to Mr C.
From what  I can see, Mr C signed  a statement of truth and Creative  Finance asked him 
about his income  and expenditure before  lending  loans  2 and 3. Theres limited information 
about loan 1 and so I dont know what information Creative Finance obtained before 
agreeing to lend that loan. For both loans 2 and 3, Mr Cs declared  monthly  income was 
£1,600 and his monthly  expenses were £831.
This was Mr Cs first loan with Creative Finance, it was for 12 months and the monthly 
repayments were relatively  low compared with his declared income;  and his monthly  living 
costs suggest he had sufficient disposable  income.  So, taking all of that into account, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Creative  Finance to lend this loan in those circumstances.
Loan 2 was for double the amount of loan 1, and also for a longer term. Essentially, Mr C 
was entering into a contract with Creative  Finance to repay  £115  every month for the next 
two years.  Given the length of this commitment, that this was a second loan within  four 
months of borrowing a previous loan, and the increase in the monthly repayment amount, I 
think Creative Finance  should have taken its checks further. I dont  think in those 
circumstances it was reasonable  for Creative Finance to rely on Mr Cs signed statement of 
truth and his declared income and expenses.  It had an obligation  to carry out checks to 
make sure Mr C could  repay the loan without borrowing  further or suffering significant  
adverse consequences, not just ensure  that it was likely to get its money back. 
Before lending this loan, I would have expected Creative Finance to gain a clear  
understanding of Mr Cs financial circumstances, including verifying at least some  of the 
income and expenditure information Mr C provided.  
Mr C has provided a copy of his bank statement from the time of loan 2 and from what  I can 
see, Mr Cs income was around  £1,600.  The living expenses I can make  out from the 
statement were around  £900. I think that, had Creative Finance taken its checks further by 
verifying some of the information Mr C provided,  its likely  to have concluded  that Mr C could 
afford this loan. So, I dont  think Creative  Finance was wrong to lend loan 2.
Ref: DRN88569974It seems  loan 3 was approved at a time when Mr C was still repaying  loan 2. So, for each  
month he had to make the repayments for both loans totalling £170. For the similar reasons 
as loan 2, I think  Creative needed to take its checks further by verifying some the information 
Mr C provided.  
From the bank statements provided,  Mr Cs income around the time of the loan 3 was 
around £1,755,  I can see that Mr Cs living  expenses around the time of this loan were 
around £600. But Im concerned at the level of cash withdrawals Mr C was making when  he 
was granted this loan. In the month  before this loan was granted, Mr C made  around  £1,200  
worth of case withdrawals. I can also see that in November  2018, Mr C withdrew around 
£1,350 at various times throughout the month,  this was in addition  to his direct debit 
payments for his bills. This pattern continued in December 2018  and in fact increased  to 
around £1,580   more than his actual income  in that month.
I think that had Creative Finance carried out sufficient checks its likely to have found this 
and should have been concerned. Our adjudicator asked  Mr C what  the purpose  of these 
withdrawals were, and he has said he had a gambling addiction and these monies were 
used to fund the addiction.  I would  say that I havent  seen  any direct evidence  to show that 
these specific withdrawals  were  spent on gambling, but that doesnt change the significance  
of these transaction. Given the sheer number of withdrawals in question, I dont think it 
would have been reasonable for Creative Finance to conclude  Mr C would more  likely than 
not have been able to make his payments for loan 3 without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse  consequences, without first receiving a plausible explanation for these  
withdrawals. 
The cash  withdrawals were regular  and significant,  Creative Finance now says it questioned 
the cash withdrawals  and Mr C didnt say he was gambling but Creative  Finance  hasnt  told 
this service what explanation Mr C gave about the cash  withdrawals. Also, I havent seen 
any evidence to show that Creative  Finance  requested Mr Cs bank  statements  at the time of 
lending. These withdrawals were going  towards  paying for something and they show  that 
loan 3 was unaffordable for Mr C as his financial position was unsustainable.  
So, I think that Creative Finance lent loan 3 in circumstances where  proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have shown Mr C was unlikely to sustainably  make the 
repayments of his loan. And I think Creative Finance needs to put things right.
I can see that Creative Finance sent Mr C several  letters notifying him of the arrears on his 
account and a default notice was served  to Mr C on 22 December 2019, as the account 
wasnt brought up to date As Mr C fell into arrears,  Creative Finance  took possession  of his 
car used  as security  for the loan. 
Whats happened  since  the adjudicators  view?
Creative Finance  has confirmed that it has now sold the car for £1,500,  which is 
disappointing as this service was considering the complaint and the adjudicator  had 
recommended that this loan should be upheld. It would have been fair for Creative Finance 
to hold off selling the car until the conclusion of this complaint. Creative Finance lent to Mr C 
when it shouldnt have  done and as a result, he no longer has use of his car as Creative 
Finance sold it in the middle of an ongoing complaint about the related loan.
Ref: DRN88569975Ive considered whether Creative Finance got a fair price for the car in the circumstances 
and given the condition of the car at the time of sale (the car had no keys or MOT 
certificate), I think it was a fair price. Given the manner  Creative  Finance handled the sale of 
Mr Cs car and he has now suffered  loss of use of his car, I think  it needs to pay Mr C some 
compensation for this.
Putting things  right  what  Creative  Finance needs to do
To put things right for Mr C, Creative  Finance should:
pay Mr C £300 for loss of use of his car;
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of loan 3; 
add interest at 8% simple per year on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement*;
as the proceeds from the sale of the car were  sufficient to repay the capital of £400, 
Creative Finance can deduct the loan amount  from the proceeds of sale and pay Mr C 
the surplus;
Creative Finance issued Mr C with a default  notice  for this loan, but its not clear if it has 
recorded a default  on his credit file. As I think it shouldnt have  lent Mr C this loan, it 
should remove  any adverse information it may have recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a 
result of this loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires  Creative Finance to take off tax from this interest. Creative 
Finance must  give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint and require Creative 
Finance Corp Ltd to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8856997