K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the way in which BISL Limited  (trading  as RAC Insurance) (BISL) 
increased the cost of his car insurance  policy. Hes also unhappy  that his information was 
retained when  hed previously asked it to be removed  from his file. 
background
Mr L says he has been a loyal customer for some time. So he was unhappy when his 
premium increased by around £30 at renewal in 2018, but no explanation was given for the 
increase in price.
Mr L says he phoned  BISL after he was sent the higher  renewal price.  He was told hed still 
have to pay that price  to renew. But if he did this, it would send him a cheque  for the 
difference between  that price and the amount hed been charged the previous year.  Mr L 
accepted this and paid the premium. However,  he went on to complain,  saying  he shouldnt 
have had to do this. 
Mr L says that when he spoke to BISL  on the phone,  he asked it to remove his card details 
from its system  after hed paid the premium. The business told him it already had his card 
details saved, as hed used it to buy insurance the previous year.  It said it would take 30 
days for Mr Ls card details to be removed.  Mr L was unhappy about this and asked the 
business to look into it.
BISL accepts that in 2015 Mr L had made it clear that he wanted his card details removed 
after each payment. So it paid Mr L £75 compensation for not doing this. In November 2018 
it wrote  to Mr L to say that his continuous  payment authority  had been  cancelled, and in the 
future, he would have  to contact it to make  payments. 
Our investigator understood why Mr L was frustrated about what had happened. But she 
said that insurance quotes  can change from year to year, and that a number of factors can 
affect renewal prices. She didnt think there was a significant difference  in the price  Mr L was 
asked to pay in 2018 compared  to the previous year.  And in any case, Mr L was refunded for 
the difference in price.  So he didnt suffer a financial loss.
Our investigator appreciated that Mr L was unhappy  that he had to pay the higher price 
upfront, and wait to be reimbursed for the difference. But she said that happened because 
BISL wasnt able to override the price on its system. So it made  a manual adjustment  to 
ensure he paid the same premium as the previous year.
Our investigator could  also see that Mr Ls card details have been removed from BISLs 
system now.  So she thought that the £75 compensation he was paid was a reasonable 
amount to reflect the inconvenience this matter has caused.
Mr L remained unhappy, and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He 
didnt tell us why he disagreed with what our investigator had said, but hed previously  said 
he shouldve  been awarded more compensation for what happened.
Ref: DRN80175612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr L was unhappy  that the renewal price he was offered had increased by around £30 
(compared to the previous  year).  But he phoned  BISL about this, and it agreed to match 
what he paid the previous  year.  However, he was told he would have to pay the premium  
hed originally been offered and wait to be reimbursed by cheque  for the difference  in the 
price. I understand why he was unhappy  about  this. But he agreed to this arrangement on 
the phone  when he decided to renew his policy. And RAC has told us why it did this  it had 
to make a made a manual  adjustment to ensure he paid the same  premium as the previous 
year.
So Im satisfied that Mr L didnt suffer a loss as result of what happened. I also understand 
why BISL told Mr L hed need to pay the premium  hed originally been  offered upfront.
I accept that Mr L suffered  some inconvenience  as a result of this, but I think thats fairly 
reflected in the £75 compensation he was paid. Im also satisfied that the £75 is enough to  
cover Mr L for the fact that his card details were kept on BISLs system after he asked them 
to be removed in 2015. 
I appreciate that Mr L thinks he should  be awarded  more compensation for this matter,  but it 
isnt for me to punish  businesses  for mistakes they make.
In the circumstances, it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8017561