K821x#15complaint
Mrs J is unhappy at the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim she made  on her 
motor insurance policy.
The policy is administered by Car Care Plan but for ease of reading  Ill just refer to Ageas. 
background
Mrs J had an Auto Trust cosmetic repair insurance  policy  for her car underwritten by 
Ageas. In May 2018  she was involved in a collision with a deer which  damaged the offside  
rear and drivers door and bumper, so she made a claim on her policy.  Ageas passed  the 
claim to its repair  specialist  D. But after more  than three months  D had still not attended to 
repair the car. Ageas admitted that at the time Mrs J made her claim there were some  
teething problems with Ds new software system. Repair appointments were not being 
added to the technicians calendars meaning  they didnt turn up. And problems with the 
telephony system meant calls took a long time to be answered, or were  dropped,  adding  to 
Mrs Js frustration. 
Mrs J decided to trade  in her car before D had been out to repair the damage. Ageas said 
the damage wouldnt have been covered by the policy as it was too significant  to require a 
minor cosmetic repair. But in recognition of the poor service it paid Mrs J £50. Mrs J 
obtained a quote of over £1,200 to repair the damage from a specialist, which  she feels  
Ageas should  pay. And as well as changing  her car she also changed her insurer, so she 
missed the opportunity to claim on her general car insurance policy.  Ageas paid Mrs J an 
additional £150 (so £200 in total) because in circumstances where the damage requires 
more than a cosmetic repair, the policy terms allow  for a contribution  to a regular body shop 
repair of up to this amount.  
Mrs J was unhappy so she complained  to this service. As D still hadnt done the repair  she 
didnt think it was fair for Ageas  to say the damage, which she described as four small dents, 
wasnt covered by the policy. She thought it was unacceptable several appointments over 
three months were  missed, and shed made over 20 phone  calls to try and resolve things. 
Our investigator thought the damage probably was too serious to be considered a minor 
dent so didnt  think it was unfair of Ageas to say it wasnt  covered by the policy. But in view 
of the delays and poor service, he thought Ageas should pay more compensation, so 
recommended an additional £200. Ageas  thought  £100 was more reasonable. 
As agreement couldnt be reached its come to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as our investigator.  Let me explain why.
The policy defines  minor cosmetic damage as a Chip, Minor Dent, Light Scratch or Scuffed 
Bumper, where the total damaged area is no larger than 30cm in diameter and 3mm in 
depth.  The photos provided by Mrs J show dents which appear small to the naked  eye. 
However, Im persuaded by the testimony  from the garage which provided the quote. They 
Ref: DRN87618382recommended replacing the whole door rather than repairing the dents, as the damage  
might be structural. This would indicate more than minor cosmetic  damage.
The accident  occurred  on 13 May and the first appointment with D was made for 20 June. 
But unfortunately the operative who turned up wasnt qualified  to carry out the repair as he 
was a paint specialist expecting to repair a scratch  rather than a dent.  The appointment was 
rescheduled for July but due to the software problems it wasnt  registered  on the system 
properly, so Mrs J wasnt notified  and the booking  lapsed. It was rescheduled again  for 
6 August and this time Mrs Js son took a days unpaid leave from work. But nobody turned 
up again. Another unsuccessful appointment was booked for 31 August, and around this 
time Mrs J traded  in her car.
Although the June  appointment was attended  by a paint rather  than dent specialist, I think  
that was the opportunity for D to have realised  there  was a possibility the damage may not 
be covered under the policy. And instead of simply rearranging the appointment I think  this 
possibility should  have been  fed back to Ageas and ultimately to Mrs J. This would have 
enabled her to claim on her general  motor policy for accidental damage instead, if she 
wished. And she wouldnt  have needed to keep ringing to try and reschedule the repair.
Ive seen no evidence  Mrs J actually  suffered  a financial loss, as she didnt pay for the work 
quoted for to be done. The cars condition might have been  taken  into consideration when 
Mrs J traded it in, but this would be hard to quantify and Mrs J hasnt provided  any evidence 
that the dents  affected the overall trade-in value. And I cant  be sure she would have made a 
claim on her motor  insurance policy, as there may be additional  factors, such  as the policy  
excess and no claims discount to consider. 
But I think Mrs J has been inconvenienced. Even  though  Ageas  has explained the problems  
arose from Ds new software, I think the number of missed appointments and the volume of 
calls she made  was unacceptable.  Recognising  repair appointments can only be made 
Monday to Friday,  Ageas  now says it could  have arranged to repair the car at Mrs Js 
workplace. That might have been helpful  if it had been suggested  at the time.  But it doesnt 
take into consideration the problems Mrs J experienced getting  through  on the phone  to 
make an appointment,  or the number of missed appointments due to the calendar  problems. 
Ageas says it wasnt aware  shed made  so many phone calls,  and had it known  it would 
have put measures in place sooner. But Mrs J shouldnt be affected if D didnt inform Ageas  
of the problems it was having. While  I appreciate Mrs J feels strongly about this, I dont think 
it disadvantaged her whether Ageas closed the claim as the damage wouldnt have been 
covered under the policy, or because she no longer owned the car. 
Where a claim is declined due to one of the exclusions, the policy allows  for a contribution of 
up to £150 for a conventional body  shop repair. So I think Mrs J is entitled to £150  for the 
repair, and I dont think Ageas can consider this as redress for poor service. 
So Ive thought carefully about an appropriate sum to reflect the inconvenience Mrs J 
experienced and I agree  with the investigator  that £250 fair. As Ageas has already paid £50, 
it should pay an additional £200.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Ageas Insurance Limited should pay Mrs J £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Ref: DRN87618383Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8761838