K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  credited 3p to his credit card 
account without  giving  him any explanation as to why this had been  done or how the amount 
had been calculated. He is concerned that the amount may have been miscalculated  and 
that he may in fact be due a larger refund. He asks for over £10,550 in compensation.
background
Mr M has a credit  card account with the Halifax. In October 2017 3p was credited to his 
account, which was described in his statement as an interest  adjustment. He complained to 
Halifax, saying that he had received no explanation  for this credit,  and had not been told 
about it (other than in his statement). He asked for a full and detailed  calculation of how this 
figure had been  arrived  at, so that he could  check  if it was correct, as he suspected that he 
may in fact be due a larger  refund.  He asked for a public apology, £10,550 in compensation, 
and a refund  of the cost of the stamp, envelope and stationery he had spent  on sending his 
complaint letter, which came to £3.36.
In April Halifax apologised and paid Mr M £50 for having confused  him. However, it insisted 
that the figure was correct and that no mistake had been made.  Mr M brought  this complaint  
to our Service. He also complained that Halifax had taken too long to answer  his complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Halifax had explained what  the 
interest adjustment was for in its letters to Mr M dated 10 and 28 November  2017.  It was 
interest for the brief period between Mr M making  a payment of £104.42 to Halifax and 
Halifax crediting the payment to his account  two days later. She thought  the explanation was 
clear and that it was likely that Mr M had understood it. She did not agree  that there had 
been any unreasonable delay by Halifax in dealing with this complaint. There  was no 
evidence that any banking error  had been  made or that there had been any financial loss to 
Mr M. In any case, the £50 payment Halifax  had already made to him was enough.
Mr M said he hadnt received Halifaxs letter of 10 November, and he suggested that Halifax 
had forged it after he bad brought his complaint  to our Service. The letter  of 28 November 
didnt mention the 3p. He said he had never  received the £50. He asked  for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I have seen Mr Ms statements,  and they show a payment of £50 was made into his account 
on 8 November 2017. That may well be the £50 which Halifax says it paid him, but I invite 
Halifax to confirm whether  that is indeed the case. If it has not paid him, as it said it would do 
in its final response letter,  then it should do so now, even though its more than I would have 
told it to do if it had not offered him anything.  Rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority 
require Halifax to honour a payment of compensation it has agreed  to pay.1
I accept that Mr M didnt receive  the 10 November letter,  but I accept that it was sent. I have 
seen no evidence that would support his allegation  that it is a recent  forgery. It contains an 
1 See DISP 1.4.1R(5).
Ref: DRN80419932explanation of what the 3p is about.  I dont need  to quote it here, as the investigator quoted it 
in full in her recent decision. (If Mr M no longer  has it, then we can provide it to him again.) It 
is sufficient for me to say that I have read it, and it is a clear explanation of why the interest 
was credited to Mr Ms account. (I have  already  described it above.)
The letters did not set out how the figure  of 3p had been calculated.  But I do not think it 
would be reasonable to require Halifax to show how it worked  out such a low figure. I dont 
think there was any need for Halifax to write Mr M a letter to tell him about it; I think  putting it 
in his statement  was enough. Nor do I think that a public apology  is warranted.
I have no reason to doubt that the figure  of 3p was correct, and I think  that Mr Ms complaint  
that he might  be owed more than that is speculative and not supported by any evidence.  But 
for the sake of argument, I will entertain the possibility as a hypothetical  question  and see 
what conclusions that leads me to. It seems quite clear to me that the interest  that could be 
earned in a couple of days on such a payment could only ever amount to a few pence,  and 
not hundreds  or thousands  of pounds as Mr M has suggested. The difference  would in fact 
be dwarfed by Halifaxs offer of £50, and so I would not expect it to pay any more  than that. 
Indeed, I think  that Halifax  has been quite generous; it has done more  than I would have  told 
it to do even if its calculations had been  off by a few pence.
Mr Ms request for £10,550 compensation is quite obviously excessive and wholly without 
merit. There is no evidence to show that he has suffered any financial loss. Nor can I see 
that, at the time, he was caused any material inconvenience  for which  this Service  might 
award him compensation. I appreciate that he has since  taken the matter  up with the bank 
and that this will have  led to him expending  time and effort on it. But I have  to say that I am 
minded to conclude   given the very modest amount  at stake in this complaint, and bearing 
in mind a similar complaint of his which I have recently reviewed  that this matter may well 
have been pursued in a potentially frivolous  manner. Should Mr M consider bringing any 
further complaint  to this Service about  a few pennies worth  of interest credits to his account 
with Halifax or with a third party, I am satisfied that it would be appropriate for an adjudicator 
or investigator to consider  dismissal  of the complaint without considering its merits  that is, 
that the complaint is likely to be frivolous  or vexatious.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019,  but there is no need for him to reply.  If we do not 
hear from him, then we will presume that he rejects my decision.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8041993