K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited didnt remove a duplicate claim 
from internal and external databases as it agreed  to in 2017. He says this has prevented him 
from buying car insurance policies ever since.
background
Mr K bought a car insurance policy  with CIS in November  2015. In 2016 it received  a claim 
from a third party. At around  the same  time,  Mr K reported the incident  but the dates 
werent the same. CIS made a number of attempts to contact Mr K to discuss the claim(s) 
but he didnt reply. It dealt  with a claim it received from a third party.  In September 2016 it 
cancelled Mr Ks policy because he didnt pay the premium he owed. 
In 2017 Mr K brought a complaint to this service about the fact that CIS had recorded the 
2016 claim twice. He was unhappy with the way it had dealt  with the claim. He felt the way 
his claims history had been recorded by CSI had been the cause  of subsequent insurance 
policies being  cancelled. He wanted CIS to remove the cancellations and voidances from 
record. 
We investigated this complaint  in 2017. Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ks 
complaints should  be upheld.  In summary he said that there  was no dispute that CIS had 
duplicated recording the 2016 claim. But this probably wouldnt have happened if Mr K had 
co-operated with CIS when it was investigating  the third partys  claim. And he found that the 
duplicated claim wasnt the reason why CIS  as the underwriter - had cancelled or voided  
subsequent policies Mr K bought: it was because Mr K failed to disclose any claim or 
previous cancelled policies. 
CIS said it would  remove the duplicate claim  from internal and external databases.
In October  2018 Mr K contacted CIS. He said his broker  recently  told him that it still had a 
record of the duplicated  claim from 2016.  Mr K felt this error by CIS had caused him ongoing 
distress and inconvenience. He said the incorrect information meant he couldnt obtain  
affordable insurance   and this meant he couldnt drive which had an adverse effect on his 
ability to work as he needed a car. Mr K says hes suffered financial hardship as a result of 
CISs failure  to remove the duplicate claim from his record.
CIS said it removed the duplicate claim from the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) in 
October 2017. But it didnt tell Mr Ks broker  and the broker has its own record of claims.
CIS apologised to Mr K for failing to update  the broker and paid him £100 compensation. But 
it said that as the broker provided policies underwritten by CIS  the error wouldnt have 
prevented Mr K from obtaining insurance  with other insurers  because  CUE was correct  
since October 2017.
In November 2018 Mr K asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator explained that we cannot  look at the complaint Mr K previously raised in 
2017. (Ive referred to it by way of background.)  So the issue  we looked at was whether 
CISs compensation of £100 was fair and reasonable for failing to tell the broker  it had 
removed a duplicate  claim from 2016. 
Ref: DRN83773962Our investigator thought that it was. Mr K didnt agree. So the matter  has been passed  to me 
to decide
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr K feels  we should look at things  again since he first complained  in 2017 because  he 
believes CIS made errors which have had a major impact on his life. He feels  the new 
information about the duplicated claim is significant.  
We investigated Mr Ks complaint in 2017   so we cant investigate them again over a year 
later. We can only investigate Mr Ks new complaint - that CIS failed to remove  the duplicate 
claim and this error has caused him significant  distress, inconvenience  and financial 
hardship. 
CIS removed the duplicate claim from CUE   which  is the external database most insurers  
use to check a customers claims  and cancellation history  in October 2017. It says that the 
broker Mr K contacted in October 2018  provides policies underwritten  by CIS. So the error it 
made  in failing  to tell the broker it had removed the duplicate claim  didnt prevent Mr K 
from obtaining insurance on other comparison  websites or with other  underwriters.  
Mr K previously complained about  the way CIS had recorded his claims history  and previous 
cancelled policies. But because  we cannot look at these complaints, I cant conclude  that 
CIS is responsible for the problems Mr K has had in obtaining affordable insurance. 
I understand Mr K will be very disappointed with my decision. I can see that weve  provided  
Mr K with other  contacts  to help him in his circumstances. But I think  the £100 compensation 
CIS has paid is reasonable for failing to tell the broker it had removed  the duplicate  claim. 
And this means  I dont  think CIS needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8377396