K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says HSBC UK Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Im sorry  its taken  a while for Mrs Ss complaint to reach this stage. Neither party  seems  to 
still have access to any of the point of sale documentation  which  does make finding  out 
what happened quite  difficult. So, because of these  uncertainties, Ive used  my experience of 
PPI generally to help me think about what is more  likely to have happened in this case, as 
well as referring to some  of the computerised records HSBC has.
We can say with reasonable certainty that Mrs S bought the PPI policy in 1999, most  
probably at the same  time as taking out a loan shed applied for. Its not clear  how Mrs S 
applied for her loan and PPI policy and she herself  cant remember:  some sales were carried 
out in branches  of the bank and others  either by telephone or post. Its unlikely to have been 
an internet sale given this sale was in 1999.
The PPI policys one-off upfront premium of £550  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term. The loan was repayable 
over a 54-month term and the PPI policy term matched that of the loan The monthly loan 
repayment was around  £72 with the PPI costing an additional £14, making the total monthly 
repayment around £86. 
The policy most likely provided  cover for Mrs S for accident, sickness, unemployment and 
life protection   subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Ss monthly 
loan repayment  for up to 12 months  for unemployment and longer for disability  reasons,  in 
the event of a successful  disability claim.  
At the time,  Mrs S was employed in the court sector. She was entitled to 6 months  full sick 
pay and certain redundancy protections. Mrs S has said she was in good health at the time 
of the sale. I have considered her circumstances with care in deciding  this case. The loan 
account closed  in 2002.
Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ss representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ss 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mrs S about the poor value;
Ref: DRN89139582 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs S and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
One of our adjudicators wrote to Mrs S some time ago to say they didnt think  we should 
uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their responses  to the 
adjudicators opinion. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  for several  reasons.  As 
the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss complaint
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN89139583The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ss case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs S and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs S know  she had a choice?
Ref: DRN89139584HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. As we no longer  have  access to 
the original paperwork, Ive used what I know about  these particular HSBC  sales.  Having 
seen quite a few of them,  and spoken  in depth to the business  we are familiar with the types  
of forma and processes  that were generally used. 
Although Mrs S says she cant remember the actual sale process anymore, she does  think it 
is more likely to have  been in a bank  branch.  We know that in 1999,  these sales did offer 
consumers like Mrs S the option of having  PPI with loans and I was sent an example  of the 
loan agreement forms that were used at the time. Looking at what  weve  been  sent  and in 
accordance with my own experience - I see that for PPI to be added  Mrs S would  have 
needed to have expressly consented  by signing her name. The costs of the loan and the PPI 
part of the loan were also set out separately, as were the individual  and total payment  
amounts. 
In short,  I think that because of the way this information was probably laid out, its more likely 
that HSBC obtained Mrs Ss agreement,  even  though I accept she might  not remember this 
now. Therefore, taking everything  into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs S knew the 
policy was optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
I cant say for sure if this was an advised sale, but on balance  I think its more  likely to have 
been. I think HSBC  probably recommended the PPI with the loan. This means HSBC had to 
advise Mrs S with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate 
or suitable given  her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I have no way of knowing  now what steps HSBC took to establish  whether the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mrs S. She cant remember clearly what happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. But in my view,  the adviser  
most likely had some limited information about  Mrs Ss financial circumstances although 
there is no specific evidence to show they took steps to establish whether Mrs S would have 
been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations. This might have meant the policy 
did not fully meet her needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest  HSBC considered 
whether Mrs S had any pre-existing  medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs S given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
However, while Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mrs S, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that her ability  to continue to meet 
the loan repayments would have  been put under  strain if she was not working  for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the sick pay benefits and / or savings she 
says she would  have  had.
Ref: DRN89139585-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs S.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs S. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ss employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mrs S cancelled  the policy 
early, there is nothing to suggest (at the time) that Mrs S had plans to repay  the loan 
early. The purpose  of the loan was not debt consolidation or anything  else which 
might suggest a need to repay  the loan early,  or that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  HSBC  
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs S was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  
I have reached this conclusion because I think a discussion would have taken place about 
whether or not Mrs S wanted PPI with her loan. As a consequence of that discussion, I think  
the computerised forms, with all the relevant information on them, would have been printed 
out for her to check and sign, if she was happy  to do so. 
From the example forms Ive mentioned earlier, I can see the costs were laid out quite 
clearly, as was the option to confirm she wanted  the PPI cover.  I think  the terms and 
conditions would have  been briefly discussed and the more detailed  rules  would have been 
available to Mrs S. I therefore think Mrs S knew that the single premium being  added to the 
loan was £550 and the interest added to the premium was £220. The total cost was £770  
and the monthly  cost was around  £14  all this information was, in my view, sufficiently clear 
on the loan agreement Mrs S signed.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs S agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs S Im not persuaded HSBC did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs S. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mrs S all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN89139586In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
What effect did HSBCs  shortcomings  have on Mrs S? To what extent did Mrs S suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mrs S. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs S 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs S 
would have still taken  out the policy, had HSBC done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs S, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs S has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, 
Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event. Mrs S says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs S had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
Ref: DRN89139587product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ss circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Although I 
consider it more likely  than not that Mrs S knew she was borrowing the money to pay for the 
policy and that it would  cost £14 a month,  Im not clear that HSBC told her the total cost of 
the policy over the loan term including the interest. 
Having said that, given the PPI part of the loan was relatively small and interest  would 
accrue over 54 months, the interest  would not have  made the policy  cost significantly more 
than Mrs S realised. So I dont think the missing cost information would have affected Mrs 
Ss decision to buy the policy in her circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs S would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which she agreed to the policy.  In 
addition, Im not persuaded HSBC made clear exactly what  Mrs S would get back  in return  in 
the event she made  a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mrs Ss expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs S thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs S knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  or received treatment 
for in the previous 12 months;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mrs S repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mrs S to have done so; 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs S pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs S from taking  out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to her should 
the insured risks have become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest she would  have been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mrs S didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and she was in 
permanent employment.  Mrs S also didnt likely need, and theres no evidence  to suggest 
she initially  intended, to repay the loan early. So, I still think  she had some  good reasons to 
take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
Ref: DRN89139588disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs S 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs S, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs S would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Mrs S made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs S 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs S would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs S 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs S in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mrs S compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ref: DRN89139589Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade 
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs S in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8913958