K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that her Santander  UK Plc credit card didnt work properly while  she was 
abroad leading  to numerous  card payments being declined. 
background
Mrs L notified Santander shed be travelling abroad  and intended to use her credit  card while 
away. Mrs L's credit card was declined on numerous occasions while abroad. Mrs Ls 
explained that this was inconvenient and meant the credit card couldnt  be relied upon. 
On Mrs Ls return to the UK she complained  to Santander but it didnt agree itd made a 
mistake. Santanders response explained  that the merchants shed tried to use her card with 
had done something wrong which meant  the payments were declined.  
Mrs L referred her complaint to this service  and supplied copies of some of the declined  
transaction receipts she had. Shes  advised  there were  many more she didnt retain.  An 
investigator looked at whatd  happened but didnt  feel Santander had made an error when it 
declined the transactions. The investigator  forwarded evidence from Santander to show  that 
transactions were  declined when a merchant attempted to process a payment without using 
the chip and PIN facility  on the credit card. 
Mrs L didnt accept the investigators  view of her complaint so its been passed  to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how frustrating it mustve been for Mrs L to be abroad and unable  to rely on 
her credit card. I understand it was inconvenient and embarrassing to have transactions  
declined. But I need to be fair to both sides and my role is to look at whether Santander 
acted reasonably by declining  the transactions. 
The systems evidence  Ive seen shows that there  were numerous declined credit  card 
payments. I know Mrs L thought there  mayve  been  more but I think its more likely  than not 
that declined transactions  wouldve been recorded by Santander  in line with the information  
its provided. But its clear from the information Ive seen Mrs Ls credit  card was regularly 
declined. 
However, Ive not found that was due to Santanders actions. The systems evidence shows 
that the credit card payments were declined when the merchant  attempted  to use the 
magnetic strip on the card to process the payment instead of the chip and PIN facility. 
Security controls meant Santander  declined attempted payments where  the chip and PIN 
werent used by the merchant. I appreciate that caused some inconvenience  for Mrs L but 
Santanders allowed  to decline  transactions if it has security  concerns. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that Santander fairly  declined  credit card payments in this case. 
Ref: DRN89898762Santanders also confirmed there  was no block on Mrs Ls credit card and thats evidenced 
further by the fact she was able to use the card successfully at other times, despite the 
declined payments. 
In line with the investigators comments, Ive seen  evidence  that Mrs L used her card abroad 
on 19 October 2018. After  returning  to the UK Mrs Ls PIN was reset on 22 October 2018 in 
branch. But as there were successful transactions completed shortly before Mrs Ls return to 
the UK Im not persuaded there were any problem with her credit card or any account blocks 
in place. 
I understand why Mrs L remains upset  by what happened but, for the reasons given above, I 
havent found any evidence to show Santander made a mistake  or declined transactions 
unfairly. As a result, Im not telling Santander to take any further  action to resolve  this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 7 March  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8989876