K821x#15complaint
Mrs Rs unhappy with the way Tesco Personal  Finance PLC has dealt with her credit  card 
account. 
background
Mrs R has raised  a number of issues about  her credit card account including  that Tesco  
didnt add refunds  to her new card, cancelled a direct debit, incorrectly  recorded a refund 
and the way it communicated with her. She wants these issues sorted and a refund of any 
interest shes lost.
Tesco said in its final response that refund or payments onto Mrs Rs account had been 
correctly recorded.  Itd tried to call Mrs R about  the refunds and had spoken  to a third party  
but she didnt  call back. It received an instruction from Mrs Rs bank to cancel  the direct  debit  
payment for the monthly minimum  payments. She can set it up again. It isnt able to agree to 
refund any interest.  It cant see any emails  Mrs R says she sent and doesnt  know the 
address she used. When phoning the automated system if it doesnt  have  a relevant option 
for the particular enquiry there is a general option  available. 
Our investigator felt that this complaint should be partly upheld. She said:
Two refunds were transferred to Mrs Rs new card. Doing so four days  after being 
asked to do so was reasonable and she wont ask Tesco  to refund any interest. But it 
wasnt reasonable for Tesco  to speak to third party rather than Mrs R. And it 
shouldve sent Mrs R a letter or email  to say what had happened  after not speaking 
to her on the phone, particularly as she wouldnt receive her statement  until a couple  
of weeks later. Tesco should  pay Mrs R £50 compensation  for this.
Tesco says it received an instruction from Mrs Rs bank to cancel the direct debit. But 
shes seen nothing  to show  Mrs R asked  for it to be cancelled.  
Tesco correctly recorded another refund on Mrs Rs statement and theres no interest 
due to her.
Mrs R was frustrated she couldnt  speak to a person  on Tescos phone  helpline  but 
the system it uses is a matter  for Tesco and we cannot comment  on it.
Mrs R didnt agree. In summary she says the direct  debit cancellation caused her problems. 
Her bank  didnt cancel it. Tesco didnt respond  to her communications.  It shouldnt have 
spoken to a third party  and she doesnt  know who that was. The way Tesco  has dealt with 
the refund  has cost her more interest. Shes  really  angry about whats  happened.
Tesco says it doesnt agree to pay £50 compensation. It doesnt follow up calls in writing. 
The third party it spoke  to said hed get Mrs R to call back. It didnt discuss her account  with 
this person. It simply said it was calling  about  a letter  Mrs R had sent in. Its records show the 
reason for the direct debit  being cancelled was on the instruction of the payer.   If Mrs R 
doesnt agree with this she should contact her bank.
Mrs R says shes been into her bank and under no circumstances was the Tesco direct debit 
cancelled by her bank. Its against  her banks policy to cancel one on behalf of a customer.
Ref: DRN80203542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
I think Tesco dealt reasonably and promptly with Mrs Rs request to make  the two refunds 
onto her new card. It also appears to have recorded  a third refund appropriately on her 
account. Overall I dont think I can fairly require Tesco to refund  any interest to Mrs R arising  
from these transactions.
Theres a clear difference of opinion between the parties about  the cancellation of the direct  
debit. Mrs R says she didnt give instructions for this and her bank wouldnt have  told Tesco 
to cancel the direct debit.  But Tesco  has shown  it received an instruction to do so apparently  
on the payers instruction. 
On balance I think Tesco acted reasonably  by acting on the cancellation instruction it 
received and I dont  think it did anything wrong cancelling the direct debit as it did.
Mrs R says another direct debit  has recently been cancelled  in January 2019. But thats a 
new matter she is now pursuing in a separate complaint.  So, I cannot comment  on it.
Tesco called Mrs R to discuss a letter shed sent in. It says it spoke to a third party who said 
hed ask her to ring it back. Ive listened  to that brief call and Tesco didnt discuss  Mrs Rs 
account with the male  third party. It merely said it was phoning  in response to her letter  and 
could she be passed a message to call back anytime as it was open 24/7 and there would 
be a note on her file allowing anyone to speak  to her. I think that was reasonable.
But when Tesco didnt hear back from her I think it wouldve been reasonable for Tesco to 
have communicated  directly with Mrs R. I agree with the investigator that Tesco  couldve 
done better in this regard and that its fair for it to pay Mrs R £50 compensation for its lack of 
and poor communication.
I recognise Mrs R is very angry at whats happened. But taking everything into account  I 
dont think I can fairly  or reasonably ask Tesco  to do anything more including  paying 
additional compensation over and above  the £50 recommended by the investigator. Overall I 
dont see any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right I think Tesco Personal Finance PLC should pay 
Mrs R £50 compensation.
Tesco must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs R 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN80203543If Tesco considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8020354