K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about the fitting of a boiler  that he financed through an agreement with 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi).
background
Mr F signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi in December 2018  for a boiler to be 
supplied and fitted by a company Ill call F. The total payable under the agreement  was a 
little more than £3,400.
The following  table contains a brief history of events:
date problem action
9 January 2018 boiler fitted F fit the wrong model. The 
model fitted requires  a 
header tank which Mr F is 
charged for.
11 January 2018 the gas cooker isnt working rectified by F
13 January 2018 the header tank leaks as a 
pipe hasnt been tightenedtheres damage to ceilings  
Mr F says it will cost about 
£500 to rectify
14 January 2018 the boiler isnt working and 
F find a blockage in pipes 
leading to the header tankMr F says they didnt flush 
the system as theyd  been 
contracted to do
17 January 2018 a third party company  
inspect the fault that is still 
present. they replace the water  pump 
and explain  that the system 
should have been flushed
19 January 2018 a further error code  and 
Mr F has to contact  the 
boiler manufacturers to 
attend as F wont. the manufacturers note that 
the NEST  system isnt 
working and F promise to 
attend
13 April 2018 F fix the NEST system
Mr F wasnt able to resolve matters with F so he made a complaint to Hitachi,  the providers 
of the credit.  He said he wanted  to be reimbursed for:
1.the difference in cost between the boiler fitted  and the one he agreed to (£250);
2.a new water tank, sealed system  and expansion vessel that had been recommended  
to resolve the difference in functionality between the two boilers  (£485);
3.damage to decoration  as a result of a leak (about £500);
4.loss of three days wages (£450);
5.a takeaway  meal hed ordered as he had no gas (£32)
He also wanted  the boiler  reinstalled so that he could benefit  from the manufacturers  
warranty as he said it was clear,  as a power flush hadnt been completed this was in breach  
of the terms. And he also wanted Hitachi to consider compensating him for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
Hitachi agreed to points 1, 2 and to refund £350  in respect of lost wages. They also offered 
Mr F a further £105 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Ref: DRN87100642But Mr F was disappointed with their offer and he therefore referred  his complaint to this 
service and our investigator provided his view. He thought that Mr F had provided evidence 
of damage to the ceilings in two rooms  and to the landing. He thought there was evidence  
that the blocked pipe that had led to this damage  had been caused by the system not being 
flushed. So he thought it was fair for Hitachi to reimburse the cost of redecoration if Mr F 
provided three quotations. 
He didnt think Hitachi should refund Mr Fs claim for a takeaway meal as he noted it would 
have been possible  for him to eat cold food but he did think Hitachi  should increase their 
offer of compensation to £200 as it was clear Mr F had been inconvenienced by not having 
heating for much of January.
Hitachi said a power flush wasnt offered with the boiler quotation so they didnt think they 
should be held responsible for the damage  to the ceilings in Mr Fs house.  So they asked for 
a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion. I know that will disappoint Hitachi so please let me 
explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through  a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. So thats the basis upon which Mr F has made a claim to Hitachi.
But when considering a complaint about a financial services  provider,  Im not determining 
the outcome of a claim that a party might have under  section 75. I take section 75 into 
account when  I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to 
reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach  if Mr F made a claim through them 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Here its clear there has been a breach of contract. Im persuaded that the boiler has not 
been fitted to a satisfactory standard and that the wrong boiler has been fitted. I dont think  
this is in dispute.
There are several other areas that are still contested so Ill consider each in turn. 
remedial work
Ref: DRN87100643Two third-party suppliers  have explained  that in their view the system hadnt been flushed  
before the boiler was fitted.  
Our investigator referred  to comments by a third party gas company that they believed the 
problem that led to the leak in the header tank was because  the system  hadnt been flushed. 
I can also see that the safety  engineer  who subsequently inspected the work had the same 
comments.
Ive looked at the email exchanges Mr F had with the company and Ive not seen evidence  of 
any fault before the boiler was fitted so, on balance,  I think its highly likely that the leak and 
the subsequent decorative damage  was caused by F failing to flush  the system.
Hitachi have suggested  that a power flush wasnt included in the quotation  for work. I 
disagree. Ive read the quotation and under  the section entitled  whats  included it lists a 
chemical flush and a water test to clarify the flush is effective.
So I think it would be fair for Hitachi to refund  the cost of redecorating. Since the investigator  
completed his investigation  Mr F has provided  some quotes for that work. Im satisfied that it 
can be completed for £600  so Ill be asking Hitachi to pay that directly to Mr F.
the takeaway
Im not persuaded Hitachi should  refund Mr F for the cost of his hot food.  I think it would 
have been feasible to obtain cold food and I can see that he wasnt without a cooker for long.
the compensation
I dont think £105  compensation  was enough given  the inconvenience  Mr F experienced. For 
instance, he was without a cooker for a day; without heating for about three weeks and had 
to coordinate rectification works. In the circumstances I think  £200 is more reasonable and 
Im therefore  asking Hitachi to pay that.
loss of earnings
I think sufficient recompense has been  suggested.  I say that because  the third day Mr F is 
claiming for was not a full day. Hes explained  that when he returned home to deal with 
issues the boiler had already been fitted so I dont  think  he would have needed to stay at the 
property for too long.  So I think  Hitachi  have  been  fair when providing  £350 here.
the system flush and the warranty
Im persuaded that a flush didnt take place and, as Ive explained,  Im also persuaded that it 
should have done.
Im not convinced by the evidence Mr F has provided that his warranty  would necessarily be 
invalidated. The warranty says that to get full benefits  of the guarantee  the installer will 
need to have complied with the installation manual. It goes on to explain that if any failure is 
caused by water contamination the visit from the engineer will become chargeable. Whilst I 
accept the chance of contaminated water is higher if the system  isnt flushed I also think that 
Ref: DRN87100644any contamination to the water after the boiler was fitted would potentially cause the 
guarantee to be challenged. 
So I dont  think its clear  enough that the failed flush would cause the guarantee to fail on its 
own.
And, regardless of that, Ive considered  the redress that Im not suggesting as a whole and in 
comparison with the £3,400 paid for the boiler  I think its reasonable and any further 
compensation would be disproportionate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc to 
pay Mr F:
1.£250 in respect  of the difference in boiler prices;
2.£485 for a new water  tank, sealed  system  and expansion  vessel;
3.£600 to refurbish damage to Mr Fs interior decoration;
4.£350 in respect  of loss of income;
5.£200 to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience hes experienced;
Hitachi should also remove any adverse reports they may have made  to Mr Fs credit  file in 
relation to this issue. They  can deduct  any refunds theyve already made to Mr F in respect 
of points 1 to 5 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8710064