K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss P says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss P says she didnt  know the PPI was optional. But I think its likely Halifax  did make  it 
clear that she didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because  the credit card 
application Miss P signed has an x in the box for Credit Card  Repayment Insurance. 
Its likely  this answer would have reflected the conversation  she had with Halifax  in the 
meeting. I note another box for a different product has been left blank, which  would 
indicate Miss P made a choice not take out that product but decided to take out the PPI.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss P so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover. While Miss P would have received sick pay 
from her employer, the PPI would  pay out on top of this and for longer  than shes  likely to 
have received her full pay. It would also mean she wouldnt have to turn to her parents 
for help with her credit card repayments  if she wasnt working.
I dont know exactly what Miss P was told about  the PPI when it was sold but its likely 
the information Halifax gave her wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  But Miss P 
chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have  wanted this type of cover. And she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations. 
In relation to the costs, I think Miss P would have  known she would  have to pay 
something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of her outstanding  balance. But I 
accept Halifax probably didnt  make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Miss P 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim wasnt  
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based 
her decision  to take out the policy on and found acceptable. I think  its unlikely better 
information would have put her off taking out the cover.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss P paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Miss P back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand  Halifax  has already paid this to 
Miss P.
Ref: DRN82284542my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8228454