K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about a hire agreement he took out with Lex Autolease Ltd. He says hes 
had multiple problems with the car and has sought  to return the car and end the 
agreement.
background
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint and my initial findings were  set out in my
provisional decision of 14 November 2019. A copy of that provisional decision is attached 
here and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded to uphold  this complaint and what  
needed to be done to put things right. I invited  further comments  from both parties, before I 
would reconsider the complaint again and issue my final decision.
Lex Autolease said it had nothing further  to add. 
Mr K was happy that his complaint had been upheld  but was unhappy with the £1,200 
award. In summary,  Mr K is unhappy that hes paid substantial sums  to Lex Autolease while 
his complaint has been considered and he doesnt  think its fair that he should  lose out 
because of the time taken to deal with his complaint. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  what Mr K has
recently said, to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional decision, for 
the same  reasons.
Neither party has provided anything new about the quality of the car or the extent of the 
faults or problems with it. Mr K is unhappy with the level of my proposed  award and believes 
he has lost out because of the time that has now passed while  his complaint has been  
considered. He refers  to additional rental payments,  insurance and servicing costs that hes 
incurred and the substantial sum this amounts to. 
My provisional decision refers to the extent of the faults with the car and the likely impact  it 
had on Mr Ks ability to use the car and its features. I set out that the faults did not prevent 
Mr K from using  the car for the vast majority of the time he had it and that courtesy cars were  
provided while the car was being  repaired.  I accepted however that it is unreasonable  to 
expect Mr K to pay for the full use of the car, through the full rental repayments each month, 
where he hasnt had full use of the car and its features. The level of the award takes this into 
consideration and also any distress  or inconvenience caused. 
My view on this has not changed and Im satisfied for the reasons previously set out that an 
award of £1,200 is a reasonable sum in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate Mr 
K remains unhappy with this and feels hes lost out, in particular, while  his complaint  has 
been considered.  I have  not seen anything to indicate that Mr K has not been using the car 
since raising the complaint and he has therefore still benefited from the use of the car during 
this time. 
Because Mr K has benefited from that use I think its reasonable to contribute towards that 
use and it would in my view be unreasonable to refund the rentals paid during  this period of 
Ref: DRN83859462use. This would essentially give Mr K free use of the car, which  I again feel is unreasonable.  
I again accept  that the car continued  to have problems and my award accounts for the loss 
or impaired  use throughout the time Mr K was in possession of the car. 
It is for the same reasons  that I think it would be unreasonable  to expect Lex Autolease to 
reimburse any insurance, servicing or other costs Mr K incurred through  his continued use of 
the car.  
I think its also worth noting that even  if the car had been taken back  previously Mr K is likely  
to have bought or leased a replacement car which would have then incurred  a cost for that. 
This would either be through monthly  rentals, loan repayments or perhaps  impacting on 
savings. That cost would have again provided Mr K with use of the car and while  I cant of 
course be certain what car Mr K would have  got, he would however be incurring a cost for 
using that car. That is a similar position to the position he has been in and for this reason, 
and those set out above  and in my provisional  decision, I do not increase the award  from my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
I appreciate Mr K may remain unhappy with the outcome of his complaint but Im satisfied 
my award represents a fair resolution  in all the circumstances of this complaint.  
My final decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd should pay Mr K £1,200.  If settlement is not made 
within 28 days of Mr K accepting this decision Lex Autolease should add interest to my 
award. Interest should  be calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of this decision 
until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83859463provisional decision
complaint
Mr K complains about  a hire agreement  he took out with Lex Autolease Ltd. He says hes had 
multiple problems with the car and has sought to return the car and end the agreement.
background
Mr K took out a three year hire agreement with Lex Autolease in September 2016. Mr K was hiring 
a car and in addition to the initial rental of £3,537 paid £589 for the remaining 35 months.
Mr K says that he had problems with the car immediately  and has continued  to have problems 
throughout the duration of the hire agreement. He refers to numerous  trips to the garage to have 
the issues  repaired and although some were repaired, some continued and/or  reoccurred.
Mr K is unhappy about the quality of the car so complained to Lex Autolease.  It considered his 
complaint but didnt accept the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was initially supplied  to 
him. It did however offer £100,  which I understand was for the way it dealt with his complaint.
Mr K remained unhappy with the response from Lex Autolease so referred his complaint to us. One 
of our adjudicators upheld the complaint  and explained why she felt the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality. She felt that Lex Autolease should  allow  Mr K to end the agreement  and return  the car. It 
should also make an additional payment of £250 to reflect the inconvenience and refund a 
proportion of the initial rental payment.
Lex Autolease  didnt  accept the adjudicators conclusions  and asked for the case to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
The car has now been  returned  as the end of the hire period has been reached. It is therefore no 
longer possible for Lex Autolease to take back  the car. Ive therefore set out what I think  is 
necessary to resolve Mr Ks complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Im planning to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K took out a hire agreement for a car with Lex Autolease. The car supplied was new and had 
delivery mileage only. The 36 month agreement meant that Mr K was required to pay £589  each 
month, in addition  to the £3,537 initial rental. That meant that for the use of the car over the 36 
months, Mr K would pay more than £24,000  in hire or rental payments.
In accordance  with the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA), as the supplier of the car to Mr K, Lex 
Autolease was required to ensure the car was of satisfactory quality. When  considering what  is 
satisfactory, the CRA sets out a number  of things that should be considered,  like the age and cost of 
the car at the time of supply. Satisfactory is defined as what  a reasonable person would expect, 
considering the specific circumstances.  As already mentioned, the car was new and Mr K was 
required to pay more  than £24,000 over the hire term. This is not an insignificant  sum.
Considering the car was new and the amounts Mr K needed to pay I think  a reasonable person 
would expect to be provided with a car that was free from even minor defects. I also think it would 
be reasonable to expect a new car to last for some time without experiencing issues or faults.
Satisfactory quality also covers  durability  and again in a case  like Mr Ks where  a new car is 
provided I think a reasonable person wouldnt expect things on the car to break  or fail for a 
Ref: DRN83859464reasonable period. Mr Ks contract only allowed him to drive 10,000 miles each  year so he would 
not be travelling exceptionally high mileage or therefore cause significant wear and tear issues.
In this case, Mr K refers to multiple electrical  problems,  including the microphone,  sat nav, 
infotainment system and the rear camera  - amongst other things. There  was also a problem with a 
seal on one of the lights which resulted in the light needing  to be changed and I note the brake  pads  
were changed, front and rear, to try and eliminate a noise. The car broke down and had to be 
recovered from the roadside  because of a body control unit fault.
I note that Lex Autolease accepts Mr K has experienced a higher  number of issues than would 
have hopedbut does  not indicate the car was not fit for purpose... I also agree that Mr K had a 
higher number  of issues than he would have hoped, especially considering the amount he was 
paying each month to use the car. But unlike  Lex Autolease I do think these  issues demonstrate the 
car was not of satisfactory quality.
Mr K had problems with the car within less than 1,000 miles. Other  problems materialised  in a 
relatively short period from when the car was supplied and Mr K appears to have  problems on and off 
over most of the hire period. A number of these issues are electrical problems and as is often the 
case these were I understand intermittent. I appreciate these issues can sometimes be difficult to 
diagnose and repair but that doesnt however change the fact that Mr K experienced the problems.
I again dont  think these  are the sorts of things that should fail on a car that was new from outset and 
has travelled  less than 30,000 miles at the end of the hire period. Ive considered what Lex 
Autolease says about electrical components needing software updates from time to time and I 
accept that is true with cars and the modern  technology they have these  days. I think  theres  a 
difference however  between  a software update to improve the features or functions  of a component, 
or to keep it in line with paired (such as phones)  devices,  and an update to correct what  is clearly a 
defect.
Mr K has supplied videos to show some of the problems hes experienced and I should be clear 
that these show obvious defects or faults  with the components. And I again think that considering 
these problems,  they do demonstrate the car was not of satisfactory quality  when it was supplied.
I understand  that Mr K had numerous  trips to the garage to get the repairs completed and I realise 
how frustrating and time consuming this was. Courtesy cars were I believe provided so Mr K was at 
least kept mobile. But numerous trips and calls to the dealership would  still be annoying and 
inconvenient. Especially  considering  some of the issues appear to be reoccurring  problems.
The problems Mr K experienced dont appear to have prevented him from driving the car, although  I 
do of course accept that he has had somewhat impaired use of the car being without  all of the 
features. Some of these features, such as sat nav and the rear camera would be problematic when 
not working. Although  Mr K has had use of the car, or at least a courtesy car, I think  its reasonable 
that he should pay for the use hes had. I dont however think its fair or reasonable to expect Mr K to 
pay the full rental amount  for a car that clearly didnt work  properly all of the time.
The car has now been  returned  as the agreement has come to its end so there is no need for Lex 
Autolease to take any further action in relation  to collecting the car. I dont believe there is any 
adverse information on Mr Ks credit file to be considered,  but if my understanding is incorrect I 
invite both parties to clarify that.
So all that remains is to decide what amount  would be a reasonable sum to reflect the loss of use, 
impaired use and distress  and inconvenience  Mr K has incurred  over the three year term of the 
agreement. Although  some faults did prevent Mr K from driving the car and having  to have it 
recovered, most didnt stop Mr K from driving  the car. The faults were  mostly from my 
understanding intermittent, so the features and components did work correctly  for a considerable 
period.
Ref: DRN83859465There were  numerous trips to the garage, multiple  phone calls and while I cant  hold Lex Autolease  
responsible for the poor customer service Mr K says he got from the dealership, I still think these  
faults and problems would  have been  a considerable inconvenience and disappointment.
Considering all of the above  I think an amount of £1,200 is a reasonable sum that Lex Autolease 
should now pay Mr K in recognition of the impact of supplying a car that was not of satisfactory  
quality. This amount is roughly around 5% of the overall rentals on the agreement and again  reflects  
the loss and impaired  use and the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr K has referred to the recent  servicing  costs he incurred prior to the car being returned at the end of 
the agreement. For the reasons explained above and considering the impact of the issues,  I dont 
think there are grounds for Mr K to be refunded those  servicing costs. I appreciate these costs may 
not have been incurred if Lex Autolease had accepted the adjudicators view of the complaint. But 
either party  could have asked for an ombudsmans decision and Mr K has I understand continued to 
use the car.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions from both parties Im minded to uphold  Mr Ks complaint and 
direct Lex Autolease Ltd to pay Mr K £1,200.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8385946