K822xcomplaint
A, a limited  company represented by one of its directors, Mr O, has complained that Society 
of Lloyds (Lloyd's) unfairly  voided (treated as though it had never  existed) its property 
owners insurance policy because Lloyds says that A didnt tell it important information about  
the type of tenants in its properties  when it took out the policy.  Mr A has also complained 
that Lloyds didnt refund the premium  in full.
background 
A took out insurance covering a large number of properties via a broker. According to 
Lloyds, A said before  taking the policy out that the tenants would only be either 
professional people or tenants placed  in a property via a local authority with tenancy 
agreements in place  directly between A and those tenants (DSS Direct Tenants).
A made a claim to Lloyds in 2018 after someone visiting  a resident at one of its 
properties had fallen and made a claim against  it. Lloyds sent a loss adjuster to 
investigate.
The loss adjuster reported to Lloyds that tenancy  agreements for one or more  
properties were arranged between the tenant  and the local authority and not between  
the tenant and A. They said the tenants included homeless people, people with mental 
health issues and ex-offenders.
Lloyds said that if it had known about these tenants,  it wouldnt have offered cover  to A, so it 
voided the policy.
A said it always entered into tenancy  agreements directly with the tenants.  It said it hadnt 
been asked about the status of its tenants  at the outset.
Lloyds said it had refunded the premium paid by A less the brokers administration  fee.
Mr O brought As complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
was minded to uphold  the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Under the law in force at the time when the policy was taken out in May 2016  (the Marine  
Insurance Act 1906)  both the customer and the insurer had a duty of utmost  good faith. 
When the policy was renewed, the relevant law was the Insurance  Act 2015, under which 
theres a duty to make a fair presentation  of the risk. This duty applied  at each renewal of 
the policy. Although  the law changed,  in general terms the position was broadly  similar: 
when buying or renewing the policy the insured party  in this case, A  was required to 
disclose every material fact they knew, or should have known, which  would influence a 
prudent insurer in deciding  whether to underwrite  a risk or what  premium to charge.
Its important to note that this obligation to disclose all material  facts doesnt  mean  an 
insured has to disclose  everything in minute detail. The insured complies  with this duty if it 
discloses enough  information to call the attention  of the insurer to the relevant facts and 
matters in such a way that, if the insurer wants more information, it can ask for it.
I think thats what A did in this case. It (or rather its broker on its behalf)  told Lloyds that the 
insured properties  were  let to either professional people or DSS Direct Tenants. I havent 
Ref: DRN88415722seen any information  which  leads me to believe that information was incorrect. If Lloyds  
wanted more information about what sort of people might be occupying  as DSS Direct 
Tenants, for example  ex-offenders or formerly  homeless  people  because it wouldnt find 
them to be an acceptable risk, it should have  asked A at the outset. I dont think it treated A 
fairly in saying that A should have known that this would be material  information  for it in 
assessing the risk of offering cover  to A for its property portfolio.
Ive also taken into consideration  the fact that in the policy documentation there was no 
reference to the type of tenants  other  than that they were Professional Let/DSS Direct. As 
mentioned above,  I havent seen any evidence that As tenants didnt fall into these 
categories.
Having considered the relevant law in light of the facts of this case,  Im not satisfied that A 
failed to make a fair presentation of the risk. So Lloyds wasnt  entitled to void the policy  for 
misrepresentation. To put things right, (subject to A repaying the premiums but less the 
brokers administration fee) Lloyds needs  to reinstate the policy  from the date it was first 
taken out. It also needs  to remove  any record of the voidance from databases and consider  
the claim in line with the policy terms.
As Ive provisionally found that Lloyds  needs to reinstate  the policy, I dont need to consider 
whether it should  have  refunded the premiums in full.
Mr O on behalf of A accepted my provisional  decision but queried  how Lloyds would comply 
with it since more than two years have  passed since the claim was first made. He also said 
A had taken out other insurance  in the meantime.
Lloyds said underwriters did make  it clear exactly what type of tenants they were offering 
cover for on this risk.
 my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained in my provisional findings  Im not persuaded that Lloyds did make  it clear what  
type of tenants  would be acceptable to it. It could, for example, have made it a condition of 
the policy that certain types of tenant would invalidate the cover. But it didnt do so. 
A had made it clear to Lloyds that its tenants  would  be either  professional people or DSS 
Direct Tenants. If Lloyds  wanted more information about the DSS Direct  Tenants, it should 
have asked A at the outset. I dont think its fair to expect A to know  what  sort of DSS Direct 
Tenants it wouldnt find acceptable.
I appreciate that after two years it may be difficult  for Lloyds to investigate  the claim.  Thats  
not something I can look at as part of this complaint. But if A isnt happy about  the way 
Lloyds handles that or the claim outcome, it would have the right to complain to Lloyds in 
the first instance, before bringing a new complaint to the attention of this service about the 
matter.
Ref: DRN88415723If Lloyds, upon  reinstating  the policy and considering the claim, determines that a cash  
settlement is payable then we would generally consider that interest  should  be added  to any 
offer. 
I understand that A might  well have  had to pay more for insurance as a result of Lloyds 
unfairly voiding its policy. To put things right I think Lloyds should refund the difference 
between the cost of the policy/ies A subsequently took out and what  A was paying  for the 
Lloyds policy. Lloyds  will have to add interest at 8% simple per annum (less  tax if properly 
deductible) from the date on which  A paid such increased costs until the date of settlement.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Society  of Lloyds  to:
reinstate As policy from the date it was first taken out (subject to A repaying the 
premiums but less the brokers administration fee);
remove any record of the voidance from internal and external  industry  databases;
consider the claim for personal injury in line with the policy  terms; and
refund the difference between the cost of the policy/ies A subsequently  took out and 
what A was paying to Lloyds with interest* (less tax if properly deductible) from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Society  of Lloyds 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to A, it should tell it how 
much its taken off. It should  also give A a certificate showing  this if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8841572