K820x#14complaint
P, a limited  company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly declined  a cheque payable  
to its supplier. It says this resulted  in immediate lost profit  of about £4,500 and on-going  
losses due to the damage to its relationship with its supplier. P is represented by its director,  
who Ill refer to as Mr A.
background
In November 2018 Lloyds declined a cheque payable to Ps supplier  because  there were 
insufficient funds  in Ps account. Mr A says he paid money into Ps account before 3.30pm 
that day to cover the payment.  He said Lloyds hadnt told him that it had changed its cut off 
time to 2.30pm. Mr A said he had an arrangement with Lloyds that it would allow payments 
to go through  provided Ps account was in credit by 5pm.
Lloyds apologised  for not telling Mr A its process had changed. It paid compensation of £500 
for the inconvenience,  £5 for call costs and provided  a reputational letter  and six months of 
statements. It also waived £215  of charges. Lloyds said the cut off time wasnt  a guarantee 
that funds deposited that day would allow a payment to be made  this was on a best 
endeavours basis. The cut off time meant that unauthorised  overdraft charges wouldnt be 
applied.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Lloyds had 
explained its cheque  processing procedure to Mr A. This wasnt a guarantee that payments 
would go through.  There  was no evidence  Lloyds had said it would process payments 
despite there being insufficient funds so long as a deposit was made later that day. P chose 
to operate its account in a way that risked  payments  being  declined. The investigator said 
what Lloyds had done to put matters right was fair in the circumstances. 
P didnt  agree. Mr A said P had a long standing  agreement  with Lloyds that it would honour 
payments so long as funds were paid in before  the end of the day. He said this was essential  
given the nature of Ps business and this was the basis on which  the account was opened in 
2008. Mr A said while Lloyds claimed  it had changed the cut off time to 2.30pm in May 2018 
it continued to honour  payments for six months  after that. 
Mr A said as a result  of the cheque being declined Ps main supplier suspended Ps account.  
P was unable to buy goods which it had pre-sold, resulting in lost profit of £4,500. Mr A says 
while the account has since been re-instated the declined payment harmed Ps relationship 
with its main supplier,  which no longer offers it credit. This lost P countless opportunities to 
profit which cant be quantified but likely  run into many thousands. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN85377392did Lloyds make an error when it declined the payment?
The terms and conditions  of Ps account  say that Lloyds  can decline a payment if there  are 
insufficient funds  in Ps account. If Lloyds had allowed the cheque payment in November 
2018 Ps account would  have been overdrawn by about £13,000 more  than its agreed  
overdraft. 
Lloyds says honouring payments when  there  are cleared funds by the cut-off time is on a 
best endeavours basis and not guaranteed.  It says customers should ensure there are 
cleared funds available before cheques are presented for payment. 
Mr P says he had an agreement with Lloyds that payments would  be honoured provided the 
account was in credit before the end of the day. When Mr A first contacted Lloyds about  the 
declined payment he said his previous manager  would call if the account was over its limit. 
Ps account was moved to Lloyds central  business relationship  team in June 2018. Lloyds 
business relationship team reviewed the account  with Mr A in August 2018. There  was a 
discussion about Ps business and renewal of the overdraft facility.  Theres no record of a 
discussion about payments being  honoured outside the overdraft limit. 
I think its likely Mr A had a relationship  with his previous manager which meant payments 
had been allowed in circumstances where they might otherwise be declined. But I havent 
seen evidence of an agreement that payments would always be honoured. This would be a 
change from the account terms and the way Lloyds usually operates  accounts. Id need  
more evidence about what was agreed  in particular the basis  on which  Lloyds said it would  
honour payments   to find that Lloyds  acted incorrectly  when  it declined  the payment. As I 
havent seen evidence of this, I dont  think I cant reasonably find that Lloyds made an error 
when it declined the payment due to there being  insufficient funds  in the account. 
did Lloyds make an error with the information it gave  P?
Lloyds says its processes  are continually under review.  Lloyds  apologised if Mr A wasnt told 
that as Ps account is no longer managed by a one-on-one relationship  manager  any 
bespoke banking arrangements  are no longer in place.  It says it should have told Mr A that 
the cut-off time to credit  an account for a payment due that day had changed.  
Lloyds accepts it might not have  given Mr A up to date information about  the cut off time to 
credit Ps account. But it says this relates  to whether a charge will be applied for an 
unauthorised overdraft: it doesnt  guarantee that the payment will be made. 
would P have acted  differently if it had known  about the earlier  cut off time?  
Mr A says if hed known Lloyds had changed  the cut off time hed have put other  facilities in 
place. He says since the end of 2018  hes been transferring in money  from other accounts 
with Lloyds each  morning, which supports what hes said.
is the compensation offered by Lloyds fair and reasonable?
Lloyds paid £505 compensation to P for its inconvenience and call costs and refunded 
charges for the unpaid cheque. It provided  (without charge) a reputational letter and copy  
bank statements that Mr A said he needed  to show Ps supplier. Mr A says Lloyds should 
also compensate P for financial loss. Ive thought  about what Mr A has said and he provided 
Ref: DRN85377393more information  about how Ps business was affected.  Id consider it reasonable to require 
Lloyds to pay compensation for Ps actual losses caused by Lloyds error and the loss was 
reasonably foreseeable. Im not persuaded Ps losses meet  this test. 
Im not persuaded that Lloyds is wholly responsible  for Ps loss. Customers are responsible  
for managing their accounts.  Ps directors knew the way Ps account was managed  meant 
that payments  would take it over its agreed overdraft limit. I appreciate  Ps account  had been 
operated like this for some time.  But I think Ps directors  should have been reasonably aware  
of the risk that a payment would be declined. 
Im also not persuaded that Ps loss was reasonably  foreseeable. The declined payment was 
for goods P had agreed to buy the previous week. Because  of the declined  payment Ps 
account with a supplier  was temporarily suspended. This meant it couldnt buy goods from 
the supplier which it had already agreed  to sell on. I dont think  I can reasonably find that 
Lloyds would reasonably have foreseen the losses arising from this chain of events.
Mr A says P has ongoing  losses due to its main supplier  no longer providing credit. Lloyds 
wouldnt know the basis on which P receives credit  from third parties. Even if I found that 
Lloyds could have  foreseen the supplier  withdrawing credit and the effect on Ps business   
and Im not sure I do  Mr A has said the losses cant be quantified. So I dont think  I can 
require Lloyds to pay compensation  for his.
I know Mr A will be disappointed. But I dont think its reasonable to require Lloyds to pay 
further compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  as I find the redress  offered  by Lloyds Bank  
PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8537739