K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in September 2007. Mr W says MBNA Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
MBNA sold Mr W the PPI policy during a telephone call in September 2007. 
Unfortunately, MBNA hasnt been able to provide a copy  of the call recording,  but this 
isnt surprising given  its nearly 12 years  since  that call took place. So I dont know  what  it 
may have said to Mr W when the policy was sold. But based on what I do know of 
MBNAs sales process at this time,  I think Mr W wouldve understood the policy  was 
optional.
Furthermore, the premiums for the policy wouldve  appeared on his monthly credit card 
statements - so if he hadnt agreed to the policy, or if it had been added  to his account  
without either his knowledge or his consent,  I think its reasonable to say he wouldve 
queried the premiums  shortly after the policy was added to his account in 2007. So 
taking all this into consideration, I think Mr W knew the policy  was optional and chose to 
purchase it because  he saw some value  in at the time.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him.  
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it wouldve been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. 
But MBNA will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
When the policy was sold,  MBNA  got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr W about  that. Because  MBNA 
didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, MBNA has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said  but these points dont change my decision.  
Ref: DRN89767332what the business needs  to do
MBNA has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. MBNA should also pay back to Mr W any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
MBNA should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mr W the difference between 
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. MBNA  should  also pay Mr W 8%* simple  interest  if 
Mr W paid off his credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr W. 
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8976733