K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc unfairly increased  the cost of their home  
insurance policy at renewal.
Throughout the complaint Mr and Mrs B have been represented by a third party.  However, 
for ease  of reading  all references to Mr and Mrs B include  the actions  of the representative.
background
Mr and Mrs B have  a home  insurance  policy with Bank of Scotland which  has been in place  
since 2003. In 2018 they received  a renewal notice informing them of the price of their policy  
for the coming  year.  They werent happy  with the price as the premium  had increased  17% 
from the previous  year.  They didnt pay to renew  so the policy  was cancelled  due to non-
payment. However  subsequently Mr and Mrs B paid to renew  and the policy  was reinstated.  
Mr and Mrs B made a complaint to Bank of Scotland. They said they felt the price  increase 
was unfair  and they said they only renewed  because of an ongoing claim for subsidence. 
Theyve also questioned whether the price theyve paid for their insurance was correct  in the 
previous years since their subsidence claim was raised and been ongoing.
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold their complaint. It said the renewal letter is just an invitation to 
renew if the quote is suitable. But Mr and Mrs B would have been free to seek alternatives  
with other  providers. It said it felt the increase had been calculated fairly in line with its 
general rates as well as other risk factors it takes  into account.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy  with this response  as they said the quote was significantly 
higher than the year before and way above  inflation. Further  they felt the fact Bank  of 
Scotland had badly  handled their ongoing claim for subsidence, this had impacted the cost 
of the policy. They  brought  their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
She said she had looked  at the cost of the renewals over the years  and felt Bank of Scotland  
had acted fairly in its calculations.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree, they said if Bank of Scotland had handled their subsidence claim 
better then thier policy would be cheaper. So it was responsible for the premium increase. 
They asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  a complaint of this nature, it isnt my role to tell insurers how much they 
should sell their policies  for. These decisions are based on a number of factors including 
how much  risk they are willing to take on. And it isnt for me to dictate this. So when 
considering this complaint, I have looked at whether Bank of Scotland has treated 
Mr and Mrs B fairly when calculating the renewal quote.
I can see that Mr and Mrs B have been customers of Bank of Scotland for a long time. And 
during that time their home insurance  premium  has increased. Bank of Scotland has 
Ref: DRN88599192provided a breakdown of the price  increase each year and factors that have affected these 
increases. 
The increase  from 2017 to 2018  is the most significant, so I understand why this may have 
been concerning for Mr and Mrs B. Bank of Scotland has said this was due to a number of 
factors. Some discounts that had previously been applied were  no longer applicable and 
they were notified  of an increase in the value given  for a specified item that year.  Further  it 
said it also analyses the individual risk presented by the insured and any changes  to this. 
Having considered this, I think  it has calculated the price fairly.  When there is an increase in 
the value of an item insured, the price of the policy is likely  to increase further than previous 
years. I can also see that in two of the three  years  before the 2018  renewal, there were 
discounts applied  to the premium. So again, I would expect there  to be an increase when 
these no longer apply.  So although  I can understand why Mr and Mrs B think the 17% 
increase is unfair, I think Bank of Scotland has demonstrated how the price  was calculated. 
And I think this was fair. 
Mr and Mrs B have  said that they know of other  people who pay significantly less for their 
home insurance. However insurance quotes are usually tailored for the needs  of the policy  
holder, so I cant reasonably compare the price of this policy to others. However although  
Mr and Mrs B have  expressed that they are unhappy with the price of the policy,  as the 
policy doesnt automatically renew,  they have still agreed to renew both in 2018 and again in 
2019. So they would have  had the opportunity to review the market before agreeing the 
renewal, in order to make  the best decision for them.
Mr and Mrs B are also concerned that the way Bank  of Scotland has handled  their claim for 
subsidence has increased the price  of insuring their home. They  say this is because  the 
claim has been ongoing for longer  than it should have been. As our investigator pointed out, 
any specific concerns about  the claim should  be raised with Bank of Scotland  as a separate  
complaint.
Ive looked at how Bank of Scotland has treated Mr and Mrs B and whether it has acted fairly 
in how it has priced  their policy. During  the lifetime of the policy  Mr and Mrs B spoke with 
Bank of Scotland a number  of times  and I think its fair to say they were  engaged on the 
price, as they sought a number of discounts  during this time.
There a number of factors that impact  on the price of insurance. New customer  discounts 
are often offered  at inception and these are recouped overtime  as the policy is renewed. And 
as time passes, businesses will re-evaluate their view of the risk and the price they feel need 
to charge to cover  this. And insurance  premium tax has changed  overtime  with this cost 
being added too. So even  if there is no material change to an individual risk, there are things 
that will impact  on the policy price and can cause this to increase.
In Mr and Mrs Bs case Bank of Scotland has said there hasnt been  a significant increase in 
cost for the policy from its new business  price. And this increase is broadly in line with what  
we know about  the level of new customer discount it offers at inception. In addition to this, 
there have  been  a number of material changes to the risk insured. Mr and Mrs B have made  
five claims on their policy including the subsidence  claim  and have  made changes  to their 
level of cover a number of times  all impacting on the view of the risk. 
Bank of Scotland has explained how these  claims and changes to the policy  have affected 
the price of it and Im satisfied these price  increases  have been applied  fairly in line with its 
Ref: DRN88599193view of the risk. There is no indication it has taken advantage of Mr and Mrs Bs situation or 
that the price  increases are a result of the ongoing subsidence claim. So I dont think Bank  of 
Scotland has treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly with how it has priced their policy.
Having considered all the factors that were taken into account,  I think  Bank of Scotland  has 
acted fairly  when calculating the renewal quotes  for Mr and Mrs B. I therefore wont ask 
Bank of Scotland to do anything differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I wont require Bank  of Scotland plc to do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2020
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8859919