K820x#14complaint
Mr K complained that his Santander  UK Plc debit card wouldnt work when he was on 
holiday.
background
Mr K told us that he went into a branch of Santander  and told it that he was going overseas 
on holiday. He told it exactly where he was going. He said that when he got there, his card 
wouldnt work. Hed used  cash he took with him for the first three  or four days, but then he 
couldnt get money out. He told us hed checked that he had money in the account before he 
left, but he couldnt get the money. He said that he couldnt eat, pay for his hotel, or buy his 
ticket to come back.
Mr K said that hed tried calling Santander but it was difficult due to the time difference. He 
said he didnt have  online banking.  Mr K said hed had to borrow money to return  from 
overseas, and would  now have to go back to the location hed been visiting  to pay back  the 
person hed borrowed money  from. 
Santander said that it could see that Mr K had been into a branch before he went  on holiday, 
but it had no evidence that hed asked it to note on his records  that he was going  on holiday. 
Santander showed us that a number of transactions  had been denied  as suspected fraud  
while Mr K was overseas.  It said that its security systems had tried to contact Mr K, and hed 
responded, but hadnt been able to clear its security. But he was still able to access some 
money. Santander said that transactions can still be blocked when a card user is overseas, 
even if theyve told Santander where they are going.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that there was no holiday flag on 
Mr Ks account. There might have been some miscommunication about that. But she said 
that Santander could still block payments if it thought that was necessary. So there was no 
guarantee that payments  or withdrawals would  be accepted while  Mr K was overseas. 
Our adjudicator said that Santander provides a 24 hour helpline,  and puts a contact number 
on its cards  to call it from outside of the UK. Mr K had been in touch with Santander when he 
was abroad, but hadnt been able to pass security.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Santander  needed  to do anything  more to provide  a fair 
outcome to this complaint. 
Mr K didnt agree with that. He wanted  his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman  so 
it was passed  to me for the final stage in our considerations of his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr K said he asked  Santander to note that he was overseas,  but he still ended up with a 
number of transactions being refused. But, as Santander has mentioned, putting a holiday  
flag on an account doesnt mean  that no transactions  will be refused. 
Ref: DRN86384622Some areas of the world  are higher risk than others for fraud,  and Santander still has to take 
steps to keep Mr Ks money secure. Security alerts can be more frequent  in some  countries 
than in others. This is especially  a problem when someones in a country where many of the 
ATMs only match the pin against information  held on the magnetic stripe to make 
withdrawals, and dont  read the chip. I understand that Mr K was in one of these countries.
I know that Mr K had difficulty contacting Santander, but I think  that was because  of where 
he was staying. I dont  think thats Santanders  fault.  I also dont think  its Santanders fault 
that Mr K wasnt then able to pass security when he did get in touch. And I think  thats likely 
to be why the problems with this card werent  resolved as quickly as Mr K wanted. 
I know that Mr K will be disappointed, but I dont think  that whats gone wrong here is 
Santanders fault. So, like our adjudicator, I dont think  it has to do anything to make up for 
this. I know how disappointed  Mr K will be by this, but I dont think  his complaint should be 
upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8638462