K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  allowed some unauthorised 
transactions on his account.  He would like to be compensated for the error.
background
Mr P noticed  14 transactions on his credit  card statement which  he had not made nor 
authorised.  The payments  appeared to be for in game purchases  on a games console.
Halifax looked into the transactions, and agreed  to refund them to Mr P within  approximately  
two weeks.  It offered no compensation for the error.
So, Mr P came to this service  and asked us to look into his complaint. He thought he should  
be paid for the stress and inconvenience  which had been caused.   He told our investigator 
that Halifax should have picked up on this unusual spending.
Our investigator did not think she could ask Halifax to do anymore  so Mr P asked that the 
matter be forwarded  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr P is concerned about these transactions  on his account.   We expect our 
banks to only allow payments that have been  made or authorised by us.  However, on this 
occasion, I am pleased  to see that Halifax agreed to refund the money in a short  space of 
time.
That said,  I dont think its right that it has not offered  any compensation here for the stress 
caused to Mr P.  He  may not have suffered any financial loss but still had to pursue his 
complaint. And I remind myself that the transactions were reimbursed on the basis  that they 
were unauthorised.
I think an award of £150 is a fair and reasonable one here.   It was a stressful  time for Mr P  
but the matter  was concluded in a relatively  short time and he was placed back  in the 
position he would have been in had the transactions not occurred.
In the circumstances, I uphold his complaint and award £150.
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  should pay Mr P £150 for 
the stress  and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8264040