K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Hoist  Finance UK Limited continued  writing to him after he entered into 
an Individual  Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). He says Hoists  letters caused him undue  
anxiety and frustration,  and he wants the compensation  its offered to be increased.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 August 2019, an extract of which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I 
thought this complaint should  be upheld, and I asked everyone to send me any further 
comments and information  before  I reached a decision. 
Hoist responded  and said that it didnt have anything  further  to add following my provisional 
decision. 
Mr K responded and said that he was unhappy  with my provisional decision given Hoists 
behaviour. He said Hoist had neither dealt  with his complaint nor offered him an apology. 
And he said that he was anxious about how his accounts had been reported by Hoist, 
because hed received letters telling him that theyd  been sold on with an outstanding 
balance still owed. 
So as no agreement been reached, the case has been returned to me and Im now ready  to 
issue my final decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions that I reached  in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
Mr K is still understandably  unhappy about  what happened.  In my provisional decision I 
acknowledged that Mr K shouldnt  have  found  himself in a position  where  hed needed to 
contact Hoist. And I acknowledged that what had happened must have been frustrating for 
him. But I also set out that I had to think about the actions of both Hoist and Mr K in deciding  
whether Hoists offer represented a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. By that, I 
meant what Hoist had done  and what it needed to do to put things right,  and what Mr K had 
done in relation to trying  to minimise the impact that Hoists actions were having on him. 
Having thought about that again here, and in view of the responses to my provisional  
decision, I still think that Mr K could  have taken action sooner to reduce the impact that he 
says Hoists letters were having  on him. 
Mr K entered into his IVA in May 2016.  But he didnt contact Hoist  about the letters hed 
continued to receive  until over a year later, in July 2017. Given the considerable worry, 
anxiety and frustration  that Mr K explained Hoists letters were having on him, and the action 
that Hoist took once  Mr K had been  in contact, I think  its likely  that Hoist  would have  closed 
Mr Ks accounts and stopped its letters sooner had he been in touch at an earlier date.  So I 
think itd be unfair of me to hold Hoist wholly responsible  for the impact  its letters  had on 
Mr K. 
Ref: DRN86660732That being  said,  since this services involvement, Hoist has acknowledged that it was aware 
of Mr Ks IVA in May 2016,  and it has explained  that a change in its complaint handling 
system made  that easier to establish at a later date. It has also offered £100 to reflect  the 
trouble and upset  that its letters caused.  I know that Mr K remains  unhappy with that 
amount, but following  the findings I made in my provisional decision Ive not been persuaded 
that this amount should be increased. So for the reasons given above and in my provisional 
decision, I remain satisfied that Hoists offer represents a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this complaint. 
Im aware that Mr K still has concerns about his credit file. But I havent been provided with 
any evidence to demonstrate that Mr Ks credit file has been adversely affected by Hoists 
actions. Hoist has confirmed that it has closed Mr Ks accounts, and has further told this 
service that it hasnt reported those accounts  to the credit reference agencies. So I hope that 
Mr K can be reassured by that.
Separately, I note that Mr K is concerned by letters he received from Hoist  in October 2018 
which said that Hoist  had transferred his accounts to another  named company as part of a 
restructure. Those letters showed Mr Ks accounts  as still having outstanding balances on 
them. But, unfortunately, because that wasnt part of the original complaint presented to this 
service and, as far as I am aware, Hoist hasnt had the opportunity  to consider that matter it 
isnt something Ill be commenting  on here. I do however think  it reasonable that Mr K should 
have this aspect  of his concerns considered, and so one of our investigators  will be getting in 
touch with him and Hoist  to explore that concern further.
I realise that Mr K may be disappointed  by my findings. But for the reasons set out above  I 
think Hoists offer of £100 represents a fair and reasonable  resolution to this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. Hoist Finance UK Limited should pay Mr K £100 
in compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN86660733Copy of Provisional Decision
Complaint
Mr K complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited  (Hoist)  continued writing to him after he entered  into an 
Individual Voluntary  Arrangement (IVA).  He says Hoists letters caused him undue anxiety and 
frustration, and he wants  the compensation its offered to be increased.
Background
Mr K entered  into an IVA in May 2016. He has explained  that at that point,  his IVA practitioner wrote 
to all of his creditors setting out the terms of the agreement and the payments that would be made  to 
them.
In July 2017  Mr K contacted  Hoist, who was one of his creditors at the time, to say hed been 
receiving letters requesting payment.  Hoist  told Mr K that it wasnt aware of his IVA and asked for 
confirmation of it. That confirmation was provided in August 2017,  at which  point Hoist closed Mr Ks 
accounts accordingly.  But Mr K remained unhappy that hed received letters from Hoist  asking for 
payment and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She was satisfied that Hoist  wasnt aware of 
Mr Ks IVA until hed made contact in July 2017. And that the letters Mr K had been receiving  were 
sent before that point.  Our investigator  didnt think Hoist had done anything wrong  and said that it 
hadnt delayed closing Mr Ks accounts after receiving confirmation of the IVA. So she didnt 
recommend that Mr Ks complaint be upheld. 
But, Hoist did some further investigating and told us that it was actually aware  of Mr Ks IVA in 
May 2016. So it made Mr K an offer of £100 compensation in view of that. But Mr K didnt accept  
Hoists offer. He said that Hoist had misled everyone and ignored his complaint,  and this had caused 
him considerable anxiety and might have damaged his credit rating. He felt a higher offer in the region 
of £500 to £1,000 would better reflect the anxiety and frustration that Hoist  had caused him.
As no agreements been reached at this stage, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently minded to find that Hoists offer does  
represent a fair and reasonable resolution. Ill explain why. 
This services role isnt to punish businesses when  things have gone wrong.  Instead its to look at the 
impact of whats happened  and, where possible, decide on what should  happen  to put things right. 
Receiving letters about payments for outstanding debts which were assumed settled, or at least  in 
hand, must be worrying. And I appreciate that in a situation  like Mr Ks, whereby hed entered  into an 
IVA but was continuing  to receive  letters requesting payment, that worry may well be exacerbated.  
Mr K has certainly  told this service about the anxiety and frustration that he experienced as result of 
Hoists letters.
However, when thinking about whats gone wrong and how thats impacted someone,  its important to 
think about what an individual did to try and lessen the impact of that worry or frustration. 
Mr K should not have  had to get in touch with Hoist. That, I fully accept. But the letters hes 
complained about span from May 2016 when  he entered his IVA, to July 2017  when he contacted  
Hoist. Mr K has said that he didnt expect matters to be dealt  with instantaneously after entering into 
his IVA, but that he did expect  the flow of demands he was receiving  from his creditors to stop within 
a short  space  of time. 
Ref: DRN86660734Having looked at what happened, it was around 14 months from when Mr K entered his IVA and when 
he made contact with Hoist  about the letters he was receiving. And I can see that Hoist closed his 
accounts shortly after hed been  in touch. So, I think it reasonable to presume  that Hoist would have 
done the same thing  at an earlier date,  if Mr K had made contact  sooner. Again, Mr K shouldnt have 
had to get in touch with Hoist, but had he done so sooner, I think he could have helped  to minimise 
the impact that Hoists  letters were unfortunately  having on him. So I dont think I can hold Hoist fully 
responsible for the distress  this situation may have caused. 
Mr K thinks Hoist might  have damaged  his credit file, but I havent seen a copy of his file at this stage. 
However, Mr K was in an IVA and had difficulty paying debts to a number of creditors. I accept  the 
chasers he received  were  inconvenient and may have caused him some undue worry. But the fact Mr 
D had struggled to meet  his credit commitments was likely to have had an impact on his credit file in 
any event. And I think its more likely  it was that, rather than the chasers from Hoist  alone, wouldve  
had a negative impact  on his credit rating. So without more I think  it unfair to hold Hoist responsible  
for that.
Having considered  all the available  arguments and evidence  in this case, I accept that Hoists letters 
had an impact  on Mr K. I dont think that he should have had to get in touch with Hoist to make its 
letters stop.  But I do think that Mr K could have got in touch with Hoist sooner and, in doing so, could 
have lessened the impact  that those letters had on him. I know that Mr K is unhappy with the way that 
Hoist dealt  with his complaint too. And I realise  that hell likely be disappointed  with my provisional 
findings, but for the reasons  given above Im currently minded to find that Hoists offer represents a 
fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.   
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and tell Hoist  Finance  UK Limited to 
pay Mr K the £100 it has offered him in compensation. 
If either side has anything further  to add, they should do so by 30 August 2019.  I will then reconsider 
the complaint before reaching my final decision. 
Ref: DRN8666073