K822xcomplaint
Ms R has complained about Barclays Bank  UK PLC and the issues  its caused her when she 
tried to transfer money from her UK account to her Australian account.
background 
Ms R called us as she was having  problems transferring money  from her UK account to 
Australia. She told us she needed this money transferred so that she could  evidence  proof of 
funds for any potential house purchase.
Before Ms R left for Australia she was given a pin sentry  device so that she could generate  a 
code allowing her to make this transfer online.  However, when she came  to use this, after six 
or seven  attempts it wouldnt work and she couldnt transfer the money.
When she contacted  Barclays it told her the error  messages she was getting was because 
on some  occasions she had entered the information incorrectly. And on others  it was 
because she had taken  too long and the session had timed out.
Ms R says this wasnt the case  on all occasions  and she had put the information in correctly 
and in time on a number  of occasions. She says the problem  is with Barclays system  and 
not her use of it.
Ms R says she has spent hours  and hours  on the phone with Barclays.  And experienced 
numerous different  problems when trying to transfer  the money over the telephone. She 
says Barclays have  been extremely unhelpful  and refused to call her back  when she 
requested call backs. She says that Barclays online transfer system is extremely  flawed and 
not user friendly.
Shes also told us that she suffers from a disability and dealing with these types  of issues is 
extremely stressful for her. Shes told us she paid for a professional to assist  her in a call but 
she had to cancel  this and pay a cancellation  fee, as her account wasnt  accessible due to a 
problem caused  by Barclays.
It appears now that the transfer has taken place.  And Barclays  says as a gesture of goodwill 
it has offered £50 towards the cost of her telephone calls.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms R first contacted  this service, she was having issues with her online banking and 
the payment that she needed to make hadnt yet been done.  So our investigators efforts  and 
the focus of the businesses response were on this issue.
Since then,  the payment has been made  and an answer has been  given on the online 
banking issue. Following  on from this Ms R has raised a number of additional points 
regarding her experiences  on the phone with Barclays. Its unclear whether these all relate to 
before our involvement  or after the complaint was already with us. But I think this is largely a 
separate issue to the original problem that Ms R brought to us. And I dont think the related 
Ref: DRN86668212issues regarding the phone contact, Ms R getting professional help and the alleged  issues 
with Barclays systems around  the times of the phone calls have been considered.
So my decision is limited  to the online banking problems that prompted this complaint and 
the points originally raised with our investigator.
Im sorry  to hear of the problems Ms R had with the transferring of money and the worry this 
caused her. I know how demanding the process  of buying a house  can be and I understand 
with Ms Rs disability this wouldve been even  more stressful for her.
Due to the nature of the problem that Ms R had. Its very difficult to be sure what happened. 
Obviously we werent present with Ms R when she attempted to make  the transfer  online 
using the pin machine.  And limited records are kept of the inputs made when  a transfer or 
login attempt  fails.
Barclays say that the error codes Ms R saw, show that the problems were  caused by Ms R 
inputting information  incorrectly and the system timing out because Ms R was taking too 
long. Ms R refutes this, she accepts  on a couple  of occasions she input the wrong 
information, but on the others she did it correctly. She says she tried on seven occasions 
and only twice was the mistake  at her end. 
Barclays says it isnt aware of any issues with its system at the time. And it is satisfied the 
problems came from user error  at Ms Rs end. I know  that Ms R is unhappy that this 
response is essentially computer says no. I do understand her point of view on this. And 
only Ms R knows  for sure what happened at her end. But I think  the strongest bit of evidence  
we have about what happened  is the error  codes.  And I dont think  theres enough evidence 
to say Barclays did something wrong  here,  so I hope Ms R will understand that I cant  uphold 
her complaint on this point.
Ms R says that the delay caused by not being able to use the online banking system, 
potentially caused  her to lose out on a house, she lost out with the exchange rate, it cost her 
money in international phone calls and caused her a lot of trouble and upset. Because Ive 
not seen enough to say Barclays  did anything wrong  in terms of the failed attempts to 
transfer online, I dont think it would be fair to make  any award for this. But Barclays has 
offered £50 as a gesture  of goodwill and Ms R remains free to accept this. 
The additional issues  that Ms R raised in terms of her phone  contact  with Barclays, will 
needed to be considered  separately if she wishes for them  to be looked into.
The transfer has now taken place so I hope  this at least given Ms R some peace of mind and 
that her house purchase plans have worked out.
But in relation to her complaint about Barclays online transfer  system,  I havent seen any 
evidence to say that Barclays  did something wrong. Barclays  has made an offer of £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill and this seems  fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  think  Barclays Bank  UK PLC made an error. It has 
offered Ms R £50 as a gesture of goodwill and she remains free to accept this.
Ref: DRN86668213Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8666821