K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Ulster Bank Ltd failed to remove her name  from a mortgage. This 
resulted in her banking  facilities  being withdrawn. She also complains that bank staff were 
rude to her and that her complaint took too long to resolve.
Mrs W thinks that the amount of compensation offered by the bank for their fault is 
insufficient. She wants compensation of £10,650  for the distress  and inconvenience 
suffered. 
background
On 7 June 2018, Mrs W discovered  that her accounts with Ulster bank had disappeared 
online. Her partner  called the bank to confirm that Mrs W hadnt been the victim of a scam.  
Mrs W says that the bank offered very little information and Mrs W was asked to call back  
the next day when customer services  reopened. 
Mrs W had a large amount of savings in her accounts  and, because  of what had happened, 
she says she had very little sleep  that night. Mrs W suffers from medical problems which  she 
says were exacerbated by this situation.  
Mrs W went to the bank  the next day. She was told that the reason for her accounts being 
frozen was because of an unpaid mortgage debt. Mrs W explained that the joint mortgage 
she had with her ex-husband had gone to him in 2006 as part of the divorce settlement. She 
said that no letters from the bank had been received by her about the mortgage since 
November 2006.   
Mrs W contacted  her solicitor the same  day who assured her that a Deed Rectification 
Agreement had been raised  in August  2013 which ensured that she had no financial liability  
for the joint mortgage  held with her ex-husband. The solicitor also called the bank who 
confirmed that they had the relevant documentation  from 2013.  A complaint was raised by 
the bank on Mrs Ws behalf.
On 9 June 2018, Mrs W went to the bank and was allowed access to some of her money. 
She was told that the complaints team was dealing with the issue.  
Mrs W says that she was extremely anxious, unable to sleep, suffering palpitations and 
blood pressure  fluctuations. She contacted her doctor and was prescribed Diazepam.  
On 11 June 2018, Mrs Ws solicitor  called her to say she had spoken to the banks mortgage 
debt recovery team. They had been  very apologetic.  They  later called Mrs W but spoke only 
to her partner as she was too unwell to answer.  
On 13 June, Mrs Ws partner rang the mortgage  debt recovery team to find that the person 
he had spoken  to had gone on holiday. No one could tell him if a case handler had been 
allocated to deal with the complaint. 
There was more contact  with the bank and then, on 20 June 2018, the banks case  handler 
called to say she would  be investigating  the case next. 
When Mrs Ws partner  called her on 25 June 2018, she said she would be investigating the 
case as soon as possible. 
Ref: DRN82474432She called Mrs W on 27 June  2018 saying that the bank had made a mistake.  She offered  
£300 compensation. She also wrote a final response letter  that same  day confirming that the 
bank had made a mistake.  She said all Mrs Ws banking facilities would be reinstated  and 
her name would be removed from the mortgage  with her ex-husband. The letter  stated that 
Mrs W should allow 10 working  days for the actions to be completed. £300 compensation 
was offered again. 
Throughout this time,  Mrs W says that her health  was affected as she suffered stress and 
inconvenience. She says that her existing medical conditions were  adversely affected. She 
says that she was tortured, humiliated, insulted,  frightened and frustrated. She thinks  that all 
of this couldve been avoided if the bank had called her or sent a letter explaining their 
concerns. 
On 4 July 2018,  Mrs W visited the bank to withdraw her savings of just under £40,000. She 
asked for a bankers draft and was told that it couldnt be provided  until she could provide  
written proof of the source of these funds. Mrs W didnt see why she needed this as it had 
been provided at the time she deposited the money.  She found the staff rude,  unsympathetic  
and unhelpful.  
After four hours at the bank, the bankers draft was finally given to her. Mrs W says she 
wasnt told that she couldve  withdrawn  £20,000 per day electronically without any checks. 
The bank sent a further final response letter in August 2018 accepting  that Mrs W had 
received a poor level of service on 4 July 2018. They  offered  her a further £150. 
Mrs W didnt accept the compensation  offered.  She felt that she should be paid £10,650. 
This was broken  down as follows:
£5,000 for mental and physical anguish  inflicted on her due to the banks errors  and 
poor level of service;
£5,250 comprising of £250 per day for the 21 days that she was unable to access her 
account and had to make frequent  visits to the bank to withdraw  money; and
£400 for solicitors  fees. 
Mrs W brought the complaint to us. 
Our investigator found that the bank had made errors. In particular, Mrs Ws name shouldve 
been removed  from the joint mortgage  in 2013.  She didnt think that the level of 
compensation offered was sufficient but she thought the level requested by Mrs W was too 
high. She thought that the bank should compensate Mrs W £750 for the trouble and upset 
caused by this matter.  
Mrs W didnt think this compensation was enough so the complaint has now come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mrs W wont be happy with my decision.  I think that £750 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in this case. I will explain  why. 
Ref: DRN82474433I think that the bank  shouldve  removed  Mrs Ws name from the joint mortgage  with her ex-
husband in 2013 when  they had the documentation to do so. The bank has accepted this 
and accepted that Mrs W has been  cause  distress and inconvenience  by their inaction.  
But I think that Mrs Ws request for compensation  is excessive. I fully understand why she 
thinks that she should be paid this amount as she has been  put through  much anxiety and ill 
health as a result of the banks actions  and I am sorry for this. 
Mrs W has requested  £250 for each  of the 21 days that she was limited  to withdrawing £250  
from her account. I dont think that this is fair compensation because  she still does have the 
money that was in her account. She hasnt lost anything financially by being limited to 
withdrawing £250. I accept that she had to visit the bank to make the withdrawals and that 
this did inconvenience  her. But, I think that the compensation suggested by our investigator 
covers this. 
The request  for £400 for solicitors fees isnt justified.  I think that Mrs W didnt give the bank 
sufficient time to deal with the matter before going to her solicitor. I think that the bank 
wouldve dealt with the matter in exactly the same way as it did without any input from the 
solicitor. So, I dont  think that Mrs W had any need for the solicitor in this matter. So, I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask the bank to pay these  fees. 
Finally, Mrs W requests  £5,000 for mental and physical anguish inflicted on her. Whilst I 
have no doubt  that Mrs W did suffer greatly  as a result of the banks  errors  and service, I 
dont think £5,000 is fair compensation. Our role at the Financial Ombudsman Service is not 
to punish a business. We work to come  to a fair outcome for all parties involved. I think  that 
the bank did make errors in this matter but I feel £5,000 compensation is too high. 
I find that £750 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience suffered by Mrs W is the 
right amount  in this case. 
I know that this isnt the outcome that Mrs W wanted. I hope that I have explained my 
decision adequately  to her.  
my final decision
Because of the banks error in not removing Mrs Ws name from the joint mortgage and the 
ensuing distress and inconvenience suffered as a result of this and of the poor level of 
service received, I require  Ulster Bank Ltd to pay Mrs W £750 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8247443