K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited refused to cover  the costs of 
repairs to his partners  car following a breakdown. Mr J believed hed added  a Breakdown  
Repair Cover (BRC)  policy for his partner to his and her membership in 2017.
background
Mr J was a member of a company of which Acromas  Insurance Company Limited 
underwrites the BRC policy. So for the purpose of my decision all reference to Acromas  
includes its agents.
In March 2017 Mr J contacted Acromas to discuss the renewal of his membership and cover.  
He asked to add his partner. This was done.  Acromas said it added  Mr Js partners car for 
roadside assistance, home start and relay cover but it told him only his car was covered 
under the BRC policy. Acromas sent out documentation to show  the additional cover for his 
partner to Mr J in March 2017. 
In February 2018  it renewed Mr J and his partners cover on the same terms as the year 
before. In October 2018  Mr Js partners car broke  down. It wasnt possible for a patrolman 
to repair  her car at the roadside,  so her car was towed to a garage. When  the garage  
contacted Acromas to authorise repairs, it said Mr Js partners car wasnt  covered under the 
BRC policy. 
Mr J complained to Acromas. He believed he asked for his partner to have identical cover to 
him when  he added her as a member in 2017. And he said an online app on his mobile 
phone showed  that his partners car had BRC before the breakdown.  
Acromas didnt uphold  Mr Js complaint. It said it told Mr J in the key call in March 2017  that 
only his car had BRC. And in the documents it sent him in 2017 and 2018, it showed only his 
car as having this cover. 
Our investigator thought it was a finely balanced case. Initially  he thought  Acromas  hadnt 
been quite clear enough in the call with Mr J in March 2017.  Mr J had explained that he and 
his partner share cars  and that he didnt ask for only his car to have  BRC.  And because  
the app incorrectly  showed that Mr Js partners  car had BRC, he thought on balance 
Acromas should cover  the costs of the repairs to Mr Js partners car.
Acromas didnt agree. It provided further information  to show that none of the documentation  
it sent indicated  that Mr Js partners car had BRC. It said there was a temporary  issue  with 
the online app. But it was able to show that during this period, Mr J checked  his app once - a 
few days before the incident. So even if Mr J and his partner were to rely on the information  
it saw then, under the terms of the policy, the repairs still werent covered. This is because 
there is a wait period of fourteen days from the date the BRC policy starts to when a claim 
can be made for repairs.
The investigator reconsidered and no longer thought Acromas had acted unreasonably. 
Mr J didnt agree. He believed both cars had the same level of cover. Hes unhappy that the 
online app wasnt reliable.  So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
Ref: DRN82740932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the key calls as Acromas has provided a recording of them. In March  2017 
Mr J asked to add his partner as a member.  This meant she was to benefit from roadside  
assistance, relay, and home start.  Toward the end of the call, the agent summarised what  
would happen  next. She explained that she would send out revised  documents  and two 
membership cards. Mr J checked  with the agent  if everything was to stay the same  but 
with the upgrade on top. The agent said yes. She continued:
So at the minute its just your (make  of Mr Js car) that well go out to  but from 
17th (March  2017) it will cover you both as a driver or a passenger in any car. Youre 
going to keep the breakdown repair just for the (Mr Js car) and then the additional  
service you will get is the same as the mobile  onward  travel  option. OK Sir? But Ive 
got your documents coming out
Mr J confirmed this was ok. 
Acromas provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mr J on 15 March 2017. This shows his 
partner was added as a member.  One the second  page it sets out the level of cover  as 
follows:
Personal Joint membership for Mr J and Miss K
Breakdown Repair Cover  for vehicle: (Mr Js registration details only).
Acromas said the mobile app error  was temporary.  Mr J doesnt agree and says it was there 
from the point he added  his partners details  to it. I dont think  it was helpful that the online 
app incorrectly showed that Mr Js partner has BRC. But  overall  I think theres  enough to 
show me that Acromas  was reasonable to decline the claim for repairs  to Mr Js partners 
car. In the key call in March 2017, the updated  letter from Acromas confirming the additional 
membership of Mr Js partner - and the renewal documents  in 2018, only Mr Js car is listed 
as having BRC. 
I understand Mr J will be disappointed with my decision. But on balance I think Acromas 
acted reasonably and in line with the cover  available. So I dont think  it needs to do any 
more. 
Ref: DRN82740933my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8274093