K821x#15complaint
Miss J has complained The Co-operative Bank plc wont  remove a fraud-related marker it 
placed on her record  in 2018.
background
In March 2018 Miss J told the Co-op there were two transactions  (for £280 and £250) made 
over the two preceding days which she hadnt made. Within a few days  the Co-op refunded  
Miss J.
In a further conversation with the Co-op on 11 April, Miss J told them  shed met someone 
through a dating website. His daughter had been  very ill and shed felt pressured into helping 
out. Shed  sent him money. Shed even taken out loans to get more money to give to him. 
Co-op tried to help her keep her money  safe.  They did ask whether the two payments from 
her account  in March  were related  to this. She denied  this.
Later that month  Miss J contacted Co-op  to admit she had made the two transactions 
herself. Shed been under  a great deal of emotional  strain and now regretted  telling them  
they were fraud. The Co-op closed Miss Js account and lodged a fraud-related  marker on 
the fraud industry  database, CIFAS. Miss J believed the marker was unfair  and brought her 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator agreed Co-op  hadnt  acted unfairly in closing  Miss Js account  but felt theyd 
not taken the wider  issues into consideration when considering whether to remove the 
CIFAS marker.  She asked them to remove it. The Co-op wouldnt agree to do this. They felt 
they had an obligation under industry  rules to lodge  this marker. Miss J accepted the Co-op 
could close her account but still wanted the CIFAS  marker removed.
Miss Js complaint has been  referred  to an ombudsman for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons.
Firstly all parties agree theres  no real dispute  what happened here. Miss J claimed  back 
some money then admitted shed made these payments herself.  I dont see any need to go 
into much  further detail about  those transactions.
But like our investigator I think the wider context  is relevant. 
Miss J wasnt just a victim  of a scam  but was more than likely a victim of emotional and 
financial abuse. She took out two large  loans and paid out large amounts of money to 
someone pretending to be her partner, and potentially  pretending to have a very ill daughter. 
This would all have  been heart-rending for Miss J. Afterwards  and shes  now reported  what 
happened to the police  and disengaged herself from the person taking advantage of her  
shes told us how difficult the whole period was for her. A CIFAS  marker seems to me to be 
an inappropriate way of victimising Miss J further.
Ref: DRN80685802I can imagine  during the time she was having  contact with the person, she felt under  a lot of 
emotional pressure  and then embarrassed about  what was going  on. Ive noted Miss J came 
clean herself with Co-op even after elaborating on her fraud story when she spoke to them 
again in April. There are a number of phone calls between the Co-op and Miss J.
So what  good  will a CIFAS marker do apart from marking her as a fraudster?  She doesnt 
come over to me as a hardened criminal wholl be carrying  out any more fraud in the future. 
Im sure the Co-op can ensure they have internal systems sufficient to avoid them giving her 
an account again.
Ive heard what the Co-op have told us that theyll be going against CIFAS  procedures in 
getting the CIFAS  marker  removed. I dont agree because  firstly  I think  theres enough  
evidence to say this marker  hasnt been applied fairly  in Miss Js case.  CIFAS  is an industry 
body. The Co-op  will play a role in deciding policy and procedures  so its not as if they have 
no influence in what CIFAS does. They wont be the first bank told to remove a CIFAS 
marker so Im sure there must be flexibility to remove CIFAS  markers where theyve  been  
instructed to do so by the ombudsman service.
For the avoidance of doubt Im satisfied this CIFAS  marker is disproportionate as I dont 
believe Miss J is a fraudster.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  The Co-operative Bank plc to 
remove the fraud-related  marker it has placed on Miss Js record.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8068580