K821x#15Complaint
Ms W says Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly  lent to her because at the time 
she had the facility she was in a debt spiral and the facility was unaffordable. Ms W says 
Drafty continued to give her more loans when it must have  seen the pattern she was in.
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  24 April 2020. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Ms W accepted the findings  
of the provisional  decision. Drafty  didnt  respond.  
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms W accepted the provisional decision  and Drafty didnt respond with any further 
comments or evidence it wanted  me to consider, I see no reason to depart  from the findings  
that I previously outlined in my provisional  decision.  
So, in summary,  I still think Drafty  was wrong to have allowed Ms W to drawdown on her 
facility from 24 October  2016. 
Putting things  right  what  I currently think  Drafty needs to do
If the debt has been  sold to a third party, Drafty should, if it wishes,  buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress  below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve  the same  results. 
Remove all unpaid  interest, fees and charges from the outstanding  balance that were 
applied from 24 October  2016
Drafty  should rework the account  from 24 October 2016 so Ms W only has to repay 
the principal borrowed  and it should treat any repayments made by Ms W (to Drafty 
and the third party)  as if it went  towards the principal  balance.
If and when Ms W had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment 
should be refunded to Ms W. To this overpayment 8% simple  a year interest should 
be added  from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above,  an outstanding principal balance remains,  Drafty 
should try and make an arrangement with Ms W to repay the balance. But Id remind 
Drafty of its obligation to treat Ms W fairly.  
Remove any negative  information from Ms Ws credit file from 24 October  2016.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Ref: DRN81867012Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Ms Ws 
complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Ms W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81867013EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms W says Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly lent to her because at the time she had 
the facility she was in a debt spiral and the facility  was unaffordable. Ms W says Drafty continued  to 
give her more loans when it must have seen the pattern she was in.
background
Ms W approached  Drafty for a revolving  credit line in November 2015. The latest correspondence  
received from Drafty shows Ms Ws account was transferred to a collection agency in March 2017 
with an outstanding  balance.  And since then, Ms W has been making payments to reduce  the 
balance. 
Ms Ws Drafty  facility  was a revolving credit line where a consumer could either  request funds  up to 
their agreed  credit limit in one go or take multiple  drawdowns up to their limit  but the minimum 
drawdown was £50. 
In our adjudicators  latest findings,  he didnt think Drafty was wrong  to approve Ms Ws facility.  But 
from the way she used it, our adjudicator  thought Drafty should have seen Ms W was showing signs 
that she was struggling to repay it. He explained that she was showing signs of relying  on the facility  
and she also had a number of outstanding short term loans. Due to this, our adjudicator thought 
Drafty should have halted any further borrowing from 
28 April 2016 onwards. 
Ms W appears to have agreed with the adjudicators  recommendation.
Drafty has told us it disagrees  for the following reasons:
Drafty completed proportionate checks and the information  it gathered suggested 
Ms Ws facility  was affordable.
Ms Ws used on average 80% of her available  credit and May and September  2016 Ms W 
didnt use the facility at all. 
Ms Ws behaviour at Drafty coupled with the monthly credit bureau data showed no signs 
indicating that she was in financial distress  - hence it did not have a reason  to ask for the 
bank statements  from her.
As no agreement was reached, the case has now been  passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having thought about the above, as well as the evidence available to me, Ive provisionally  decided to 
still partly uphold Ms Ws complaint but the point at which I think Drafty  made  an error is different.
When the facility  was approved,  Drafty  needed  to take proportionate steps to ensure  a consumer 
would be able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner  without it adversely 
impacting on their financial situation. Put simply, Drafty had to gather enough  information  so that it 
could make an informed decision on the lending.
Ref: DRN81867014Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender could 
take into account  before  agreeing to lend.  The key thing was that it required a lenders  checks  to be 
proportionate. And any checks had to take into account a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
To be clear,  Ms W wasnt given a payday loan where she had to repay  all of what she borrowed plus 
the interest due when  she next got paid. She was given  a facility  where there was an expectation that 
shed repay  what she borrowed plus the interest due within a period of at least 12 months. So overall, 
I think  that this means the checks  Drafty carried out had to provide enough information for it to be able 
to understand whether Ms W would  likely be able to service and then repay this facility within a 
reasonable period of time.
To start, Ms W was granted a running  credit facility  with a £500 limit. According to the credit 
agreement, had she drawn down the full amount on the first day of having  the facility,  and ran the 
facility for 12 months, she wouldve paid a total of £659.65. This means  the monthly repayment Ms W 
would be expected to make  would be around £55 per month.
 
Before granting the facility,  Drafty  asked  Ms W about her monthly  income and expenditure. Ms W 
confirmed her monthly income was £1,300 and her monthly  expenditure  was £350.  Drafty has also 
told us that it completed  an internal affordability assessment  and added  a further £137 on top of Ms 
Ws declared monthly expenditure. It did this to understand what repayment amount she could 
comfortably afford. Drafty also completed a credit check. Based on the information that Drafty 
gathered, it seemed that Ms W would be able to afford the repayments she was committed  to making.  
At the start of the lending relationship, it wouldnt be unreasonable for Drafty to have relied on the 
information it was provided. And the information  Ms W declared about her circumstances, coupled 
with the results of her credit  check, suggested she could afford the facility she applied  for. So, taking 
into account  the individual  circumstances of this case. I dont  think Drafty needed to do more before 
this facility was granted.
Our adjudicator thought that Ms W was using  her credit facility the same way as someone taking a 
series of payday loans. He could  see that when  Ms W settled her outstanding balance, she then 
would request  further withdrawals  shortly after which took her back up to her credit limit.  Our 
adjudicator thought this pattern of borrowing was established by 28 April 2016.  And had Drafty 
completed further checks at this point,  it would  have seen that Ms W was borrowing  from short  term 
lenders. Due to this, he thought Drafty should have halted any further borrowing from 28 April 2016.
As Ive explained, Drafty  wasnt expecting Ms W to repay her balance in full each month;  it was 
expecting her to repay it over a reasonable  period  of time with a minimum payment  of £50. I can see 
at the start of the relationship, Ms W was initially repaying the minimum payment and I dont think the 
way she used  her facility  for the first couple of months wouldve given Drafty cause for concern. 
Ms Ws borrowing history shows she was generally  borrowing the majority  of her credit limit, repaying  
her balance  in full, and coming back for new lending within a few weeks. I agree with our adjudicator 
that Drafty should have had concerns about  the sustainability of Ms Ws facility  towards the end of 
April 2016. But shortly  after repaying her balance in full on 4 May 2016, Ms W didnt  use her account  
for four months. So its difficult to say there was an underlying problem  and that Drafty should have  
stopped lending at this point,  because it seems that Ms W chose not to borrow from it going forwards.
In September 2016, Ms W started using  her facility again. And she started  showing signs of exhibiting  
the same behaviour as before her four month break. She proceeded  to borrow  £400 and then repay 
this in full by making  a payment of £408.28  at the end of September 2016. But within  11 days, Ms W 
had come back for further monies, borrowing her full credit limit by 23 October  2016. She repaid her 
balance in full a day later on 24 October 2016. 
At this point, Drafty should have seen a pattern had emerged where Ms W needed to borrow each 
month  the same way she did before  her four month break. I think Draftys checks  needed to go 
Ref: DRN81867015beyond credit  checks and go straight to verifying  Ms Ws circumstances to ensure  the facility  was still 
sustainable for her. 
I think  that a closer look at Ms Ws finances wouldve shown  Drafty that she was borrowing  from 
multiple short  term lenders in order to cover an ongoing  short fall in her monthly outgoings  most  
likely caused by having  to repay other lenders. And knowing this, I dont think Drafty  shouldve 
continue allowing  further drawdowns after she repaid her balance in full on 24 October 2016.
So Im intending to uphold  Ms Ws complaint from 24 October  2016. Drafty  should put things right as 
detailed below.
Ref: DRN8186701