K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Available Car Ltd mis-sold  part of the hire purchase agreement  (HPA) it 
arranged between her and a finance  provider. She says that the terms were not as agreed.
background
Mr B entered into a HPA with a finance  provider in August 2017. She says that Available Car 
changed the agreement from what had been  agreed and she was concerned  that she would 
be charged additional amounts. She said that the finance provider  had provided  a refund of 
£91.40 in recognition of her complaint but that Available Car had not responded within  the 
eight week timeframe.
Ms B says that a deposit was never  mentioned but this was included in the HPA.  She then 
said that the dash camera  and Guaranteed  Asset  Protection (GAP) insurance were  agreed 
to be paid for as stand  alone items but these were  then included  in the HPA. 
Available Car says that Ms B visited its showroom on 19 August 2017. After  she agreed to 
acquire the car, it says it provided Ms B with details of the options available  to her including 
extra features,  finance  and insurance. It says it explained extended warranty  options  and 
GAP insurance and that these could be paid for in full, with 0% finance or as a deposit.
Ms B decided to acquire  the car through  a HPA and it says she was happy with the monthly 
payment amounts. She was accepted  for the finance and collection of the car was arranged. 
It says on collection Ms B questioned how the figures appeared. It says it explained these to 
Ms B and that Ms B was offered time to review the agreement before signing. Ms B signed  
the documents and took delivery of the car.
Available Car says that the figures on the agreement  are correct. It says if the documents 
were changed  to accommodate Ms Bs request there would be no financial change.  
Our investigator did not think that there had been any detriment to Ms B. He said that 
although the agreement could have  been easier  to understand the figures  credited  to Ms B 
were correct. He noted that Ms B had been refunded £91.40  by the finance provider so any 
potential interest on the GAP insurance had been refunded. He said that the GAP insurance  
was a separate product  and that if cancelled there could be a refund for the period not used.
Ms B did not accept  our investigators  view. She reiterated that the dash camera  and GAP 
insurance were bought  as stand alone  items  and so no interest  should  have been charged 
and they shouldnt form part of the HPA. She said that the two products were  
misrepresented and had they been  properly sold then she would not have purchased  them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Available Car acted  as a credit broker by arranging  the finance  for Ms B to acquire her car. It 
is in this role that I am considering this complaint.
 
Ms B complains  that her HPA does  not reflect the agreement  she made with Available Car. 
She feels that the two additional products she was sold were  misrepresented and that had 
Ref: DRN80217372these been properly explained she would not have acquired them as individual  items.  She 
further said that there was no benefit to acquiring  the items in advance as they were  always  
going to form part of the HPA.
I have looked  through  the information provided and can see from the sales invoice that the 
cost of the car was £6,199. Ms B also acquired  a dashboard camera  for £229  and GAP 
insurance for £319. Ms B has also said that she agree to acquire a warranty  for £759 to 
cover 36 months payable with no interest  over 24 months. This is not part of this complaint.  
Ms B paid upfront for the dashboard camera and the GAP insurance  and a receipt has been 
provided for the total amount of £548.
Mr B believed that these  items were bought separately from the HPA however the HPA 
documents incorporate  these  items  and include a deposit  payment  for £548. Ms B says she 
did not agree to pay a deposit. I can understand why this was of concern to Ms B as this was 
not what she thought was agreed.
Having looked  through the HPA I can see that the cash  price for the goods is recorded  as 
£6,428. This is the total of the cost of the car and the dashboard camera.  A deposit  amount 
is then recorded  as £548 and this is deducted from the total amount of credit.  Separately  in 
the financial  information  insurances  box, GAP insurance is recorded at a cost of £319. 
The APR and the interest rate in regard to both the goods and the insurances are the same. 
Given the details  set out in the HPA I can see why Ms B was concerned she might be paying  
additional interest for the GAP insurance despite  paying for these upfront. However,  looking 
at the numbers, I do not find that she has incurred any additional costs from those she 
initially agreed to. I say this because the total amount of credit Ms B agreed  to was the cost 
of the car (with no deposit paid towards this). This amount was £6,199.  The HPA includes an 
amount of goods  of £6,428 plus GAP insurance of £319, which together equals  £6,747.  
However there is then a deposit recorded of £548. Deducting this from the total brings the 
total amount of credit back to £6,199.
So, while I can understand why Ms B is upset by this process  I do not find that she has 
suffered any financial  loss as a result of this. It appears that instead of Ms Bs acquisition  of 
the dash camera  and GAP insurance  being recorded as separate items they have been 
recorded as a deposit payment. I accept  that she did not want  this but I do not find that she 
has been adversely  affected by this. I also note that she has received a payment  form the 
finance provider  for the interest amount relating to the GAP insurance.
I note the comments about  misrepresentation. I understand the point about the approach not 
being clearly explained.  However I do not find that there is anything  to suggest that Ms B did 
not wish to acquire  the dashboard camera or the GAP insurance. Therefore I find it more 
than likely that she wanted these products and so would have acquired them  had she been 
provided with clear information about  how her HPA would  be set out.
I understand the comment about  there being  no advantage to acquiring  the times  upfront as 
the HPA records  an interest charges associated with this. However I also note that interest is 
chargeable on the amount  of credit provided. In this case this has been  reduced by the 
deposit which is the equivalent  amount to the payment Ms B made  for the dashboard 
camera and the GAP insurance  and so she has benefits from not being charged interest on 
this amount. 
Ref: DRN80217373So, while I understand why Ms B is upset, I do not find that the issues she has raised have 
had any adverse impact  on her and so I do not uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8021737