K821x#15complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain they were given unsuitable investment advice by St. Jamess  
Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) and were not provided with the service  they shouldve 
been provided with.
background
Mr R and Mrs R saw a Partner  - an Appointed Representative (AR)  of SJP in 2005. He 
recommended that Mr R invest £100,000 in an International  Investment  Bond (IIB)  an 
offshore bond.  Mr R then invested further amounts into the IIB over the next 12 months  
totalling a further £500,000.
Mr R and Mrs R saw a different Partner  in 2010  who recommended that Mrs R invest  
£48,000 in a second IIB. In 2014  Mr R assigned the first IIB to Mrs R.
Mr R and Mrs R complained to SJP in 2018 and it summarised their complaint as being;  that 
the status of the first Partner as an AR not an employee of SJP wasnt  made clear; the 
advice to invest in the first IIB was unsuitable and a Unit Trust wouldve been more suitable;  
the subsequent advice  for Mrs R to invest in the second IIB in 2010  was unsuitable; they 
were disappointed with the service  provided  by the Partner they had been using over the 
past year.
I have issued two provisional decisions in this complaint. Both are attached to this final 
decision. In the first I upheld the complaint on the basis I wasnt  satisfied that Mr R should 
have been advised to invest  £600,000 into the IIB although I thought  the later advice to Mrs 
R to invest £48,000  into a separate IIB was suitable.
I didnt think redress should be based on SJP paying the tax payable  on the IIB as I wasnt 
satisfied it was possible to know whether  Mr R and Mrs R would have been better off if some  
of the money  invested in the IIB had instead  been invested in a Unit Trust. In the 
circumstances I based the redress on the Capital Gains Tax (CGT)  Mr R and Mrs R would 
have avoided if they had been able to use their CGT  allowances.
In my second provisional decision  I changed  the redress so that it was based only on Mr Rs 
CGT allowance. This was because I was persuaded by SJPs argument,  in response to my 
first provisional decision, that it was unlikely that both Mr Rs and Mrs Rs CGT allowance  
would have been utilised.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further information they 
wanted me to consider before reaching my final decision. SJP said it agreed with the 
outcome in my second provisional decision but wanted clarification about redress.  In 
particular it wanted  confirmation that what I had set out regarding redress  was the extent of 
redress and that the £7,000 it had previously offered  in full and final settlement  wasnt also 
payable. 
Mr R and Mrs R didnt agree with my second  provisional decision. They have set out at 
length their views about my findings, which runs to over 40 pages. However, in large part 
what they have  said repeats  points already put to me and which  I took into account when 
making my previous findings. I summarise  what I think are the main  issues  they have raised  
as follows:
Ref: DRN83511252The £7,000  offered  in the letter of 30 May 2018 should  have  been  £15,048,  as it 
didnt calculate  this over the right period. It is beyond reasonable doubt  SJP agreed 
to repay  the fees and the ombudsman has unilaterally withdrawn that offer and 
substituted a figure of £400.
The ombudsman said he hadnt  made a finding  about a figure of £27,000 and that 
this was what was referred to in the FRL but hasnt said what  the FRL is. The figure 
of £27,000 is dubious but whatever  the real figure is it was for multiple  issues that 
SJP conceded  over several years and to retain them as clients. It is shocking he has 
overlooked the other five ex-gratia payments SJP made. 
They asked SJP for £10,000 as this has previously been the level of compensation it 
had paid them for errors  and bad service and the ombudsman was confused and 
misunderstood and misquoted the previous compensation payments.
The Ombudsman saying that SJPs previous payments for poor service dont amount 
to a policy that it needs to follow so he is saying that precedent,  agreement  and 
understanding can be ignored.
The Partner who was responsible for their investments  from March  2017 made many 
mistakes which  they ignored until he put them in the wrong ISAs and brought funds 
without approval. The ex-gratia payment agreed by the CEO to put the past year 
behind them had nothing to do with the Partners  failings.
The ombudsman has arbitrarily increased the £1,131  to £1,313  claim relating to 
SJPs internal transaction charges before rejecting this entirely  and SJP has never 
produced evidence this wasnt deducted  from their account.
The ombudsman accepted SJP mis-sold the investment in 2005  on the basis  they 
should have been  advised to invest in a Unit Trust and subsequent SJP partners 
have advised  they should have invested  in Unit Trust to feed their ISAs but the 
ombudsman, after accepting this later,  withdrew his decision  that Mrs R would have 
benefitted similarly from the shared advice.
The ombudsman recognised the coercion for them to remove their investments and 
leave SJP but considers they should pay all their own costs and a tax bill of 
£178,835.23.
They had success in court in showing SJP publish  erroneous data.
They confirmed the return  of 9.5%  to 11% for the IIB in a letter  to SJP dated 2 March 
2017 and it was never challenged and SJPs letter to our service of 28 August 2018 
confirms the conversation  took place. At a minimum this was misleading and why 
mention those figures if it wasnt  to suggest that the same  could  happen again.
The ombudsman said that the reference to a return of between 9.5% and 11% wasnt  
a guarantee and didnt  mean  there was a mis-sale  but he agrees that there was a 
mis-sale so he is saying he cares nothing  about  such mis-sales in the financial 
industry and that where firms have mis-sold they should be protected.
The 2017 Which? Money report addresses the endemic nature of SJP advisers 
dwelling on double digit gains to impress clients which  is what  the Partner  did with 
them.
The ombudsman didnt address all the issues raised by them.
It is obvious they would have been better off if they had invested in Unit Trusts as 
these would have  been onshore and more flexible and would have provided tax-free 
income to purchases ISAs. They now need to repatriate money  onshore  which  has 
caused a very large tax bill, even if spread over two years.
The ombudsman agrees that there has been  a loss of CGT allowance  but ignores 
they have always  invested jointly.
Mrs R has always invested the maximum in an ISA as from 2005.
Ref: DRN83511253The ombudsman has found  that the adviser didnt give clear  information about the 
tax position of the IIB, but he hasnt awarded  appropriate redress for this.
SJP should  pay the tax payable on the IIB because it wants them to leave as shown 
in the letter  of 30 May 2018.
The letters they received from the Partner  when investing  in the IIB wrongly indicated 
that the funds  recommended werent  restricted.  There was no explanation that if they 
wanted to repatriate  the funds tax would be payable.
Another ombudsman  in a different case asked the business to repay tax and referred 
to the client not being  made  aware of potential liabilities which  is similar to their 
situation.
The ombudsman hasnt considered all the evidence and information as stated and 
even admitted he hadnt considered parts of their submission.
The ombudsman has said that there  isnt evidence to show  they wouldnt at some  
point have chosen to surrender the IIB and incur  a tax liability.  But they were long-
term investors and they only wanted the investment to provide income and support 
as required  so there  is little likelihood of them killing the goose that lays the golden 
eggs. However, they are being blackmailed to leave  SJP and this means urgent 
surrender and tax implications. With another provider  they could change  adviser  
without incurring a large tax bill. The ombudsman has also ignored  the Partners tax 
free investment model.
If the ombudsman  considers  that the IIB was mis-sold in 2005 because of the IIB/Unit 
Trust mix it logically follows that Mrs R was mis-sold in 2005  based on the ISA/Unit 
Trust mix that she was recommended.
If they had been told at the outset of the implications of investing in SJP own-label 
investments, they wouldnt have  invested through SJP.
The ombudsman incorrectly stated that Mrs R was advised to invest  in a second IIB 
in 2010 by another Partner, but it was the same Partner as in 2005. This payment 
was meant to be a top-up to the existing IIB, there was no reason to have  a second 
small IIB.
They didnt specifically complain  about  the 2010  IIB, although  it should  have been a 
top-up, and the ombudsman hasnt read or understood the correspondence with the 
SJP CEO and the summit meeting notes from 19 April 2018.
They didnt see or sign the Client Review Forms (CFRs) as they should have done, 
and they asked for SJP to provide the metadata, but the ombudsman  hasnt  
investigated this and is another example of the ombudsman accepting  what SJP say.
They have subsequently  challenged all suitability letters  which are full of factual 
inaccuracies and have sent examples to us.
The ombudsman said that Mr R invested in the IIB, but the investment was on behalf 
of both of them.  Th ombudsman didnt check where the money  came  from. 
They didnt become aware that Partner  who recommended  the IIB was an AR for 
SJP until 2014 when they were  made  aware  of other  Partners  they could switch to. 
There was no mention that the SJP funds  could only be managed by SJP.
The ombudsman has stated that they said they should have £400,000 in a Unit Trust  
to make use of their CGT allowances,  but they havent said this.
The ombudsman refers to the benefit  of lower charges  and gross  roll-up  for the IIB 
The IIB may have  benefitted from gross roll-up but Unit Trusts have  their own 
advantages as they are tax free up to the CGT allowance  and dont have to be 
repatriated with the associated administrative burden.
The ombudsman hasnt identified what the proposed restitution would produce.
The ombudsman has assumed Mr and Mrs R would  need to construct tax returns 
without checking  with them.
Ref: DRN83511254The ombudsman referred  to what SJP said about higher costs of the Unit Trust but 
SJP has been  willing to offer nil charges  for Unit Trusts and in any event, it was for 
them to decide  if they wanted to pay higher charges because  there  are other  
considerations.
The ombudsman states  that Mr and Mrs R should have been advised to invest  in a 
Unit Trust but later chooses  to exclude  Mrs R from any CGT allowance.
The ombudsman has accepted SJPs argument that they would only have invested 
enough in the Unit Trust to make use of Mr R CGT allowance which  ignores what 
they were told subsequently by various SJP representatives.
They agree  with the ombudsman that they should have been advised to invest  some  
of the £600,000 money in Unit Trusts save that this could  have been split equally 
between the IIB and Unit Trusts or Mrs R could have been advised  to invest  in a 
standalone Unit Trust.
Both have invested in ISAs as from 2005 and the best financial advice was to have 
Unit Trusts in the mix, especially to feed annual ISA purchases.
They would logically have maximised the opportunity of investing  in Unit Trusts for 
both Mr and Mrs R to maximise their ISA allowances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted the various points that Mr R and Mrs R have raised and acknowledge their 
unhappiness with the outcome of the complaint, but I must  be impartial  and make what I 
think is a fair and reasonable decision based  on the information both parties  have provided.
Mr and Mrs R have provided  no new evidence  or information in response to my second 
provisional decision. In large  part they have simply  repeated arguments  that they have put 
previously and which I considered before making  my second  provisional decision. I have 
seen nothing that would lead me to change the findings I have made  in my provisional 
decisions or the redress I have awarded.
I note that some of the points made by Mr R and Mrs R relate to the background part of my 
provisional decisions and I think it is important to make clear  that that the background isnt 
part of my findings and in setting out in the background what a party  has said I am not 
saying I agree or dont agree with the point being  made.
I am also not required to comment  or make a finding  on every single point made by Mr R 
and Mrs R, or SJP. This doesnt mean I havent  considered what has been said by the 
parties. I have considered  all the information  provided by both parties. And if I havent 
commented on something it is because I dont think it is central  to the complaint.
Mr R and Mrs R have again  referred to not signing the CFRs and me not investigating  this. I 
dont think it is necessary for me to obtain  metadata relating to the CFRs to reach a fair and 
reasonable decision on the central issues in this complaint.
Mr R and Mrs R have also referred  again  to not being war that the Partner  was an AR of SJP 
and they werent  aware of this until 2014  and that they were also unaware of the advice 
being restricted advice  but this is something I have previously considered  and they havent 
provided any new persuasive evidence on that issue.
Ref: DRN83511255Mr R and Mrs R argue that I have unilaterally withdrawn the offer made by SJP of £7,000 
which they say should have been £15,048. They also say that I have misunderstood the 
offer as I incorrectly stated that it wasnt for service-related issues when it was.
Whether the figure  was meant to be £15,048 or not, it was a without  prejudice  ex-gratia offer 
in full and final settlement,  which  offer included  that Mr and Mrs R stop using SJP for advice. 
They didnt accept  the offer so SJP have  no obligation  to pay either £7,000 or £15,048. 
I have not withdrawn the offer as suggested, and it isnt within my power to do so as the offer 
was made  by SJP.  It wasnt  accepted by Mr R and Mrs R so wasnt  an agreed amount 
between the parties.  For me to make  an award for this I would need  to be satisfied it is 
reasonable for SJP to pay this amount to Mr R and Mrs R and I am not satisfied that it is.
Whilst SJP based  its offer £7,000  on the charges deducted since  October 2017, it didnt say 
that Mr R and Mrs R were  entitled  to this amount  because of service-related issues. In order  
to make an award I would  need to be satisfied it was reasonable for SJP to pay this amount 
to Mr R and Mrs R because of the service provided  and I am not satisfied that it is.
Mr R and Mrs R once again  suggest  that because  SJP had previously repaid fees for 
service-related issues there was an agreement for it to do so. I have previously addressed  
this, and they have provided no new evidence or argument that would lead me to change my 
finding on this. In short, I am not satisfied that just because SJP chose in the past to make 
such payments that this amounted to an agreement that it would do so every time Mr and 
Mrs R raised an issue  about the service.  
Mr R and Mrs R have referred  to the £1,131 internal transaction charges  I note they have 
pointed out I have referred  to £1,313 which is a typographical error on my part for which  I 
apologise. They have  not provided any further  evidence on this that would lead me to 
change my finding that nothing is payable by SJP in respect of this. 
Mr R and Mrs R have suggested that I recognised that SJP were  being coercive when  it 
offered them  £7,000  if it stopped providing an advisory service  to them. They  are referring to 
what I said about a comment they made about me endorsing coercion. I was making clear 
that wasnt what I was doing,  and I made no finding on whether the conditional offer of 
£7,000 amounted to coercion. So it is clear, I am not persuaded that making an offer that Mr 
and Mrs R were  free to accept or not amounts to coercion. 
Mr R and Mrs R have again  referred to the Partner referring to a return  of between  9.5%  and 
11% but have  not provided  any further  evidence that would make me change  my finding  on 
this. I am still not satisfied  that they realistically  thought they were guaranteed a return at this 
level.
Mr R and Mrs R have referred  to court proceedings they issued against  SJP which  were  
successful. I have not been provided with any evidence that shows  that the outcome of 
those court proceedings affects the specific issues in this complaint or the findings I have 
made.
Mr R and Mrs R have referenced the Which? Money  report  but this was part of the 
information they provided originally when they referred  their complaint to us, so isnt anything  
new. In any event it doesnt provide evidence of what happened in Mr Rs and Mrs Rs case.
Ref: DRN83511256Mr R and Mrs R have referred  to a figure of £27,000  that I said was in the FRL. They have 
said I havent said what the FRL is. This is a reference to the final response letter of 30 May 
2018 which they have referred to multiple times  in this complaint. I think it is unlikely they are 
unaware as to where I obtained that figure  - as shown by the fact they have suggested that 
in mentioning it I have  ignored the other payments SJP listed  in the letter.  In any event I 
dont think where the figure is mentioned really matters. 
I have not ignored  the other  payments listed by SJP as Mr R and Mrs R suggest. I listed the 
payments in the background to my first provisional  decision and referred to SJP paying over 
£60,000 for service-related issues. 
I am satisfied that a small amount is payable for distress and inconvenience over and above 
the amount already paid by SJP and I still think £400 is reasonable in addition to payments 
previously made.
Mr R and Mrs R argue that they would have invested enough in a Unit Trust to make use of 
their ISA allowances. They say that the investment into the IIB in 2005  and 2006  was on 
behalf of them both and that they have both always used  their ISA allowance each year.  
However, the investment was in Mr Rs name only with Mrs R only named as a beneficiary.  
She wasnt a joint owner of the IIB and could only have become the owner if Mr R died or the 
IIB was assigned to her. As I noted  in my first provisional decision, there  was nothing in the 
documents  by which I mean any document including the suitability  reports - I had seen to 
suggest there was any intention  for the IIB to be assigned  to Mrs R at some point in the 
future. I acknowledge  it was assigned to Mrs R in 2014 but Mr R and Mrs R have said this 
was only because of the dementia  tax not because this was the intention from the outset. 
The suitability letter dated August 2005  refers to the capital to be invested being held on 
deposit in Mr Rs name only and that Mr R wished to retain the money in his name. This is 
repeated in subsequent  suitability letters. In the circumstances,  based on the evidence I 
have seen, I am not persuaded  that if Mr R and Mrs R had been  advised to invest in a Unit 
Trust at the outset, that this would have been in joint names. I think it is more  likely than not 
that whatever  Mr R invested  into in 2005/2006 would have been in Mr Rs name only. 
In asking SJP to put things right based only on Mr Rs CGT allowance, I havent ignored  
what they have  been told by subsequent SJP partners about investing in Unit Trusts. I am 
just not satisfied they would have invested in Mrs Rs name in 2005/2006. The suitability 
letters indicate Mr R wanted  to keep any investment in his own name and whilst  I 
acknowledge that Mr R and Mrs R dont  agree  that the suitability letters are accurate, I think  
it is unlikely that the Partner stated Mr R wanted the investment in his name if this was never 
discussed.
My finding  on this is supported by what Mr R has said in this complaint in response  to the 
investigators opinion.  He said that he and Mrs R had been married  for only a year,  that there 
was a pre-nuptial  agreement in place at the time and that he deliberately had the investment  
in his name only as opposed to joint names.  
This supports what is set out in the suitability letter about Mr R wanting  to keep the 
investment in his name. In the circumstances I am satisfied  it is more likely than not any 
investment in 2005/2006 would always have in Mr Rs name only,  whether this was into a 
bond or Unit Trust.
Ref: DRN83511257In the circumstances I think calculating redress on the basis that Mr R would  have been  able 
to make use of his CGT allowance each year is a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
Mr R and Mrs R have referred  to a decision by another  ombudsman  in a different  case in 
support of what they have said. However, each  case needs to be looked  at on its own 
merits.
I am satisfied that the decision I have made and the redress  I have asked SJP to calculate is 
a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint  based on the information provided to me by 
the parties.
Mr R and Mrs R have said I havent provided a calculation showing what the redress  would 
amount to and I note their concern as to the SJP being responsible  for the calculation.  Whilst 
I acknowledge what they have said, it is normal for our service to set out the methodology for 
redress and leave the business  to carry out the actual calculation unless it is apparent what  
the actual amount payable is.
What SJP should do to put things right
I have upheld the complaint on the basis that investing part of the money  invested  in the IIB 
was suitable but that the advice  to invest the full £600,000 in the IIB was unsuitable  and that 
Mr R should have been advised  to invest some of this in a Unit Trust. 
I dont think it is possible to say exactly how much Mr R would have invested in the IIB and 
how much  in a Unit Trust. He may have invested  more than he needed to make use of his 
CGT allowance and ended up paying  some  tax on returns or he may have got lower returns  
and not been able to fully utilise his CGT  allowance.
However, I think it is fair and reasonable to base redress on Mr R fully utilising  his CGT 
allowance.
Im mindful that the rate of tax for CGT  differs  depending on the overall amount of gain in 
any one year and what  other taxable income has been received. But Mr R was a basic rate 
taxpayer and subject  to evidence to the contrary I think  redress should  be calculated on the 
basis that tax was payable at the lowest rate in any year. This was 18% up until 6 April 2016 
when a lower rate of 10% was introduced.
As set out above I also think SJP should pay £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by service issues.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  set out. St James Place Wealth  Management  
Plc must calculate  and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 August  2021.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83511258
Ref: DRN83511259COPY SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain they were given unsuitable investment advice  by St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP) and were not provided  with the service they shouldve been provided.
background
Mr and Mrs R saw a Partner - an Appointed Representative (AR)  of SJP in 2005. He 
recommended that Mr R invest £100,000 in an International Investment Bond (IIB)  an offshore 
bond. Mr R then invested  further  amounts  into the IIB over the next 12 months totalling a further 
£500,000.
Mr and Mrs R saw a different Partner in 2010 who recommended  that Mrs R invest  £48,000 in a 
second IIB. In 2014 Mr R assigned the first IIB to Mrs R.
Mr and Mrs R complained to SJP in 2018  and it summarised their complaint as being; that the status 
of the first Partner as an AR not an employee of SJP wasnt  made  clear; the advice to invest in the 
first IIB was unsuitable and a Unit Trust wouldve been more suitable;  the subsequent advice for Mrs 
R to invest  in the second  IIB in 2010 was unsuitable;  they were disappointed with the service provided  
by the Partner  they had been using over the past year.
I issued a provisional decision upholding  the complaint about Mr Rs investment into the IIB being 
unsuitable in part, in that I thought that some  investment into the IIB was suitable but not the full 
amount of £600,000 hed been  advised  to invest. I didnt  think  the advice  to Mrs R to invest  £48,000 in 
a separate IIB was unsuitable. 
In terms of redress I considered it wasnt possible to know whether Mr R and Mrs R wouldve been 
better off if some of the money  had been  invested in Unit Trusts instead.  In the circumstances I wasnt 
persuaded that it was reasonable to expect SJP to pay the tax payable on the IIB. I said redress 
should be based on SJP paying for them not utilising their CGT allowances  as they wouldve  done 
with gains  made  in a Unit Trust. I also thought SJP should pay a further £400 for distress and 
inconvenience caused  by the service issues.
I gave both parties  the opportunity of responding and providing further information. Mr R responded  
and in summary made the following points:
They  were never provided with terms of business in 2005 showing the Partner was a 
Appointed Representative AR for SJP.
They  have never seen the Confidential Financial Reviews (CFRs)  and the suitability letters 
are works of fiction.
The Partner claimed that funds were quoted investments available  on the major  stock 
markets of the world  but doesnt mention  that only SJP can manage these  funds.
The £27,000 I said was paid for poor service since 2014 was paid for service up to then.
The £10,000 payment  made by SJP was, in the words of the SJP chairman,  to put the past 
year behind  them and not for the actions  of their current Partner.
The tax implications of the IIB were never made clear, rather  they were told they would  never 
have to pay tax if they followed the Partners plan.
They  were not given an explanation  of restricted advice.
They  wouldnt have  invested if they had been aware that the Partner was a self- employed  
salesman.
The IIB that Mrs R was advised to invest  in will simply add to their overall capital and be taxed 
accordingly and shouldve been £50,000 added to the original  IIB.
The statement from the Partner they had in 2017 is untrue.
The shortfall based  on the return of between 9.5% and 11.5%  the Partner referred  to should 
be paid by SJP as it should abide by the guarantee of the suitability of Partner advice. At a 
Ref: DRN835112510minimum it was misleading  and example of mis-selling as otherwise they wouldve moved  
elsewhere.
It is beyond doubt that SJP agreed to refund the fees of £15,047 and didnt  end up doing so 
because it got the dates wrong and they question what that Partner achieved for them.
If I am saying that SJP offered £7,000 for them  to leave SJP this is contrary  to what I have 
said in my last bullet point on the second page in my provisional decision and isnt clear form 
the letter  of 30 May 2018 and we are then confirming a judgment that when SJP or its 
Partners make too many  mistakes  it is acceptable for it to blackmail or force  clients to leave  
which would be a landmark  judgment.
The transaction charges  of £1,313 were to correct the errors made  by the Partner at the time,  
and they shouldnt have  to pay for his mistakes.
SJP has never advised them of a change to its compensation policy and a public  company 
cannot keep changing its policies without  notifying  those it affects.  The Partners make  errors 
all the time and they stayed with SJP because we knew they would resolve errors and pay 
compensation.
I have  said £10,000 is a reasonable  amount  for non-financial loss but they did suffer financial 
loss. 
The 26 September  2017 vision of where  they should be included around  £400,000  in Unit 
Trusts to make use of their CGT allowances.  As of 18 April 2018, their IIBs totalled 
£1,235,305 so £400,000 would be £32.36% of the total. Their  total annual CGT allowances 
from 2005   doubling  in 2014 as per my finding  would  amount to £249,400  and SJP should 
pay 32.36% of this amounting to £80,705 as a minimum. But they think they should  pay their 
total tax bill because of all the other issues.
They  have never claimed  any CGT allowance.
Because they were  misled in that they werent  made aware the IIBs were SJP own-label 
products they were  unable to move to another investment manager without  facing a 
substantial tax bill. So, they believe that SJP owes them  the tax of £178,835 they need to pay 
to be free of the SJP IIBs.
Mr R also questioned  who would prepare the figures for the redress and construct  the tax returns and 
pay for the financial  advice for them to invest with another financial manager.  These are all costs that 
SJP should bear.
SJP also responded and made the following  points:
Unit Trusts  dont  only provide capital  gain as they also produce income  through dividends 
which are taxed with the tax being  irrecoverable. Any saving from the capital gains would be 
offset, at least  in part, by this tax.
The yield on the closest Unit Trust match it had was 1% - although in order to realise the gain 
he wanted and use his CGT  allowance  each year other funds, with higher yields, may well 
have been needed. The tax rate was 10% so Mr R would have had to pay 0.1% in tax on the 
dividends  assuming  he remained a basic rate taxpayer.
The charges are approximately 0.5% lower for the Offshore Bond as it is meant to be kept in 
the long term, also the initial charge on the Unit Trust of 5% means  it was unlikely to make a 
gain in the first year.
In order  to make full use of his CGT allowance Mr R would have had to invest around 
£250,000 based on a reasonable assumption he could make a 4% capital gain each year (7% 
total return allowing for 1% income and 2% charges) so producing  a gain of £10,000  
although a return of 7% every year is optimistic  and he would  probably have had to invest  
more to make full use of his CGT allowance.
Investing £250,000 in a unit charge would  give rise to additional charges of £1,250 each year 
and income  tax of approximately  £250 - assuming use of low yield funds  and Mr R remaining  
a basic rate taxpayer.  This would  have allowed him to save £1,650 in 2007, as the 
ombudsman stated.  It would  seem  poor advice to advise investing in a Unit Trust  when the 
CGT was uncertain to get at best a saving that was broadly equivalent to the additional  cost.
Additionally,  the tax payable on the offshore  Bond  is only payable on encashment and Mr R 
would benefit from the investment return on his money remaining invested until that point.
Ref: DRN835112511If enough had been invested in 2006 based on using  Mrs Rs annual CGT  allowance in 2014  
the extra  costs would have been substantially more, and it is unreasonable  to assume  her 
CGT allowance would have been available  at any time in the future based on the 2006 
decision to invest solely in Mr Rs name.
It is unlikely that Mr R would be pushed into the higher rate tax band as a result  of investing in 
the offshore bond  partly through top-slicing relief and partly  through the ability to assign to 
Mrs R.
There was plenty  of evidence  that Mrs R was likely  to be the ultimate  beneficiary  and to 
assume Mr R would assign the bond to her before encashment  as he did in 2014.
The effect of top-slicing  relief and assignment to Mrs R means  the bond can be surrendered  
over two years with no higher rate tax being payable. This eventuality  was entirely 
predictable, and it believes it was part of the rationale for the 2006 advice.
Mrs R could also encash the bond in segments  and make use of her personal  allowance and 
pay no tax on a significant proportion of the gain  not dissimilar  to the annual CGT 
allowance.
Given she could do this Mr R and Mrs R didnt need to intend to hold the bond for her lifetime 
or until she became  a non-UK taxpayer  for the bond to be very tax efficient.
Given the points it has made the recommendation to invest the entire amount in the offshore  
bond was suitable  at the time the advice  was given and was perhaps marginally better that 
investing in a Unit Trust - unless  Mrs R became a non-UK taxpayer in which case  it was much 
better.
If the ombudsman on considering the points it has made,  agrees the advice to invest  in the 
offshore bond was suitable  it would  keep to the original offer it made, of £7,000 rather than 
pay the £400 for distress  and inconvenience I have suggested.
  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Both parties have  made various points about the findings in my original provisional  decision which  I 
will address in turn, starting  with the points made by Mr R and Mrs R.
Mr R has repeated he was unaware of the status  of the Partner as an AR for SJP. I have already 
addressed this in my provisional decision, and he has provided no new evidence that would lead me 
to change what  I said.  Even  if I was satisfied that he wasnt made  aware  the Partner who advised him 
was an AR for SJP there isnt any persuasive evidence that would lead me to find it is more likely, 
than not, he and Mrs R wouldnt have gone ahead with the Partner if they had been made  aware  of 
this.
Mr R has also repeated that he and Mrs R didnt see the CFRs - but again  I have made findings on 
this in my original provisional decision  and have nothing further  to add. 
Mr R has said the figure of £27,000 I have referred to was for poor service up to 2014 not from that 
date as I have stated.  I havent referred to a figure of £27,000 in my findings, this was a figure  referred 
to in the FRL from SJP which I have set out in the background  of my provisional decision. It referred 
to this figure as reduced  charges  for Mr Rs experience, since he returned to it in 2014. Even if this is 
wrong, and it is for events before 2014 this doesnt affect  my findings.
Mr R has also said the figure of £10,000 was to put the events of the past year behind them  in SJPs  
words, and not for the actions of the current Partner. But even allowing  for this I am not persuaded  
SJP need to pay anything further for the service issues the subject of this complaint  save  I think  
SJP should pay £400 overall for distress  and inconvenience as I have already set out.
Mr R and Mrs R have  said the £50,000 Mrs R was later advised to invest  in should  have simply been 
added to the existing IIB and will simply add to their capital. This money could have  been added to the 
Ref: DRN835112512first IIB, but Im not satisfied  that SJP did anything wrong  because  Mrs R was advised  to put this in a 
separate IIB.
Mr R has referred  once more to SJP paying the shortfall on the return the Partner said they could 
expect of between 9.5% and 11.5%. Again, I have already referred  to this in my provisional decision 
and he has said nothing that would  lead me to change my finding. I dont accept the adviser stating 
what he anticipated they could expect by way of return is the same as him guaranteeing  such a return  
and means  there  was a mis-sale.
I have seen no persuasive  evidence that SJP agreed to refund the fees of £15,047  and that the only 
reason it didnt do so was because it got the dates wrong. I have made  findings that the Partner did 
provide a service and Im not persuaded a refund of the fees is reasonable.
In making reference to SJP offering £7,000 on the basis that Mr R and Mrs R no longer are entitled to 
advice I have  not in some  way confirmed  that when SJP make too many mistakes it is acceptable for 
it to blackmail or force  clients  to leave  it. I have not endorsed that figure or the offer that SJP has 
made. It is a matter for Mr R and Mrs R whether they accept that offer or not.
I note what Mr R and Mrs R have said about the transaction  charges of £1,313.  From  what  SJP has 
said these relate to their ISAs and are not charges. It says these only appeared  temporarily on their 
accounts when manually adjusting  switch  transactions that resulted  from a misunderstanding between  
them and the Partner at the time. I dont think anything  is payable by SJP as a result of this.
Mr R and Mrs R have  referred to SJP having a compensation policy and not being  informed of any 
change to this policy. However, Im not satisfied that the fact that SJP chose to repay fees at various 
times because of service  issues amounts to a policy  that it is bound to follow or needs to give notice 
of change about.  In short, I dont think  it has any obligation to repay fees when a complaint is raised 
about service  issues just because this is what it has done in the past.
Mr R and Mrs R have  said, that they should have £400,000 (32.36%) in a Unit Trust to make use of 
their CGT allowance based on the 2017 vision of SJP as to where they should  be with their 
investments. They argue that on that basis SJP should pay this percentage of their overall tax bill on 
surrender, although they argue it should be the whole amount. 
Dealing first with the suggestion SJP should pay the full amount  of tax I can see no basis for this. I 
acknowledge the argument  Mr R and Mrs R have made about this being payable because they 
werent made aware that the IIBs were own label products and they cant  move to another investment 
manager without paying the tax. But even  if I accepted that they werent aware the IIBs were own 
label products  there isnt any persuasive evidence they would not at some point have chosen to 
surrender their investment  - and been subject to tax on their gains - if they had invested with another 
product provider.
Turning to the suggestion  they have made about payment  of a proportion  of the tax based on the 
amount it has more recently been suggested they could invest in a Unit Trust  their complaint  was 
about the advice to invest in 2005 and 2010. The figure of £400,000  they say it was suggested should 
be placed in a Unit Trust is based on the value of their investments as at 2017. This includes the 
£480,000 that Mrs R was advised to invest in the IIB in 2014 which was not part of their complaint.
Their argument also ignores the lower charges and gross roll up they have benefitted from as a result 
of being invested in an offshore bond rather than a Unit Trust  which is why the potential tax payable is 
as much as it is. 
In the circumstances Im not persuaded  it is appropriate  to just deduct  a percentage of the tax that 
would be payable on the IIB if it is surrendered.  This would mean that Mr R and Mrs R will have 
benefitted from gains the IIB made  without paying anything in tax on those  gains and that isnt the 
position they would have been in if they had invested differently.
Ref: DRN835112513Mr R and Mrs R have  asked who would prepare  the figures for redress. The answer is that SJP will 
calculate the redress,  as is the usual position  where  redress is payable.  Mr R and Mrs R have also 
suggested SJP should pay the costs of constructing tax returns and of going  to anew financial 
adviser. Im not satisfied these are cost that SJP should pay. Mr R and Mrs R would  need to prepare  
tax returns  in any event and Im not persuade any significant additional  costs will be incurred in 
constructing these because of what  SJP got wrong. It is also a matter for them  whether  they want to 
use a different adviser and Im not satisfied that SJP should pay the cost of any subsequent advice 
they are given by someone else.  
Turning to the points made by SJP I acknowledge what it has said about  a Unit Trust  investment 
providing dividends that would have been taxable and there  being  higher charges. I also note what  it 
has said about the amount  that would need  to be invested in a Unit Trust  to make use of the CGT 
allowance - and its argument  that it wouldnt be good advice to invest  in a Unit Trust when the CGT 
was uncertain and any saving  would be broadly equivalent to the additional  cost of using a Unit Trust.
However, Im not persuaded  that Mr R wouldnt  have invested some of his money in a Unit Trust if he 
had been given clear  information about the IIB in relation  to tax. I think  it is of note that in his letter of 
21 September 2005 the Partner who advised Mr R at the time stated the reason Mr R didnt want  to 
invest in a Unit Trust to use his CGT allowance was because the tax benefits  of the IIB were  greater. 
But, Mr Rs view about  the tax benefits of the IIB were based on the information he was given  by the 
Partner. I set out in my provisional  decision  why I didnt think the Partner had provided  clear 
information about the tax position and had placed undue emphasis on the non-UK residence status  of 
Mrs Rs family. SJP has not sought to argue  that my findings on those  two points is wrong and 
nothing it has said leads me to think I need to change those findings.
In the circumstances I am still not satisfied  that Mr R was given  clear information about the IIB bond 
so that he could make an informed  decision about whether he wanted to invest  a total of £600,000 
into it in 2005 and 2006. I am not persuaded that the advice to invest  this amount  into the IIB was 
suitable in the circumstances.  I think it is more  likely than not that if Mr R had been given clear 
information and suitable advice, he would have invested some of his money  in a Unit Trust  so he 
could use his CGT allowance.
SJP has said there was plenty of evidence that Mrs R was likely  to be the ultimate  beneficiary. I 
accept that there  is evidence  to suggest  that Mrs R would  be the beneficiary of Mr Rs estate on his 
death. I dont think there is strong  evidence that he intended that she would benefit from the IIB whilst 
he lived. There  is nothing in the documents from 2005  and 2006 that refers to any intention on his part 
to assign  the IIB to Mrs R, so I dont agree that it could be reasonably assumed this was what Mr R 
intended at the time he invested. 
I can see no reasonable basis for finding that part of the Partners rationale for his advice in 
2005/2006 was that the IIB would be assigned  to Mrs R who could  then take advantage  of top-slicing 
relief and surrender  over two years to limit any tax payable.  And just because the IIB can be 
surrendered in segments,  to make use of the personal allowance, doesnt make the original advice 
suitable. 
SJP has questioned my finding that after the bond was assigned to Mrs R in early  2014 Mr R and Mrs 
R would have  made use of both of their CGT allowances if Mr R had originally  been advised  to invest 
some of his money in a Unit Trust. I think there is some merit  to this argument. SJP has pointed to the 
sort of capital return that would have been necessary for Mr R to take advantage of his CGT 
allowance, taking account  of the charges and the return that would have been by way of dividends. 
As the IIB was in his name only there would  have  been no basis for investing  more  in a Unit Trust 
than would have been necessary for Mr R to take advantage of his CGT allowance. Even if this was 
then put into their joint names the capital  returns are unlikely to have been enough for both CGT 
allowances to be used  up. So, I accept SJPs  argument  on this point and have changed my redress 
accordingly.
Ref: DRN835112514What SJP should do to put things  right
I have upheld  the complaint  on that basis that investing part of his money  in the IIB was suitable  but 
that the advice to invest  the full £600,000 in the IIB was unsuitable and Mr R should have been 
advised to invest some of this in a Unit Trust.  
SJP have suggested at least £250,000 needed to be invested  to make use of the CGT allowance 
based on various  assumptions about returns. I dont think it is possible to say exactly how much Mr R 
would have invested in the IIB and how much in a Unit Trust. He may have invested  more than 
£250,000 and ended up paying some tax on returns above the CGT allowance or he may have got 
lower returns  and not been  able to fully utilise his CGT allowance.
But I think it is fair and reasonable to base redress on Mr Rs fully utilising his CGT allowance.  
Contrary to what I said in my original provisional  decision  I am no longer of the view that the redress 
should also take account  of Mrs R using  her CGT allowance as from 2014 as it is unlikely Mr R would 
have invested enough in a Unit Trust as of 2005/2006 for her to make use of her allowance.
Im mindful that the rate of tax for CGT differs depending on the overall amount of gain in any one 
year and what other taxable income has been received. But Mr R was a basic rate taxpayer and 
subject to evidence to the contrary I think redress should be calculated  on the basis that tax was 
payable at the lowest rate in any year. This was 18% up until 6 April 2016 when a lower rate of 10% 
was introduced.
As set out above I also think SJP should pay £400 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by the 
service issues.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint to the extent set out above and in my original provisional decision. St James 
Place Wealth Management Plc must calculate and pay redress as I have explained above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN835112515COPY OF FIRST  PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain they were given unsuitable investment advice  by St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP) and were not provided  with the service they shouldve been provided.
background
Mr and Mrs R saw a Partner - an Appointed Representative (AR)  of SJP in 2005. He 
recommended that Mr R invest £100,000 in an International Investment Bond (IIB)  an offshore 
bond. Mr R then invested  further  amounts  into the IIB over the next 12 months totalling a further 
£500,000.
Mr and Mrs R saw a different Partner in 2010 who recommended  that Mrs R invest  £48,000 in a 
second IIB. In 2014 Mr R assigned the first IIB to Mrs R.
Mr and Mrs R complained to SJP in 2018  and it summarised their complaint as being; that the status 
of the first Partner as an AR not an employee of SJP wasnt  made  clear; the advice to invest in the 
first IIB was unsuitable and a Unit Trust wouldve been more suitable;  the subsequent advice for Mrs 
R to invest  in the second  IIB in 2010 was unsuitable;  they were disappointed with the service provided  
by the Partner  they had been using over the past year.
SJP provided a final response to the complaint in which, in summary, it made  the following points:
Mr and Mrs R were  given sufficient information to be reasonably  aware of the status of SJPs 
Partners who provided advice. This included  being provided  with a copy of the terms of 
business of the adviser in 2005 which confirmed he was an Appointed Representative  of SJP 
and that he offered restricted advice.
The adviser  took into account that the IIB might be encashed when Mrs R was a non-UK 
resident, but it would  still have been advised over a Unit Trust investment for a basic rate or 
non- taxpayer given the intention  was for it to be held over the long term.
Mr and Mrs Rs financial  circumstances  and needs were the same in 2010 when the second 
IIB was recommended in Mrs Rs name only. The fact the money wasnt used  to top up the 
first IIB makes  no difference to charges,  tax or performance.
The IIB was an appropriate solution for Mr and Mrs Rs needs if Mrs R was a non-UK 
taxpayer or basic rate taxpayer on encashment.  It would also have been appropriate if it was 
intended that Mrs Rs family would benefit from the funds in due course, although the 
suitability of the IIBs didnt  rest on that intention.
The position regarding the IIBs was further explained in 2014 by another Partner who 
referred to other  possible  alternatives such as a Unit Trust.
It has compared  the performance  of the IIBs with the benchmark  used by the Financial  
Ombudsman Service for someone willing to take a medium risk and the IIBs have 
outperformed the benchmark significantly.
Taking everything into consideration it had seen  no evidence to suggest  the IIB was an 
unsuitable recommendation.
The complaint about the service Mr and Mrs R had received over several  years had 
previously been  addressed and the payments made provide enough  recompense  for any 
instances of poor service before October 2017. The payments were as follows:
oIt enhanced the value of the first IIB by £10,000 in 2014 to take account of market 
movements in response to concerns about delay  caused by the wrong account  
information being  sent.
oIt made an ex-gratia payment of £4,500 in January 2016 over concerns over poor 
service.
oIn January 2016 it also reduced the charges  on the money  invested in the first IIB at a 
cost to it of £27,000  because of the service provided  since 2014.
Ref: DRN835112516oIn April 2017 it made an ex-gratia  payment of £3,322  in response to concern over 
delay in investing an ISA contribution.
oIt paid a further ex-gratia amount of £6,968 in April 2017 being the ongoing advice 
charges Mr R had paid.
oIn October  2017  it made another ex-gratia  payment of £10,000 which was to put the 
events of the past year behind.
It doesnt  believe  any financial detriment has arisen as a result  of any service issues that 
arose after October 2017 and it wouldnt be appropriate to make any further payments.
It isnt possible to guarantee that no mistakes will be made in future.
Given Mr and Mrs Rs level of dissatisfaction it suggests reducing the charges on the 
investments by 0.5% each year. This is the cost of ongoing advice and going  forward advice 
wont be given.
If Mr and Mrs R want  to move their investments from SJP tax will be payable on the 
encashment of the IIBs but if this is done over two years it should  be possible to limit this to 
basic rate tax.
It is willing to make  one final ex-gratia payment of £7,000 for the charges made for ongoing 
advice and service  since October  2017  subject  to Mr and Mrs R confirming  they will receive  
no further  advice from SJP.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with what SJP had set out in its final response and referred their complaint 
to us. They  set out 22 issues they had with the service they had received from the Partner they had 
used the previous year and a further 57 issues they had with the Partner they had originally used  from 
2005. It is not practical or desirable for me to list all the issues which range  from minor issues such as 
the misspelling of Mr R first name to what I consider the core issues of this complaint - which centres 
on the suitability of the advice to invest  in the IIBs. Mr and Mrs R wanted SJP to put things right in 
various ways including  an apology from the Chairman and a public announcement that nepotism took 
place.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and made  the following  points:
We would not ask a specific person to give an apology, such  as the Chairman, in 
circumstances where we think an apology is appropriate redress.
We would not ask a business to make a public statement about any issue.
We would not ask the complaint  reviewer  at SJP to make an apology.
Its unlikely SJP offered  a guaranteed return between 9.5% and 11%.
The amount SJP has paid in ex-gratia payments, including a payment of £10,000, is a fair 
amount for the non-financial loss suffered.
The documents show  that the investments were ultimately for the benefit  of people who 
wouldnt be UK taxpayers and CGT hadnt been a main objective  given the proceeds were to 
be left to Mrs Rs family.  
It seems circumstances have changed so that Mrs R will now be a UK taxpayer  and CGT  has 
become a concern,  but this couldnt have been foreseen at the time.
The tax implications of the IIB were made clear.
SJP requirement  that Mr Rs account be deleted, and a new account  set up with new 
password and security  questions when  he wanted to reset the security questions was a 
commercial decision.
SJPs decision not to offer partner services going forward is a commercial decision and it is 
entitled to decide who it wants to do business with.
There have been failings by SJP but the offer of compensation within its final response letter 
is reasonable.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. They provided  an initial response totalling  44 pages 
and subsequent communications  adding further points they wanted to make.  I have summarised  what 
I think  are the main points made by them as follows:
The key part of their compliant is that they were mis-sold the IIBs.
Ref: DRN835112517The IIBs didnt allow them access to their funds without incurring a significant tax penalty.
It tied them to SJP as it could not be operated by other advisers.
The advice failed to consider Unit Trusts which wouldve benefitted from their annual  CGT 
allowance and been more suitable.
The Confidential Financial Review (CFR) documents that SJP relies upon were  supposed  to 
be countersigned by them  but werent  and they didnt see these until we provided  them in 
June 2019.
If they had seen  them,  they wouldve disputed  the contents and SJP should be asked to 
produce the metadata in relation to them.
The documents create a false picture because it was the adviser  who recommended making  
use of offshore  status not Mr R and the adviser made unwarranted  assumptions about Mrs 
Rs family from whom she is estranged, and she doesnt intend  them to benefit  from her Will.
There is no legal or reliable mechanism by which a member  of Mrs Rs family might receive  
money from the IIB and then send it to them as the adviser suggested could happen.
The advisers  extreme  tax-efficiency of his IIB only recommendation  has led to a potential  tax 
bill of around £179,000 currently plus the loss of CGT tax allowances since 2005.
There are also issues around  SJPs unannounced  change of established policy  to refund  fees 
and compensation; the responsibility of SJP for failing to meet  the 10.5% average return on 
investment they were  told they would get; the fees charged  by SJP for putting right the 
problems created  by the adviser in 2017/2018; the loss of the assistance programme  agreed 
with SJP to re-balance the original IIB mis-selling.
The vision of the partner they saw in 2017 is reflected in the strategy created by another  
Partner - his Financial Plan Strategy 16 April 2018  which they have now obtained a copy 
of.
The strategy states If I was presented with a client with your long-term objectives, I would be 
recommending ISA investments, some Unit Trust elements to feed into ISAs in the long term 
and an offshore  bond wrapper.
Even if it was true that Mrs Rs family were to be the ultimate beneficiaries  and it isnt true  
there is no reason  that Unit Trusts shouldnt have  been used to make use of CGT allowances.
The Partner they saw in 2005 admitted in his letter of 21 September  2005 that he had 
overlooked Unit Trusts.
They  were told that the bonds would  only attract  tax if cashed  in the UK and that money could 
be wired to them abroad  or paid into the UK bank account of someone who was a non-UK  
resident. This advice was reckless as to the risks of tax evasion.
Even if an own label offshore bond was suitable Unit Trusts were legitimate tax-free 
investments and should have at least been included  in the portfolio.
Even if Mrs Rs family were going to be beneficiaries  that was no reason not to use Unit 
Trusts.
The fact the Partner recorded Mr R wanted the investment denominated in sterling  shows that 
it wasnt intended  the money would  go abroad.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main issues  in this complaint.  The first is about the advice to invest  in the two IIBs. The 
second is about the service  provided by the Partner who acted for Mr and Mrs R from March 2017.  Mr 
and Mrs R provided a detailed list of points  in respect of both these issues,  but I dont consider it is 
necessary to address  each  point, as my findings on such things as the misspelling of Mr Rs first 
name are not going to change my overall decision.
Mr and Mrs R have also referred to other ombudsman decisions which they suggest are relevant to 
their complaint. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits and what  another  ombudsman  has 
found in a different complaint based on the circumstances  in that complaint isnt automatically 
relevant to this complaint.
Ref: DRN835112518Mr and Mrs R have also referred to adverse press reports about  SJPs business  practices  and the 
attempts by it to improve its image, for example  by the appointment  of a respected non-executive 
board director.  They suggest  that this is an admission by SJP of its defective  business  practices  and 
that this vindicates all they have been saying and shows its practices  need  radical reform.
But my role isnt to consider  SJPs overall  business practices  and make comment on that. My role is 
limited to considering whether SJP has done anything wrong in relation to what  Mr and Mrs R have  
complained about. Wider issues  about  its business practices provide no direct evidence  in relation to 
what I am considering.
 
As a preliminary point I note that Mr and Mrs R say they were never made  aware that the Partner they 
saw in 2005 when they first started using  SJP wasnt employed by SJP and was instead an AR.
SJP has referred to the documentation  Mr and Mrs R shouldve received at the time they saw the 
Partner which provided information about the relationship  between the Partner and SJP. Mr and Mrs 
R say they were never informed  of the relationship or that the Partner was limited  to recommending  
SJP products and couldnt recommend products from the whole  market. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs R have raised  an issue about this. But I think  it is more likely than not 
that the documents they wouldve received  would have indicated that the Partner was an AR who only 
provided restricted advice.
And even  if I accept Mr and Mrs R werent  informed  of this I would still have to consider  if this 
wouldve led to them refusing to use the Partner and going  elsewhere. And there isnt enough  
evidence available for me to find that this is more likely than not. So even if they werent aware  that 
the Partner couldnt advise on the whole market, Im not satisfied that it is more  likely, than not, they 
wouldnt still have gone ahead with the investment  through SJP if this had been made clear.
One final point preliminary I think it is important to make is that where there is a dispute about what 
happened my findings  are made on a balance of probabilities  - what  is more likely than not  based 
on the evidence that has been provided by the parties. So, I am not saying what  definitely  did, or 
didnt, happen.
The advice to invest in the first IIB in Mr Rs name
I have considered what Mr and Mrs R objective was for the investment that was made  into the IIB in 
2005. This was identified as being capital growth with a tax-free  income over the medium  to long term 
in the first suitability letter  and this was repeated  in further  suitability letters when Mr R invested  
more money into the IIB. An offshore bond is not necessarily an unsuitable recommendation  to meet 
that objective depending on the circumstances.
An offshore bond is not subject to personal  tax on gains  although may be subject to some  
withholding tax on dividends and interest. So, an offshore  bond can benefit  from what is called gross  
roll-up compared to say an onshore  bond  where  in effect  a tax charge of 20% is deducted on gains. 
Income of up to 5% can also be taken from the offshore  bond without tax being payable on that 
income at the time of payment.
But this doesnt  mean tax is never payable  on an offshore  bond. If it is surrendered  tax will then be 
payable based on the bondholders marginal rate of tax. Even if someone is a basic rate taxpayer it is 
possible that the gains  on an offshore  bond  could push them  into the higher rate tax threshold.
In this case the IIB was taken out in the sole name of Mr R. The effect  of this is that if the bond was 
surrendered during Mr Rs lifetime, he would pay at least basic rate tax on any gains. But given the 
total amount he was advised to invest in the bond as of 2006  (£600,000)  I think there was a real 
possibility that he could be subject to some higher rate tax as well if he surrendered  the bond.
Ref: DRN835112519Although the bond was in Mr Rs sole name it was on a joint life basis. This means  it does not 
automatically come to an end on his death  assuming it isnt surrendered  beforehand. His personal  
representative (PR) can encash it after his death. This would amount to a chargeable event  with basic 
rate tax of 20% payable by the PR on any gains. 
But the PR doesnt  have to encash  it as they could  assign it to Mrs R instead, assuming she was Mr 
Rs beneficiary - which  the information in the CFRs  suggests  she was. In that case no tax would be 
payable immediately and whether any UK tax is ultimately payable  would  depend on Mrs Rs tax 
status and what she then did with the bond.
The first CFR completed in July 2005 refers to the ultimate beneficiaries  of Mr and Mrs Rs estates 
being Mrs Rs family who are non-UK resident and that the clients wish to take advantage of that 
status by investing offshore for tax benefits. This appears to be one of the main reasons the Partner 
recommended an offshore bond.
This is repeated in subsequent CFRs later in 2005 and in 2006. Mr and Mrs R have pointed  out that 
the CFRs  should be signed and arent. They dispute  that they have seen any of the CFRs and have 
said if they had done so they would have disputed what was said about Mrs Rs family being  the 
ultimate beneficiaries,  as they say they are not and that they have left their estates to a charity.
But I think there  was some discussion about Mrs Rs family being beneficiaries because  the CFRs  
are not the only documents that were created at the time of the various advices to invest  in the IIBs. 
SJP also set out the advice that was given in the various  suitability letters sent to Mr and Mrs R, and 
these referred  to Mrs Rs family being ultimate beneficiaries of their estates.
As an example, the August 2005 suitability letter  states, under the heading Inheritance Tax and 
Estate Planning that:
Mr R plans to leave everything to his wife 28 years his junior. No IHT due. She will then leave  assets 
to her family in xxxxxxxx. She is UK res & dom but may not be in future  checking with IR
There is also a note regarding the tax status of Mrs R which  refers to her having  come to the UK 
earlier that year and that she is resident and domiciled in the UK but that she may return to her 
country of origin in the future.
Another part of the report states:
(Mr Rs) strategy is to leave  entire estate to (Mrs R) 28 years his junior. They consider she is too 
young to consider IHT planning.  Her res/dom after his death are an unknown factor.
I note there was further reference to Mrs Rs family being beneficiaries of the estates in the suitability 
letter of November 2010 when Mrs R was advised  to invest £48,000 in the second  IIB. 
I also note what Mr R has said about the Partner saying  that the suitability letters were something he 
had to send. I take Mr R to mean  that he played down the significance of the letters.  But even if he 
did, I think it is unlikely he wouldve put something in the letters  he knew had never been said.
But although  I think there was some discussion about the family as beneficiaries of the estate, I can 
see no reason for this being a reason to recommend the IIB.  I  think it is important  to repeat that the 
IIB was in Mr Rs name only. He was only 59 in July 2006 by which time he had been advised to 
invest £600,000 in the IIB. 
I think  it is unlikely that he had decided  in 2006 that he would never want to remove his money  from 
the IIB throughout his lifetime. And I think it is of note that only the first suitability  letter  recorded  that 
Mr R didnt intend  to encash  the bond. This contrasts with subsequent  suitability letters for the further 
£500,000 that was invested which stated  that he didnt intend to encash in the immediate  future.  I 
Ref: DRN835112520think this is quite different  and indicates that Mr R didnt necessarily intend to keep his money within  
the IIB throughout his lifetime. 
Even if he had decided that he was willing to leave £600,000  invested until his death and it was then 
assigned to Mrs R, she was only 32 in 2006. I think it is very unlikely that she would  have wanted to 
have either  left the bond invested during her lifetime  or wouldve  chosen to assign it to someone in 
her family before her death. In short, I dont think the fact that Mrs Rs family  might be beneficiaries of 
her estate was a basis for recommending  the IIB. 
I have considered whether  the advice  to invest in the IIB was suitable in any event despite  the Partner 
wrongly basing his advice on Mrs Rs family  being beneficiaries of her estate. I think this must be 
considered by reference to Mr Rs circumstances and not Mrs Rs. The bond was taken out in his 
name only and, save for the first suitability letter, there is no persuasive evidence  that he intended to 
leave all the money  he had invested within  the bond  throughout  his lifetime. 
Nor is there any evidence that he intended  to assign  the bond  to Mrs R in 2005 or 2006  the 
suitability reports make  no mention of any such intention. I acknowledge that it was assigned to Mrs R 
in 2014 but there is nothing to show that this is what  was intended at the time of investment.
I have already said that there was a real possibility  that Mr R would have to pay higher rate tax on 
gains given the amount invested. And I am not satisfied that the Partner provided clear information  
about the tax consequences  of the IIB. 
As an example, the December  2005 suitability letter states, under the heading Reasons for 
Recommendation that:
As you are already aware, as the bond is held offshore,  there is no liability to UK income tax (my 
emphasis) on any growth in the fund (known  as gross roll-up) and therefore  your investment  may 
grow more quickly than a comparable onshore bond. 
I think  this is misleading  as it suggests tax isnt payable  rather  than tax is deferred to when the bond is 
surrendered. 
There is later reference to tax being payable  on encashment but even this refers  to only being on full 
encashment when living  in the UK. I also dont think this is accurate for a couple of reasons. Firstly, 
partial surrender of the bond would potentially  incur a tax liability. Secondly,  if Mr R encashed  the 
bond after he became non-UK  resident  this would  not necessarily mean  no tax was payable  as tax 
would be apportioned according  to the period of time, he was a resident, as compared  to the period of 
time he was non-resident.
In the circumstances Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs R were given clear information about the tax 
consequences of the bond or fully understood  the tax implications.
As I have already said, an offshore bond wasnt necessarily unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Rs objective 
and I think the initial amount the adviser recommended  be invested was more  likely  than not a 
suitable recommendation. But I dont think that Mr R shouldve been advised  to keep adding more  and 
more into the IIB so that by July 2006 he had invested a total of £600,000  into the bond. I think this 
made it far more likely he would end up having to pay higher rate tax if he chose to surrender the 
bond at some  point.
I think  the Partner shouldve recommended alternative investments for some of the money invested. 
Although he did refer to alternatives what  he said was again influenced by the mistaken emphasis he 
put on Mrs Rs family being beneficiaries of her estate. So, the Partner stated that onshore  bonds 
were not being considered  because  Mr and Mrs R wanted to take full advantage  of Mrs Rs familys 
non-UK residence status.
Ref: DRN835112521Unit Trusts were referred to in a letter from the Partner dated 21 September  2005 which followed the 
initial suitability letter which  states:
When we met you advised  me that you specifically  wished to invest  offshore to take advantage of 
Mrs Rs familys non-UK resident status  and this is achieved through the International Investment 
Bond. I note that in my previous letter I pointed out that there are a number of tax advantages  that 
would be forsaken  through not investing in Unit Trusts outside the PEP and ISA.
I should  have gone on to mention here that Unit Trusts would allow you to make use of your annual 
Capital Gains Tax (CGT)  allowances but you advised me that this was not a priority for you and the 
tax benefits of the offshore  plan outweighed  those afforded by UK-based Unit Trusts.
Given my findings about Mrs Rs family  and the Partners  unclear information about the tax 
consequences of the IIB it follows that I think Mr R may well have  made a different decision about 
investing in Unit Trusts  if he had been given suitable advice and clear  information  about  the tax 
position. I think it is more  likely than not Mr R wouldve invested  some of his money  in Unit Trusts  - as 
he has said he wouldve done.
The second  IIB in Mrs Rs name
Mrs R was a non-taxpayer as of 2010 when  she was advised to invest  £48,000 in the second IIB.  I  
dont think investing this relatively  small amount was unsuitable. I think it is unlikely the returns on this 
wouldve pushed  her into the basic rate tax rate - so potentially she couldve decided  to encash that 
bond at some  point in the future without incurring any tax. At worst she mightve  had to pay some 
basic rate tax on some  of the gains. I dont think the advice given to Mrs R was unsuitable  in the 
circumstances. 
The service issues
I dont intend to go through all the issues raised by Mr and Mrs R which include what I consider very 
minor issues such as misspelling of names. I will comment  briefly on two particular points raised by Mr 
and Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R have referred to the new SJP partner they had from around March 2017saying  he could 
achieve a return of 9.5% to 11.5% net of fees.  I note this was referred  to in their email to the partner 
of 2 March 2017 when they referred  to the Partners 9.5% to 11.5% target  annual net return. 
But I think it is unlikely the partner guaranteed a return at any particular level, and I think the use of 
the word target in Mr and Mrs Rs email makes it clear this was what the Partner was hoping to 
achieve not what he said would definitely be achieved.  Im not persuaded  that expectations were  
raised by what the adviser said, and I dont think they realistically thought  they were guaranteed  a 
return at that sort of level.
Mr and Mrs R have referred to the Partner making an error in inputting fund switches using 
accumulation units. The Partner said he realised the mistake and rectified  this straightaway,  although 
it did lead to an entry on the account indicating charges had been deducted which  was then put right.
I note the various  amounts  paid by SJP for various historic service  issues - by way of investment 
enhancement, ex-gratia  payments or otherwise.  Its figurers show the amount paid has been over 
£60,000. It has said this was for service issues to October 2017.  Mr and Mrs R say that the final 
payment of £10,000 was for service issues before March 2017 and want the fees paid from then  
which they calculate as £15,048  to be repaid.
I can see no basis for Mr and Mrs R getting  back all the fees they paid.  Im not satisfied  that the 
Partner didnt  provide a service to them. I think there were some service issues that were not dealt 
with by previous  payments  made by SJP. I note that SJP has said no financial loss was caused as a 
Ref: DRN835112522result of these  service issues. But I think some award should be made for distress and inconvenience 
caused.  I think an award of £400 is reasonable in the circumstances.
I note SJP offered  to refund  the fees incurred  as from October 2017 at £7,000 but this was conditional  
on Mr and Mrs R accepting that they would no longer  be entitled  to advice from SJP.  In the 
circumstances I dont  think  this offer indicates that SJP thinks the service was such that Mr and Mrs R 
were entitled  to a refund of fees.
What SJP should do to put things  right
I have upheld  the complaint  insofar  as I dont think the Partner  should have advised  Mr R to invest  
£600,000 in the first IIB, although I think investing a smaller amount in the IIB was suitable. Putting Mr 
and Mrs R back in the position they wouldve  been  in if suitable advice  had been given I think  is 
difficult, as there are too many unknowns.
If they had invested only part of the £600,000  in the IIB then the amount of tax currently payable on 
the IIB wouldve been less. But the level of tax is because of the gains made  by the IIB. If they had 
instead invested part of their money in Unit Trusts,  there is no certainty how this investment wouldve  
performed. And they may well have had lower gains than the IIB.
Im not persuaded  that it is appropriate to require SJP to pay the tax payable on the IIB in the 
circumstances. I also dont  think SJP should have to pay the costs of accountants and IFAs  as Im 
not satisfied  theses  costs  wouldnt have been incurred  in any event regardless of what  Mr and Mrs R 
were invested  in.
I do think Mr and Mrs R wouldve been able to make  use of their CGT allowances if they had invested 
in Unit Trusts instead.  What  tax they have ended up paying that would not otherwise have been paid 
is not necessarily  straightforward.
I think  it is reasonable  to base any redress on only Mr Rs CGT allowance being utilised  up to 2014, 
given the original  investment  was only in his name and there  is no reason to think  he wouldnt also 
have wanted any investment  in Unit Trusts to be in his name initially.
As the IIB was assigned to Mrs R in 2014 I think it is reasonable to find that any Unit Trusts  wouldve  
been in joint names from then. They could  then have  made  use of their joint CGT allowance.  I 
acknowledge that its possible they wouldnt  have made sufficient gains to fully utilise both allowances.  
But I dont think it is unreasonable to calculate redress on the basis they wouldve  done so.
So, subject to Mr and Mrs R providing evidence  that they didnt otherwise utilise their CGT 
allowances, I think SJP should  repay tax Mr and Mrs R have paid that they would not have been paid 
if the CGT  allowances  had been utilised as set out above. 
Im mindful that the rate of tax for CGT differs depending on the overall amount of gain in any one 
year and what other taxable income has been received. But Mr R was a basic rate taxpayer and 
subject to evidence to the contrary I think redress should be calculated  on the basis that tax was 
payable at the lowest rate in any year. This was 18% (and the same for Mrs R) up until 6 April 2016 
when a lower rate of 10% was introduced.
As an example of how I think redress should be calculated the CGT allowance for the tax year starting 
April 2007 was £9,200  and tax rate was 18%. So, the tax paid that would not otherwise have been 
paid if Mr R had used his CGT allowance is £1,656.
As another example the allowance for the tax year starting 2016 was £11,000 so the joint allowance  
was £22,000. The tax rate for a basic rate taxpayer was 10%. So, the tax paid that would not 
otherwise have been paid amounts to £2,200.
Ref: DRN835112523As set out above I also think SJP should pay £400 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by the 
service issues.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint to the extent I have set out and for the reasons I have explained. St James 
Place Wealth Management Plc must calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8351125