K820x#14Complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the valuation Advantage Insurance Company Limited has placed on 
his car when  it was written off. 
background
Mr Cs car was damaged  as a result of an accident. He made a claim on his motor  insurance 
policy with Advantage  and the insurer decided the car was a total loss. Advantage offered 
him £5,030  to settle his claim, but Mr C doesnt believe this is enough  as similar  cars are 
advertised for sale at nearer to £6,000. He complained to Advantage  and said hed accept 
£5,400 to settle his claim.  
Advantage looked into his complaint and issued its final response on 12 December 2018. It 
said it obtained valuations  from three  motor guides  Glasses, CAPS and Parkers - and had 
made an offer in excess of the average of those  guides. Advantage said the use of the 
guides was in line with the approach  of our service. 
Mr C didnt agree and referred his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked  into it. 
She found that Glasss gave a valuation  of £5,030, CAPS £4,924 and Parkers £4,515. She 
explained that we dont  place as much weight on advertisements for cars as theyre based 
on asking prices rather than selling prices. She explained that our approach is to use the 
retail transacted prices shown in the guides  and we ensure offers  made by insurers are in 
line with those. 
As Advantage had offered Mr C £5,030  which is in line with the highest of the guides,  our 
adjudicator felt the offer was reasonable. Mr C didnt agree and as there was no agreement, 
his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr C, but Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator and for broadly the same 
reasons.
Mr Cs policy  says that for the loss or damage to your car your insurer will...pay  the market 
value of your car immediately before  the loss.... It defines market value as the cost of 
replacing your car in the United  Kingdom at the time the loss or damage occurred with one 
of a similar, make, model, age, and condition.  Publications may be used which refer to 
vehicle values such as Glasss Guide to assess the market value...
In this case, Advantage has offered Mr C £5,030  which is in line with Glasss Guide (and 
slightly higher than other guides it checked). So it has offered Mr C what the policy  terms say 
it will. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C has given a quote of our approach to motor  valuation complaints that matches an 
Ombudsman News article  from November 2002 to support  his view that the valuation  is too 
low. Our current approach  is set out on our website and Ive seen nothing which suggests 
we should depart from that approach in this case.  
Ref: DRN89088912Its not for us to decide  what the market value of a vehicle is. Instead we consider whether or 
not the insurer has reached  a fair and reasonable amount having  regard  to the valuations  in 
the motor trade guides. As Ive already said, Advantage has offered a settlement in line with 
the highest value returned by the trade guides  so I think  thats fair and reasonable.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8908891