K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about the information recorded on his credit  file by Telefonica  UK 
Limited, trading  as O2, after he cancelled his credit  agreement with them.
background 
Mr B provided O2 with 30 days notice  to cancel his agreement with them in February 2018, 
as per the terms and conditions. Mr B was made aware of how much  he needed to pay to 
settle the agreement.
O2 have said that they sent Mr B at least two reminders in March 2018  of the amount owing.
They then attempted  to take the payment  in April 2018 by direct debit. However, this didnt 
go through. Despite  this, on the same day, O2 generated statements showing that there  
wasnt any further amount  owing on the agreement.
O2 have also said that they sent further letters  to Mr B in April 2018,  advising him of the 
amount that was still owing and that there  could be an impact  on his credit file. No amount 
was paid and a default marker was applied to Mr Bs credit file in August 2018.
Mr B has said that he was made aware of the default during a meeting with a mortgage  
advisor and made several attempts to query this with O2 in November and December 2018.
Mr B then made  a payment for the full amount owing and was told on more  than one 
occasion that any default markers would be removed from his credit file within 30 to 60 days 
of the payment.
Mr B remained unhappy  in January 2019  that his credit file had not been amended and 
continued to chase this with O2. He was eventually told that the debt will be recorded  as 
satisfied but that any late payment or default markers would not be removed, as they were  
an accurate reflection of Mr Bs payment history.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought the offer made  by O2 was fair. The 
relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below.
The terms and conditions of the agreement state that if early notice is given to 
terminate the agreement, the balance under the contract is payable. Mr B was written  
to on at least one occasion with what the outstanding balance was. 
O2 did provide an account  statement  for Mr B that showed  no outstanding balance.  
However, they have  explained that this was due to a payment attempt that failed after 
the statement  was generated. 
O2 registered  a default  on Mr Bs credit file in August 2018, when the outstanding 
balance had not been paid but they havent been able to show that they issued a 
necessary default notice. 
However, I think Mr B knew how much he owed and that failure to pay could impact 
on his credit file. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable  to require O2 to remove 
the default marker. 
Ref: DRN85156782O2 have offered  Mr B £50 and a letter of apology  for telling him that the default  
marker would  be removed if he paid the outstanding balance, which he later did. I 
think this is reasonable considering the impact this incorrect  information  had. 
responses to my provisional  decision
O2 confirmed that it had nothing  further to add. I didnt hear further from Mr B.
my findings 
As there is nothing further for me to consider,  my decision remains as outlined in my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons.
my final decision
Telefonica UK Limited,  trading as O2 have made an offer to pay Mr B £50 and provide him 
with a letter of apology. I conclude thats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.  So my 
final decision  is that Telefonica UK Limited  should  pay Mr B £50 and provide him with a letter  
of apology, if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8515678