K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim under his commercial motor  
insurance policy and retained a refund  of premium due to him.
background
Mr D owned his own coach business. In 2018,  one of the drivers he employed was involved 
in an accident.  Great Lakes said it wouldnt cover the claim as there  was an endorsement on 
the policy which meant no driver over the age of 65 would be insured under  the policy. While 
the claim was ongoing, Mr D retired and closed the business. He asked for the policy to be 
cancelled. Great Lakes  cancelled  the policy but kept the refund of premium  to offset against 
the cost of the claim.
Mr D was unhappy Great Lakes wouldnt  refund the premium and he didnt think  it was fair it 
wasnt providing cover for the claim made against his driver.  Mr D complained but Great  
Lakes didnt change  its position, so Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said Great Lakes 
hadnt provided any information  about  the claim  against  Mr Ds driver.  He also said he didnt 
think the endorsement relating to the age of the driver was clear on the policy or that it was 
sufficiently brought  to Mr Ds attention. The investigator recommended the refund of 
premium be paid to Mr D with interest.
Great Lakes didnt accept  the investigators opinion and provided  further  information  about 
the claim.  When doing so, it also asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 4 December 2020. I said I did not intend 
to uphold the complaint. In summary, I gave the following reasons:
Great Lakes has explained,  it was only provided with limited  information about the 
policyholders and respective brokers that held policies  with the previous insurer.  It was 
unaware of the age of the drivers Mr D employed  as this wasnt information that was passed 
to it.
Great Lakes has provided this service with evidence  that shows  it made the terms on which  
the insurance was being offered clear to Mr D, via his broker,  before the policy started. Ive 
reviewed this document and I do agree it is clear drivers over the age of 65 would not be 
covered. It further says should cover be wanted  for drivers that are excluded, contact should 
be made with Great  Lakes. Great Lakes has confirmed it didnt receive  any notification about  
Mr D employing  drivers who would otherwise be excluded under  the policy.
Even if Great Lakes  had been  made aware  of the age of Mr Ds driver, Great Lakes  has 
provided evidence  from its underwriter which says it would not have insured him, as the risk 
would have been unacceptable  to it.
Based on this, I dont  think  Great Lakes has acted  incorrectly  by refusing to provide  cover 
under the policy  for the accident that happened.  It made  Mr D aware of the terms of the 
policy and it wasnt asked  to provide  cover  for the driver. If this had of happened,  Great 
Lakes would have  been able to explain  the driver wouldnt be insured under the policy.
Ref: DRN87508942While I dont think the wording of the endorsement on the schedule  is particularly clear. 
Based on what Ive explained  above,  I dont think this makes  a significant difference now, as 
Great Lakes would not have provided insurance  cover in any event.
I accept theres a possibility Mr D wasnt aware  of this restriction  on cover, as he has said he 
wouldnt have allowed the driver  to drive uninsured. However, I cant  hold Great Lakes 
responsible for any failure in communication between Mr D and his broker. My decision 
focusses on the actions of Great Lakes and I dont think it has made  a mistake here.
As the insurer of Mr Ds business,  Great Lakes was obliged under the Road Traffic Act to 
meet the third parties costs relating  to the accident. And, usually in situations such  as this, it 
would look to reclaim these from the policyholder. 
Great Lakes has used  the refund of premium that would have been due to Mr D to offset 
some of the claim costs.  Overall, having  reviewed  all of the evidence  now provided  to me, 
and being mindful of the fact Great Lakes isnt pursuing Mr D for the remaining claim costs at 
this time, I dont think this is an unreasonable thing  to do in the circumstances of this 
particular case.
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
My provisional decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D responded and said he accepted my provisional decision. 
Great Lakes didnt provide a response within the deadline set within the decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I dont think  
Great Lakes acted incorrectly by refusing  to provide cover under the policy  for the accident  
that happened. It made Mr D aware  of the terms of the policy and it wasnt  asked to provide 
cover for the driver. If this had of happened, Great  Lakes would have been able to explain  
the driver  wouldnt be insured under the policy. 
As the insurer of Mr Ds business,  Great Lakes was obliged under the Road Traffic Act to 
meet the third parties costs relating  to the accident. And, usually in situations such  as this, it 
would look to reclaim these from the policyholder. 
Great Lakes has used  the refund of premium that would have been due to Mr D to offset 
some of the claim costs.  Overall, having  reviewed  all of the evidence  now provided  to me, 
and being mindful of the fact Great Lakes isnt pursuing Mr D for the remaining claim costs at 
this time, I dont think this is an unreasonable thing  to do in the circumstances of this 
particular case.
Ref: DRN87508943my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint  against  Great  Lakes Insurance  SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Alison Gore 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8750894