K821x#15complaint
Ms Ks home was flooded, and she is unhappy with how her claim was handled and
progressed by her home insurance provider Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. She also 
complains that RSA double counted some of her items in an attempt to show  that she should 
have had a higher sum insured and to make  it look like she had underinsured her contents.  
Ms K feels RSA didnt  act in good faith.
background
Ms Ks house was flooded in May 2018. The entire downstairs was affected to the extent
that most  of the contents were destroyed and the house was uninhabitable. RSA accepted
that all the areas affected by flood would  require full redecoration.
RSA employed third-party contractors  to remove the destroyed contents, dry out the house
and to complete  repairs. Ms K was unhappy that it took RSA three months  to clear all the
destroyed contents from her address. She said that the dehumidifiers werent brought in for
a couple of months and that because  of this, items upstairs such  as beds and curtains that
had not been damaged in the flood, became mouldy  and were  ruined.  Ms K felt that RSA
should have cleared the house  within  the first few days, then put the dehumidifiers in so that
the unaffected contents remained in good  order. Ms K says she was advised  not to touch
any of the flood damaged property herself  as it may be contaminated.
Ms K has raised a number of service  issues that she experienced between May 2018  the
flood date - and November 2019,  when her claim was fully settled.  Ms K moved back into
her address  in February 2019, she received her first settlement payment in April 2019 and
the second and final settlement payment in November 2019.
Ms K said that she contacted RSA immediately after the flood and was told by RSA that she
wasnt entitled to emergency accommodation. Ms K said that RSA then agreed that they
would pay for a rental property but didnt  help her to find a property that would accept her
and her pets. Ms K says that she found a landlord  herself, that was willing to rent a property
to her. RSA did pay for Ms Ks rental property.
As stated, she didnt receive any settlement funds from RSA until April 2019 for her contents.
By this time, she was already back in her home address. She said that RSA should have
provided her with some funds when she first moved into the rental property as she had to
use her own money to buy clothes and contents for the rental property.
Ms K felt that RSA had not handled her claim in good faith. She explained that on a couple
of occasions RSA had double counted items such as furniture and books. She said that
these items  were added  to the inventory sheets twice causing  around £7,000  of contents to
be counted twice. Ms K said that she felt RSA had done this so that they could put her in a
position where she was in excess  of her contents  insurance limit and therefore underinsured.
Ms K felt that RSA did this so that they could reduce their liability to her. RSA accepted the
double counting and once notified they removed it. They said that the double counting  was
human error and wasnt done in bad faith.
Ref: DRN84633182However, the question  of whether Ms K was underinsured  or not wasnt resolved until May
2019, a year after the flood. Ms K said this left her in a limbo  of not knowing how much  she
would be paid in a settlement and what she could afford to buy. Ms K said that when she
moved back into her home,  she still hadnt  had any settlement from RSA and had to buy all
the white goods such as fridge freezer, cooker  and washing  machine  herself.  Ms K said that
she had asked RSA a number of times to pay her money on account so that she could
purchase goods but as the underinsured issue hadnt been resolved, RSA didnt provide any
money on account. Ms K said that fortunately she was in a position to buy these items
without going  into debt.
Ms K said that she felt let down by RSA as throughout  the claim she had several  different
loss adjusters. Ms K said that there  was a lack of communication and updates from RSA, in
that they didnt  notify her when loss adjusters  were  replaced. Ms K said that this meant that
she had difficulty finding out what was happening  with her claim. Each time there was a new
loss adjuster allocated to her case,  Ms K said that she had to brief them  as none of them
had read the case notes.
RSA were due to send  building  contractors  into Ms K address in October 2018 and the work
was due to be completed  by early February 2019. Ms K said that the building contractors
didnt start until January  2019 and the work  wasnt  finished until late February  2019.  So,
Ms K was out of her address for nine months.  Ms K said that the stress of being out of her
home for so long and all the issues that arose  throughout the claim caused her a great deal
of stress and had a negative effect on her physical and mental health. She said that she had
renovated the downstairs before the flood and intended to sell the house to finance her
retirement. She said that this was put on hold due to the ongoing  issues.
Ms K complained to RSA about their handling  of her claim.  RSA did acknowledge that there
had been some errors. However, to date RSA havent issued Ms K with a final response
letter. So, Ms K brought a complaint to our service. One of our investigators  looked into
Ms Ks complaint. The investigator thought that there had been failings in RSAs  handling of
Ms Ks claim and said that RSA should  pay Ms K £300  for distress and inconvenience.
RSA accepted the investigators view but Ms K didnt. Ms K asked for an ombudsman  to
make a decision.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the evidence  submitted and the accounts of both parties, I intend to uphold
Ms Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
I have had a useful conversation with Ms K, this conversation gave me a real feel for the
issues she experienced throughout the course  of this claim. I am grateful to Ms K for her
time in explaining this to me. However, in terms of this judgement I want  to concentrate  on
the following  issues:
Ref: DRN84633183Did RSA progress Ms Ks claim in a timely  manner?
Did RSA act in good faith in the handling of Ms Ks claim?
Did RSA keep Ms K updated during  the claims process?
Has RSAs handling of the claim caused Ms K unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience?
Did RSA progress Ms Ks claim  in a timely manner?
When an insurer is contacted by a customer after an incident,  Id expect them to assist their
customer by making reasonable efforts to gather all the evidence  and deal with the claim
promptly and fairly.  Id expect the insurer to provide reasonable  information to their customer
on the progress  of the claim. However, I would not expect an insurer to make a decision on a
claim until they had the opportunity to gather and review the relevant evidence, so long as
the evidence is gathered  and reviewed in a timely  manner.
Ive reviewed the case notes, calls and communications between Ms K and RSA, this has
given me a good understanding of the timeline of events and communication between Ms K
and RSA.
Ms Ks address was flooded in May 2018.  Building contractors commenced work in January
2019 and Ms K moved  back  in at the end of February 2019. This meant Ms K was out of her
address for nine months  in total.
I have considered what would have been a reasonable  amount of time for Ms Ks claim to
have been dealt with by RSA. I think that the house  could have been cleared  of flood
damaged contents  and dried in one month.  This would have taken us to late June 2018.  We
already know that the building contractors had planned to work  for four months - from
October 2018 to early  February 2019  - making good  the interior  of the address. According to
Ms K it only took the contractors two months from January 2019 to late February 2019.
However, the time line proposed for those works seem reasonable. So, if the contractors
started in late June 2018, this would then take us to late October 2018.
So, I think that if RSA had dealt with Ms K claim  promptly and as I would have expected
them to, Ms K would  have  been back in her address by late October 2018. Ms K wasnt  back
in her address until late February 2019, some  four months later than I would  have expected.
Ms K and her pets spent  four months longer than necessary at the rental address.
Did RSA act in good faith in the handling  of Ms Ks claim.
RSA said that they could  not confirm to Ms K whether or not she was underinsured until all
enquiries had been completed. They admitted that some  items had been put into the
inventory sheets twice  and that this was down to human error. And was not done to engineer
a situation whereby Ms K would breach the limit of her contents cover  and therefore  reduce
the amount of cover she was entitled  to. RSA removed the duplicated items as soon as they
became aware  and provided copies of all inventory sheets for transparency. In May 2019,
they said they would not be applying any deductions for underinsurance in respect  of Ms Ks
claim. RSA said that ascertaining the adequacy of the sums insured can be a challenging
task given the extent  of the items that ordinarily  make up the sum insured.
Ref: DRN84633184I think that its more likely than not that RSA did not double count in bad faith. Im satisfied on
the balance of probability that the double counting was a genuine human error and wasnt  to
engineer a situation whereby Ms K was underinsured.
Did RSA keep Ms K updated during  the claims process?
Ms K has had several  different loss adjusters deal with her claim. The handovers between
loss adjusters were  unannounced and unexplained. Ms K had in most cases  discovered the
change of loss adjuster  herself when she phoned RSA for updates.  Ive already explained
the issues that arose with the inventory sheets and establishing what contents had been
destroyed and what had been salvaged. This task, as RSA have said themselves is a
difficult one.
However, when the loss adjusters are repeatedly changed  this makes the task more  difficult,
especially for the customer who in this case  had to brief the new loss adjusters  on each
occasion. RSA in their case notes,  are critical of their own loss adjusters handling  of the
claim. Im glad that RSA have acknowledged this, and Im satisfied that the lack of updates,
consistency and ownership contributed to the delays and to Ms Ks distress  and
inconvenience. Im confident  that if RSA had provided Ms K with regular updates on at least
a weekly basis and notified her whenever a loss adjuster was changed, this would have
provided a much more  positive customer experience  for Ms K. RSAs  actions werent
sufficient and contributed  to Ms Ks distress and inconvenience.
Has RSAs handling of the claim  caused  Ms K unnecessary distress and
inconvenience?
As Ive said I think that Ms K was out of her address for four months longer than I would
have expected. Im satisfied that if RSA had progressed  the claim as I would have  expected
them to this would have saved Ms K from a great deal of stress and anxiety. Ms K had to get
too involved in the process  to drive it forwards. RSA should have been  doing this. Although,
RSA have acknowledged that mistakes  were made and that it wasnt progressed as
promptly as it should have been,  I dont  think this goes far enough.
I dont think RSA acted  in bad faith.  I think that the delays were  caused by insufficient
resourcing, lack of planning and human  error. However, Im satisfied that the claim wasnt
dealt with as promptly as it should have  been. Ms K didnt receive any contents settlement
until April 2019, by which time she was back in her home address.
Ms K said that the rental address was convenient for travel and she was reasonably content
there, in that it was suitable for her and her pets. Ms K felt that RSA should  have  paid her
some settlement on account so that she could  purchase contents for the rental address and
to allow  her to purchase the white goods  she required when she moved back into her home.
I agree  with Ms K and I think that RSA should have paid her some  settlement on account. I
dont think it was fair or reasonable to expect Ms K to use her own money to buy these
items. This meant that Ms K had to use her own money and was without it until she was paid
her settlements by RSA in April and November 2019.
I also dont think that it was fair and reasonable for RSA to take 18 months to settle Ms Ks
claim in full. It took RSA around a year to confirm that Ms K wasnt  underinsured. Whilst I
accept that it is a difficult process to establish the exact cost of the contents and buildings
claim, RSA are experts  in this field, and its not fair or reasonable to leave a customer  in
limbo for around a year worrying that they may be underinsured.
Ref: DRN84633185I have no reason to doubt Ms Ks account  of how the poor handling  and progression  of her
claim caused her distress and inconvenience. And again, I am grateful to Ms K for taking the
time to talk through  her experience with me.
I think that RSA should pay Ms K £800  for the distress and inconvenience of being  out of her
home address for four months longer  that was necessary,  for having to use her own money
to replace essential items and for the excessive amount of time it took RSA to settle  Ms K
claim and to confirm that she wasnt underinsured.
the response to my provisional  decision 
RSA have said that they have no further  comments to add in relation to my provisional 
decision. 
Ms K said that she wasnt discontent with my comments, but she raised a number of areas 
that she wished  me to address, namely:
The proposal that her level of cover could be reduced by the payments made to the 
recovery company, thereby rendering her underinsured.
RSA based  their assessment on an outdated and irrelevant policy  document.
The proposal that any payment to her for a cash settlement should be reduced by 
20%.
Ms K has also raised other matters that relate to RSAs ethics  and business  practices.  I will 
deal with those  separately.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K is unhappy that her cover could be reduced by the payments made to a recovery 
company, and thereby render her underinsured.  Ms K said that she could not see how she 
could be liable for such costs which had never been discussed with her, over which she had 
no control. 
Ms K has made a good point here.  I have reviewed  the policy  documents and there  is no 
provision whatsoever in the policy to clarify  this matter. Im glad that RSA have agreed that 
the cost related to clearing Ms Ks property wont be taken out of Ms Ks contents  claim. 
Clearing the property bore no reflection  to the contents sum insured and should  not be used 
to reduce it. Im glad that RSA have settled this matter in the manner I would have expected  
them to. 
Ms K feels that RSA have based their assessment on an outdated and irrelevant policy. Her 
buildings have been insured by RSA for a number of years. The most relevant  policy  
document is usually  going  to be the one thats dated closest to before the sale took place. 
When a customer has been with the same  insurer for a number of years then there may be 
some confusion as to which policy document is relevant. If an insurer has sent a customer 
an updated policy document  on renewal, then I would  consider that updated policy document 
to be the relevant one. 
Ref: DRN84633186RSA have now accepted that the relevant document was the Home Choice Insurance 
R00841L (02-18). This is the policy that Ms K rightly stated was the relevant policy. This 
policy does cover documents and deeds.  Im happy  that RSA have  now confirmed that Ms K 
was correct and that they had been  referring to the wrong policy.  Im also happy that RSA 
have covered Ms Ks documents, as these  were specifically excluded by the older policy 
document, namely R00841E (05-13)  which RSA initially presented to Ms K and our service 
as the relevant policy. 
Ms K queried why any payment for a cash settlement should  be reduced by 20%.  I have 
reviewed the policy  documents  and there is no provision  to reduce any cash  settlement by 
20%. However, the policy states: when we agree  to pay our customer a cash  settlement, 
then payment will normally  not exceed  the amount we would have paid our preferred  
supplier. 
I would expect an insurer to put a consumer  back in the position they were in prior to the 
damage or loss, or as near as it can. If the insurer chooses to settle the claim with a cash 
settlement, the amount  of cash  paid to the consumer  should be enough to put them back  in 
the position they were in before the loss or damage. Ms K is satisfied that the cash 
settlement provided  by RSA is sufficient, so Im happy that RSA have done  what I would 
have expected them to do. 
Based on everything  that Ive seen in response  to my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to reach  a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional  decision.
As mentioned earlier, Ms K raised other matters that relate  to RSAs ethics and business 
practices. These are wider issues that relate to the market. Ms K should  raise these matters 
with the business or the regulator. These  are not matters that this service can resolve.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
I direct  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Ms K £800* for her material
distress and inconvenience.
*Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must  pay the compensation within 28 days from when
we tell it Ms K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest at
8% simple  a year on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of
payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8463318