K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs T says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1999.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs T owed on her store  card. The policy would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs T couldnt work  because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs T that the policy was optional  and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs T says the PPI wasnt discussed  with her and she 
was just told where to sign on the form, without any explanation.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale and I can 
see that there is a section  to apply for Account  Cover  the name  used by FICL for PPI. In 
this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Mrs T has signed  the section to confirm she wanted the cover. If Mrs T didnt want  to take out 
the PPI she could have left this section blank. And Mrs T has signed the overall  application 
form which suggests it reflected what she wanted.
Ive thought about Mrs Ts comments about  the sales person telling her where to sign and 
not bringing to her attention that she was agreeing to take out PPI. While I appreciate  her 
comments, Mrs T was making  an application  for additional  credit and I would have expected  
her to have  read through the form before she signed  it. And if she didnt want  to take out the 
PPI, I think  she would have raised this with the sales person at the time.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs T 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
Ref: DRN87774932From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to Mrs T. 
So it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it 
gave Mrs T clear enough information about  the policy to enable her to decide for herself if 
she should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs T 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations to the cover,  such as having  unusual working arrangements  or a medical 
condition of which she was already  aware.
Mrs T has said she didnt  need the policy as she was entitled to full sick pay from her 
employer for 40 weeks. But this policy would have paid out until she returned to work or until 
the outstanding balance  had been  repaid  whichever came first. And it would  have paid out 
in addition to, and potentially for longer than, her sick pay. The policy would also have 
provided cover for the same term if she was to lose her job. As it appears Mrs T didnt have 
any savings or other means with which to meet her repayments if she wasnt earning,  I think  
this policy  could have  provided a useful  benefit  to her.
Ive thought about what Mrs T has said about  her partner being able to help her with the 
repayments. While Im sure her partner would  have wanted to help, support from others cant  
be guaranteed  as their circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable  to provide 
such finance assistance. So this point doesnt alter my decision.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs T has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8777493