K820x#14complaint
Mr A queries  the offer price he paid for units in a Unit Trust (UT) he instructed Hargreaves 
Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) to buy for him on 7 August 2018.
background
Mr As key points are:
The contract note for his purchase shows the offer (purchase) price of 137.3000  per 
unit and it says he  received a saving of 3.00% on [the] deal.
The 3.00%  saving was consistent with the saving advertised to customers  at the 
time. He does not have specific evidence of the advertisement  but recalls  seeing it 
either through the post or online.
He enquired into the pre-discount offer price per unit and learnt it was 141.24. The 
difference between  this and what he paid did not produce  a 3.00% saving. He 
calculated that he had incurred a shortfall  in units purchased  as a result of this. 
Hargreaves has neither given a justifiable explanation for this nor has it corrected the 
matter by covering  the shortfall  in units.  Hence his complaint.
Hargreaves position is mainly as follows:
The UTs units  were  based on a dual priced model, in which there  was a bid price, an 
offer price,  a bid/offer  spread in between  (which included an initial charge) and an 
approach to overall pricing on either a bid basis or an offer basis. 
Generally, pricing was done  on an offer basis whereby an initial charge is added to 
the cost of each  unit (the units creation price) to arrive at the offer price  per unit. The 
bid/offer spread is then subtracted from the offer price to arrive  at the bid price.  
However, pricing could shift to a bid basis in circumstances where  the fund manager 
is faced with outflows  from the fund and is trying to safeguard  the interests  of the 
fund (and of investors who retain  holdings in the fund). On this basis,  the cost of 
cancelling each  unit (the units cancellation  price) equates  to the bid price  which  is 
lower than the bid price on an offer basis  and then the bid/offer spread is added to 
arrive at the offer price.
In Mr As case, his units were  bought  on the bid basis for pricing that applied at the 
time. He was given  the saving that was advertised  a discount up to the advertised  
3%. The initial charge (up to 3%) was discounted  to arrive at the 137.3000 
offer/purchase price. The discount was always subject to the requirement that the 
creation price for the unit could  not be breached  a unit could not be sold to 
investors for less than it costs to produce. As such, application of Mr As discount 
stopped at the creation price  of 137.3000, which is what he paid.
On the above  basis,  Hargreaves did nothing wrong in Mr As purchase.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  broadly agreed  with Hargreaves 
explanation and concluded that it should not be upheld.  Mr A disagreed with this outcome. 
He said the explanations that have been  referred  to by Hargreaves and the investigator  
including the notion that the discount and/or the initial charge could  be less than 3% in some 
circumstances  was not present in the promotions he recalls  or in the contract note he has 
provided. He said, in straightforward  terms, he was told a 3% saving had been applied to his 
purchase but comparison between what he paid and the pre-discount price  shows less than 
a 3% saving,  so there is a mismatch. The matter was referred  to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN85008602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In isolation, Mr As argument  is correct. The contract  note includes the simple statement 
quoted above, which says he benefitted from a 3% saving in the purchase;  and a 
comparison between the unit price of 137.3000 he paid and the pre-discount unit price of 
141.24 that Hargreaves has confirmed produces less than a 3% saving  it produces a 
saving of around 2.8%.
The conclusion that follows is that the contract  note statement  about  the saving could or 
should have been worded or explained  in better terms. However,  for reasons  I explain  
below, I do not consider  that the statement sought to mislead Mr A and Hargreaves has not 
disputed that the saving  he received was less than 3%. For the same  reasons, below, I am 
not persuaded that the complaint should  be upheld.
There is evidence that an initial  charge  of (or around) 3% would have applied to Mr As 
purchase. This would  have been  part of the bid/offer spread. Hargreaves  applied a discount  
of the initial  charge to Mr As purchase. It appears  that this is what the contract note 
statement sought to describe  but did not describe as clearly as it could or should  have. 
Given that Hargreaves did what it appears  to have tried to describe  in the contract  note, I do 
not consider  on balance   that the contract  note was intended to mislead Mr A.
Hargreaves submissions about the dual pricing  model are supported  by information that has 
been shared about the UT and the pricing  of its units. Mr A has pointed out that some of the 
information relates to a time period after his purchase and after he says the dual pricing 
model was changed to a single pricing model. I note his argument about  the irrelevance of 
such documents. However,  there  remains a sufficient basis to conclude that the dual pricing 
model worked and was applied as described  by Hargreaves. That included application of the 
creation price as the price  below which units could  not be sold to investors. 
It is reasonable to expect  that the promotions about the savings at the time of Mr As 
purchase would have explained that the savings  were  subject  to application of the creation 
price (as a minimum  offer price). In the absence of evidence of the relevant advertisements  
or promotions, I do not have a basis to conclude  that they did not do this. The saving applied  
to Mr As purchase stopped at the creation price as it was supposed to do. That meant,  he 
benefitted from close to, but not exactly, the 3% saving stated in the contract  note. That too 
was supposed  to be the case, given that the full 3% discount would have breached  a 
creation price that could not be breached.
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that there  is ground  to uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 3 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8500860