K820x#14complaint
Miss C has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
background
Miss Cs car was insured with Admiral.  In October 2018, her car was damaged during an 
accident and she claimed on her policy.  Admiral immediately decided the car was a total loss 
based on what Miss C told them. 
As Miss C had bought her car on finance, Admiral  settled her outstanding  finance  using her 
total loss settlement to pay the finance provider.
Around a month later Admiral decided they would get the car assessed to confirm  whether it 
was a total loss or if it could be repaired.  Their engineer confirmed it was a total loss.
Miss C complained because she was unhappy  with several aspects  of Admirals service.  
Admiral paid Miss C a total of £525 in compensation after agreeing  their service fell below 
the standard expected.  But Miss C didnt think that went far enough so she brought her 
complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into it. He felt that Admirals  
compensation was reasonable  so he didnt ask them to do anything more.  As Miss C didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Miss C, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
In her complaint, Miss C has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  Its 
accepted that Admirals  service was poor. But the reason  the complaint isnt being upheld is 
because I think Admirals  compensation is reasonable. I will now briefly consider the 
individual heads of complaint.
total loss decision
Admiral accepted they didnt follow their correct process which  led to them giving Miss C 
conflicting information. As soon as Miss C made her claim Admiral decided  the car was a 
total loss without assessing  it. They processed the claim and paid Miss Cs finance  provider 
in early November 2018.  But around  a month later they told Miss C they would get an 
engineer to assess the car as it might  be repairable. That gave  Miss C hope  that her car 
would be repaired and returned to her, which is what she wanted. After  the car was 
assessed the engineer confirmed it was a total loss. But Admirals poor handling caused 
Miss C distress and inconvenience.  Miss C said she was told by her finance provider that if 
Admiral decided her car was repairable and they asked  the finance  provider to refund the 
settlement they had made, that would have put her in arrears  given she hadnt made 
payments during the period Admiral had treated  the car as a total loss. While that eventuality 
never materialised because the decision that the car was a total loss didnt change, it caused 
Miss C distress.
Ref: DRN87549072Admirals valuation of the car was around  £15,000.  And the estimated cost of repair  was 
over £13,000. Admiral therefore  said it was uneconomical to repair. Its a matter for Admiral  
to decide whether it is or isnt economical  to repair a car, but most insurers consider it 
uneconomical to repair  a car when the repair cost is a high percentage when compared to a 
cars market  value. And in this case the estimated repair cost was a very high percentage of 
the cars  market value.  Miss C disputed that and said she did her own research of what  parts 
were needed  to repair her car. She obtained prices of parts  from the manufacturer  and she 
said the cost to repair her car would have been substantially lower  than what  Admiral  said it 
would be. She also said Admiral  added non-repair  related  costs  to the repair  figure to inflate 
it. But I can see that Admiral had an engineer complete the assessment  and he produced a 
very detailed  estimate in a format widely used within the industry. And that estimate only 
contains the costs  involved  in repairing the accident related damage to the car. With respect 
to Miss C, I dont believe she is qualified to provide a professional  estimate as Admirals 
engineer has. So, I think  the estimated cost of repair provided  by Admiral is accurate.
courtesy car
Miss C was unhappy that she wasnt provided a courtesy car while she was without her own 
car. She said not having a courtesy  car inconvenienced her greatly  as she needed a car to 
drive to work. She said she had to at times  borrow her brothers car which inconvenienced 
him. And during other times she had to pay for public transport or pay for hotel stays, I 
understand to be close to her place of work.
But under her policy Miss C wasnt entitled to a courtesy car because her car was a total 
loss. Her policy said she would be given a courtesy  car if her own car was being repaired at 
one of Admirals approved  repairers. But that was never the case as her car was at no stage 
being repaired. Miss C said that some other insurers would have given her a courtesy  car in 
her circumstances. That might be the case, but I dont think  what any other insurer would 
have done is relevant  as Miss Cs insurance  was with Admiral.  And Im satisfied the terms 
relating to courtesy cars was clearly explained in the policy  documentation.  Im therefore not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
call back and updates
Miss C said she was at times  promised  by Admiral that they would call her back. She also 
said she had to chase  Admiral for updates.  I have  considered Admirals contact notes and 
Ive seen that on a number  of occasions  Admiral  did tell Miss C they would call her back.  
And from the information Ive seen Admiral did call her back  as promised. And Ive seen that 
Miss C did contact Admiral on many occasions  chasing for updates. Admiral acknowledged 
that Miss C called them a number  of times  which is why they upheld  this aspect of Miss Cs 
complaint and paid her compensation. 
buying back the cars salvage
Ive seen from the contact  notes  that Miss C did tell Admiral  that she was interested  in 
buying back the salvage of her car. She repeated that intention several times. But she said 
she was misinformed; Admiral initially told her the wrong salvage buy back figure for the car; 
and they didnt give the car a salvage  category, all of which caused unnecessary delays.  
Admiral upheld this aspect of Miss Cs complaint  on the basis  that they gave  her a number of 
different versions  of the process involved in buying  back the salvage. But they said ultimately  
Miss C decided not to buy the salvage during a conversation with Admiral  on 
11 December 2018. Miss C later told us that she made that decision because  of all the 
Ref: DRN87549073problems she experienced with Admiral  and she feared the process of buying  the salvage  
would have caused her further problems. While I think  ultimately  it was Miss Cs decision to 
not buy the salvage, its clear that Admiral  handled  this aspect of the process poorly. But 
theyve upheld this part of the complaint and paid Miss C compensation to address her 
distress and inconvenience because of that.
compensation
In addition to the aspects  of poor service  detailed above, Admiral accepted there were  a 
number of service failings, including: poor communication; delays; wrongly deducting  the 
outstanding premium from Miss Cs account  causing her to be charged an £8 fee by her 
bank; and the settlement figure  didnt  take account of the deduction of the outstanding 
premium.
Admiral paid Miss C: £10 to cover  the £8 fee she was charged  by her bank because  she 
went overdrawn when Admiral wrongly  deducted  the outstanding premium;  £25 to 
compensate her telephone charges for the calls she had to make; and £500  compensation 
to cover the poor service. I think that the compensation Admiral  paid is reasonable and its in 
line with the level of compensation our service  awards for complaints of similar  seriousness.  
For that reason  Im not asking them  to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8754907