K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr H says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons:
Because the sale was so long ago, neither  side have the original documents.  But from 
what Ive seen  of Lloyds sales process  at the time, it wouldve given  Mr H the choice to 
take or leave  PPI, and in order to get the policy he would have to have actively chosen  it. 
And Ive not seen  any evidence which shows that the PPI was displayed as anything 
other than an optional extra. So I think its most  likely  that Lloyds made it clear Mr H didnt 
have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it at the time  though  I can understand 
why he might no longer remember this after so many years.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H or not. The requirements 
were stricter  on Lloyds  if it did recommend  it, so to be fair to Mr H Ive assumed it did. 
That means Lloyds  had to check that the policy was right for him  and based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, Mr H wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI. While he had some sick pay 
through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that and offered him more 
comprehensive cover   especially when his sick pay reduced  to just half pay: a serious 
drop in income.  And Mr H doesnt  appear  to have had any other cover in case he lost his 
job, aside from some very limited savings.  So it looks like the PPI couldve  been  useful for 
Mr H in case he was off sick or lost his job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to 
have changed  his mind. But as I said above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have  been  useful for Mr H if something  
went wrong. Mr H said his credit card repayments were  small, but that wouldve meant  his 
PPI payments were  proportionally small too. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Mr H could cancel it at any time without  a penalty. Overall, I dont think  better  
information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN87333842To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr H any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr H the difference between 
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr H 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done  this, then I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8733384