K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Skipton  Building Society  failed to make it clear  that they both 
needed to sign a contract variation in order to secure a new fixed rate on their mortgage. 
They want  Skipton to refund the additional interest that they paid when their mortgage  
reverted to the standard interest rate, and also pay them £200 additional compensation.
background
Skipton wrote to Mr and Mrs J on 22 October  2018. The letter explained that their mortgage 
interest rate was coming to an end on 31 January 2019 and that from 1 February 2019 their 
interest rate would automatically change to the standard  variable rate. 
Mr J made  an application  to change the interest rate. An email was sent to him on 24 
January 2019  with a link to sign online,  which he signed immediately. He then didnt receive  
any further communication  from Skipton until he noticed that his interest rate had increased.  
He and his wife both signed a copy of the variation offer at this point  and sent it to Skipton. 
And Mr J contacted Skipton to query why the interest rate had increased.  But Skipton 
explained that this was because it hadnt received the fully signed contract of variation  until 7 
February, so could only action the switch from that date.
Mr J complained to Skipton. He said that the emails hed received hadnt  made  it clear  that 
both he and his wife were required  to sign. And he said that Skipton should have chased him 
for the second  signature if this was required.
Skipton sent Mr and Mrs J its final response  letter on 28 February 2019. It said,  in summary:
it believed that the information it had sent made it clear  that both Mr and Mrs J were 
required to sign the documentation. 
In any event, it had explained  in its letter dated  22 October 2018 that it needed to 
receive all documents  before 20th of the month in order  to guarantee that it could 
implement the rate switch the following month. So even  if the contract variation had 
been correctly  signed on 24 January 2019  it may still have been  unable to implement 
the rate switch  before February. 
It apologised for the fact that it hadnt contacted  Mr and Mrs J to chase the second 
signature required for the rate switch. Due to this it offered  them £60 compensation.
Our investigator felt that Skipton had treated Mr and Mrs J fairly. But Mr and Mrs J dont 
agree, and have  asked  for their complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman. They say in 
particular that they have  suffered financial loss due to the error as they had to pay additional 
interest for a month, so the compensation offered is insufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, I agree with our investigator that Skipton hasnt  acted 
unreasonably. I appreciate that this will be a disappointment for Mr and Mrs J, so Ill explain 
why Ive reached this decision.
Ref: DRN85379892I appreciate that Mr J feels that it wasnt made  clear  that both he and Mrs J needed to sign 
the contract  variation. But Ive seen a copy of the mortgage illustration  and contract variation 
offer dated 24 January 2019  which was sent to Mr and Mrs J by email. I can see that this 
says, on the second page:
Once you have selected the product you wish to switch to, you will need to provide your 
acceptance securely online (acceptance from all borrowers is required) when requested  to 
do so.
Im satisfied from this that Skipton did make  it clear that both Mr and Mrs J needed to accept 
the contract  variation. 
In its final response letter,  Skipton apologised for the fact it hadnt contacted Mr and Mrs J to 
chase for the second signature  required for the rate switch. It offered them £60 
compensation for this issue. 
I note that Mr J says that he and his wife have suffered  financial loss as a result of Skiptons 
failure to chase for the second signature. As their mortgage rolled over onto the standard  
variable rate for a period of time they paid around  £140 extra  in interest.  So they say that the 
compensation Skipton has offered is insufficient.
Ive considered what Mr J has to say. But I note that the letter from Skipton to Mr and Mrs J 
dated 22 October 2018 explained that if they wanted to make a product switch  they would 
need to submit their instructions online by 20th of the month in which  the current  rate ended. 
Mr J signed the contract variation on 24 January. And, although I appreciate that Mr J feels 
that the variation would in practice have been  processed by 1 February  if Skipton had 
chased for the missing signature there  was no guarantee that this would have happened.  
So, in the circumstances, I dont agree that Mr and Mrs J have suffered any financial loss as 
a result of Skipton  not chasing for the missing signature. And I find that the £60 
compensation that Skipton has offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this 
complaint. So I dont require Skipton to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 June 2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8537989