K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs W took out with a credit  agreement in 1999.  Its 
been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint. So, for 
clarity, Ill refer to FICL  in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint because I dont think FICL gave Mrs W 
clear enough  information  about  the limitations and exclusions in the PPI policy.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any medical condition which Mrs W knew  about  at 
the start of the policy. And I havent  seen clear  evidence that Mrs W was made sufficiently 
aware of this term during the sale.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs W because shes told us that at the time of the sale she 
was suffering from a medical condition. Shes told us she was diagnosed  with the condition 
when she was very young, and shes been consistent about it throughout her complaint. So I 
think its likely she did have the condition at the sale of the policy.
FICL has asked to see evidence of how the condition affected Mrs Ws ability to work. But 
Mrs W has said that she takes  medication  for her condition, and Ive not seen anything  to 
suggest that her condition  was so minor that she wouldnt want any potential claims as a 
result of it to be covered  by the PPI policy. FICL  has also made generic arguments about the 
type of condition Mrs W has. But it hasnt sent us any specific  information or arguments 
about Mrs W or why she would still have wanted  the policy despite her condition.
So I dont  think theres enough evidence to say that Mrs W would  still have wanted  to take 
the policy even  if shed been  told any claims resulting  from her existing condition wouldnt be 
covered. And so, based on what Mrs W has told us, I dont think she wouldve taken the 
policy if it had been made clear to her that any time off work as a result of the condition 
wouldnt have been covered by it. So I think shes lost out as a result of FICL not making  the 
exclusion clear to her.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs W in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and FICL should:
Ref: DRN89319522Pay Mrs W the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is and 8% a year.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs W a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8931952