K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about repair works  carried out by contractors  on behalf of Zurich 
Insurance PLC. Mr and Mrs B made a claim for damage under their home insurance policy.
 
background
Zurich agreed to carry out the repairs to Mrs Bs home. These repairs  included redecorating 
and removing skirting  boards  downstairs  to replace  floor tiles.
Mrs B said the final costs for the works were much  higher than the schedule  of works 
estimate. She said the contractor listed works that werent carried out. Mrs B was very 
unhappy with the final repairs. Among her concerns, she said the skirting boards hadnt  been 
removed or replaced  and a gap had been  left between the tiles and the skirting board  which  
had been poorly  finished  in with grout. 
Zurich instructed a surveyor  to look at the works carried out and they agreed  remedial work 
was needed. But Mrs B doesnt agree that remedial work is enough  and hasnt agreed to 
this. She believes the work needs  to be done  again  from scratch.  
Zurich offered Mrs B £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. It also 
offered to pay Mrs B a settlement sum of £1,400  so she could make her own arrangements 
for the remedial work. 
Mrs B didnt accept and asked us to look at her complaint.  
Our investigator thought Zurich had done  enough  to put things right. Mrs B was given the 
opportunity to provide a report from another surveyor to show  that the works would need  to 
be done again from scratch. Mrs B didnt provide any new information.  So the investigator 
thought it was reasonable to allow Zurich the opportunity to remedy the original works. He 
explained that if  after the remedial works  were  done Mrs B remained unhappy, she was 
entitled to raise a new complaint. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said theres  no way remedial work  will put things right. So she wants  
an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Theres no dispute that the initial repairs werent  carried out to a good standard. And Zurich 
said its been credited  by the contractor for some of the claimed work which they couldnt 
prove they had carried out as a result  of Mrs Bs concerns. But Zurich  is satisfied with the 
contractors acceptance  and agreement to carry out the remedial works.
When things go wrong,  we look at what an insurer did to put things right and whether that 
was reasonable.  
Ref: DRN86298422In this case, I think Zurichs recommendations are fair and reasonable. I understand Mrs B 
doesnt agree  but Zurich  is relying  on the professional  opinion  of a qualified surveyor who 
inspected the initial repair works. The surveyor reported that remedial works  should put 
things right. And Zurich said if Mrs B wanted to instruct another  surveyor  to provide a report 
to support her view,  it would consider this. I think this was a reasonable approach to take. 
Mrs B hasnt provided evidence to contradict  the surveyors professional opinion here. 
So on balance, I cant say that Zurich has acted in an unfair  way. Its for Mr and Mrs B to let 
Zurich know how they want  to proceed: either to allow remedial works to be arranged by 
Zurich, or accept the settlement  offer of £1,400  to make their own arrangements  for remedial 
repairs. 
If Zurich is allowed to arrange remedial works  and if Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with those 
works  they are entitled  to raise any concerns they have as a new complaint to Zurich. 
Zurich offered Mr and Mrs B £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  
by the poor quality  of repairs  and the fact that remedial  works are needed. This is in line 
with similar  awards we give: examples of which  can be found on our website. So I think its a 
fair sum which Mr and Mrs B can decide if they want to accept.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I think Zurich  Insurance  PLC has done  enough to resolve 
this complaint. So my final decision is that I dont uphold it. 
Mr and Mrs B will need  to let Zurich Insurance PLC know whether they wish to accept the 
offer Zurich  has made: to either arrange  remedial repairs or pay them  £1,400 to arrange their 
own remedial repairs  in addition to £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused (if it hasnt already been  paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8629842