K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a local branch. 
The policy provided  joint and equal cover for Mr and Mrs M against  accident, sickness  and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay £117.51 a month 
towards Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage repayments in the event of a successful claim by either  
one of them. At the time of the sale, the policy  cost £11.57 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a postman. Hes told us he was entitled to sick pay, 
compensation for redundancy and death-in-service payments from his employer. Hes also 
told us he had life cover. And hes said he was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
Mrs M was employed as an assembly  worker. Shes told us she had life cover  but didnt 
have any other ways of contributing to the repayment of their joint mortgage should  she have 
been unable  to work. Mrs M has also said she was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage became regulated  following a 
further advance  taken out by Mr and Mrs M in 2006.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  believes  theres  no evidence to rebut  that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The cost, and the fact it was unlikely you could make a successful claim, meant the 
policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low claims ratio.  The common  
law duty of utmost good faith means  Lloyds should  have told Mr and Mrs M about the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN89320612The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have been given the opportunity  to 
provide their responses  to the adjudicators  opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs M arranged  a further advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN89320613The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs M, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent 
Ref: DRN89320614Mr and Mrs M suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the 1996 mortgage application which  was signed by 
Mr and Mrs M. I can see that theres  a section on the form dealing with PPI and the box to 
show this cover is wanted has been  ticked. Theres an equally prominent box that could  
have been ticked  if this cover hadnt  been wanted which has been left blank. I can also see 
that some  further tick-box questions have been  answered regarding Mr and Mrs Ms 
eligibility for the policy.  And the option of splitting the policys  monthly benefit equally 
between them has been chosen. 
Lloyds have also provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage offer document. And I can 
see that the monthly cost of the policy is shown separately on this, together  with summary  
details of the cover to be provided.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they wouldnt have taken the policy if they hadnt been rushed 
and pressured  into doing so by the adviser they spoke to at the time. But I need to bear in 
mind that this all happened a very long time ago and memories  of what has taken place in 
such meetings do tend to fade with time.  And Mr and Mrs M havent  provided a particularly 
vivid or detailed account of the discussion with this adviser. So I dont think  it would  be fair 
for me to conclude  that Mr and Mrs M were  unfairly rushed or pressured into taking the PPI 
policy, based only on what  they think they remember happening now.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs M agree that advice was provided  during this sale,  so Ive taken 
this to be the case. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
There were some questions on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application with Yes/No  answers, 
which concerned  their eligibility for the PPI policy, But I dont know  what  other steps Lloyds 
took to establish whether the policy was a suitable  recommendation  for them.  And it seems 
Mr and Mrs M cant remember that clearly what happened themselves. Theres  no record of 
what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy, but this is unsurprising in respect of a 
face-to-face such as this one. The adviser  had some limited  information about 
Mr and Mrs Ms financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  evidence  to show  the 
adviser took steps to establish whether they would have been  caught by the significant 
Ref: DRN89320615exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet their needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds  considered whether Mr M or Mrs M had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration that:
-Mr and Mrs M met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ms ability 
to continue to meet their mortgage  repayments  would have been  put under strain  if 
one of them was not working  for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy benefits and sick pay benefits Mr M says he would have been entitled  to 
if he wasnt able to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ms or Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And they havent told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  have affected their ability to claim.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the requirement  
that Mr M or Mrs M be disabled for 30 days, or unemployed  for 60 days, before they 
could make a claim, and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 
12 months for each  claim),  the policy still provided valuable cover  given:
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, which they might reasonably have expected 
to have given  them sufficient income  during the policys  qualification  periods,  
whilst meaning the policy  could  play an important  role thereafter.
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to 
Mr and Mrs Ms home and the potential  consequences should Mr and Mrs M 
have been unable to make these  repayments  secured  against  their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what it was 
recommending to them and for them to make an informed decision about  whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description  of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would help to protect their payments 
if Mr M or Mrs M was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of 
the approximate  costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think  its unlikely 
Ref: DRN89320616Mr and Mrs M would  have  taken out the policy without  any sense of what  the policy  was for 
and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information - about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual  cost or about the exclusions or 
limitations - before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs M, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. and Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  their significance to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs Ms representative suggested. And taking into account 
the law, industry  codes  and standards of good  industry practice applicable to this complaint, 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that Lloyds ought to have done  either.
 
Ref: DRN89320617what effect did Lloydss  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs M? To what  extent did 
Mr and Mrs M suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs M. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs M suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must  decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs M would have  still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs M have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs M would  have acted differently, or whether they would  have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy - that would protect  their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment - they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting may not have been exactly what  
they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs M s circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I havent seen anything  to satisfy me that Lloyds told Mr and Mrs M 
the exact premium  at the point they applied for the policy. But it seems Mr and Mrs M were  
told the cost before the policy started  - the monthly cost was shown separately on the 
mortgage offer document. And they paid for the policy for a number  of years,  so if the costs  
were significantly  at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might 
have raised that with Lloyds, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs M would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ms 
Ref: DRN89320618expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
enable them to meet  their mortgage payment) were  significantly  different to what  the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr or Mrs M had 
suffered from, or consulted a medical  practitioner about, in the 12 months preceding  
the start of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  in certain 
circumstances, for example, if the policyholder was in temporary or seasonal  
employment;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought. The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other 
shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to those  of Mr and Mrs M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of the sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs M were  eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  could  have proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs M would have been caught by any of the significant  
exclusions  Mr and Mrs M didnt have  any pre-existing medical  conditions  and were in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept that back pain and mental  health conditions are common problems and the policys 
conditions in relation to these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs M might reasonably have 
expected. But while these limitations  might  have dissuaded some  consumers in slightly 
different circumstances to Mr and Mrs M from taking  out the policy, in their circumstances, I 
think they still had some good  reasons  to take it out.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs B that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than Mr M would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs M would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should either of them be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Ms sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use.
Ref: DRN89320619So, having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more 
likely than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if one of them  was made  
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances, I consider 
it more likely than not Mr and Mrs M would have taken out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  says the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs M found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
Ref: DRN893206110provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1996  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs M and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8932061