K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about a car he leased  through a conditional sale agreement.  The 
finance was provided by GMAC UK plc  which has since changed its name to Vauxhall 
Finance plc. Mr B got the car through a dealership.  
Mr B complains he was not sold the car he had been promised  he says he had been told 
he would  be getting  a top of the range  model. And Mr B said there were problems with the 
car soon  after he took delivery of it. 
background
In April 2017 Mr B went to a dealership to buy a second hand car but says he was 
encouraged by the salesperson to get a brand new car instead. Mr B says he was promised 
the top model for the car he was looking to get. 
Mr B signed  the vehicle  order form on 4 April 2018;  the handover checklist  was signed by 
Mr B on 7 April 2017 and the conditional  sale agreement to finance the car appears to have  
been signed on 8 April 2017. 
Setting aside that it appears the credit agreement was signed by Mr B after taking 
possession of the car, Mr B says he did have the car on Friday  7 April 2017. Mr B says he 
then realised over the weekend this was not the car he had believed he was getting.  This 
was mainly because  the car didnt include a satellite navigation system or CD player. 
Mr B says he returned to the dealership to tell them this, but was told he wasnt allowed to 
return the car. Mr B then said he discovered  the car he had been given was not the top 
model, but the model below. Two months  later Mr B raised some concerns about problems 
he was experiencing with the running of the car. 
Various communications  followed  between Mr B and the different parties involved  
including the dealership,  the dealerships head  office and Vauxhall Finance. Mr B 
complained to everyone about how the car had been presented to him and that it wasnt  
working properly. 
The dealership didnt think it had mis-sold the car to Mr B, but as a gesture of goodwill 
offered to find a similar car  with the features Mr B wanted  so that Mr B could swap his 
car without  any changes to his finance agreement. For various  reasons Mr B didnt accept 
the alternative car that was offered.  And after a little while, that particular  car was sold and 
no longer available. It seems the dealership then tried  but was unable   to find something 
else. 
I issued my provisional findings to Mr B and Vauxhall  Finance,  and explained what  I thought  
about Mr Bs complaint.  Ive summarised my provisional findings  below.  
I obtained a copy of a decision issued by another dispute resolution  organisation 
which dealt with part of the complaint that Mr B had brought to our service. 
I explained that I had looked  at the rules  this service follows  (which  are set out in the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys Handbook) and that in this particular case, I didnt think  
it would  be appropriate  for me to consider any part of Mr Bs complaint that had 
Ref: DRN80523482already been looked  at by the other  organisation. That organisation had considered 
and concluded  the car Mr B was given  was not mis-sold to him, they didnt uphold  
Mr Bs complaint and said hed been  given the car that he had signed  for. I therefore 
didnt look into Mr Bs complaint about the sale of the car. 
However, I considered  it appropriate for me to look at the concerns  Mr B had raised 
about the quality of the car. 
After looking through  all the available evidence and submissions I was minded not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint  about  the quality  of the car. 
This was because a letter  from Vauxhall Finance to Mr B issued on 16 October 2017 
noted that the problems  with the car were fixed and no further problems were 
showing after a second diagnostic report.  
An engineers report in August 2017  recorded  a tapping noise had started around two 
months after Mr B had the car, but no fault was found through  testing. And the same  
was said of a vibration  noise from the dashboard. The engineer  recorded  Mr Bs 
concerns about  the air conditioning, but again  was unable to find a fault at the time of 
testing. There was a note which said the in-vehicle  system wasnt working properly, 
but once more no fault could be found with it. The engineer  cleared  the system on 
Mr Bs car and he was asked to return later in the month for further checking. On 
returning, the engineer checked for fault codes,  but couldnt find any in the system. 
It seemed Mr B then continued to use the car while pursuing his complaint  about the 
sale of the car. And I explained  I hadnt  been made aware of Mr B following up with 
any further problems  to do with the quality of the car at that time.  
In May 2018  Mr B received correspondence from Vauxhall to say there may be some  
potential problems with the car due to a software deviation and they were recalling 
customers to their garages to rectify the problem. I noted that Mr B did this and 
confirmed he hadnt had these particular problems with the car again. 
Based on the evidence,  I concluded that it seemed  Mr B may have had some 
problems with the car within  a couple  of months  of getting it, but they were  sorted out 
be re-setting the system  in August  2017. And the recall in May 2018  helped 
consolidate this. I explained I was also mindful  that Mr B had always been  able to 
drive the car, so hed never suffered  loss of use, and that his submissions had been  
that he didnt have these problems after the recall. 
I therefore said I didnt  think there  was anything more for Vauxhall Finance  to do here 
 that is, I didnt think it would be fair to allow Mr B to reject the car. And I was 
therefore minded  not to uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint. 
There was another  part of Mr Bs complaint that I explained should be addressed 
however, and that was his concern that he had only received one working key for the 
new car. Mr B made the dealership aware  of this, but while  the second key they 
provided would start the car, it wouldnt  open  the car. So it wasnt useful to Mr B. I 
asked both parties to let me know whether or not this issue  had been resolved, 
otherwise that Vauxhall Finance should  provide another working key for Mr B. 
Ref: DRN80523483Before I issued my provisional findings, Mr B also raised some other things that had 
recently happened to the car, and referred to some  of his more  recent  exchanges 
with Vauxhall  although at times  it wasnt clear  to me which  Vauxhall Mr B was 
referring to, as I noted in my provisional decision there were different Vauxhall  
entities. I explained to Mr B that if he wished to pursue  some  of these concerns 
further, he would need to do so separately as these points had not formed  part of the 
original complaint brought to our service. 
responses to my provisional  findings  
Vauxhall Finance  plc didnt reply to my provisional  decision. 
Mr B responded to my provisional decision with several points. In summary, he told us: 
Our investigator had been sent all relevant emails and that theyd been  made  aware 
of his exchanges with the other organisation. 
He wants this service to investigate the finance  provider for providing  finance for the 
wrong vehicle. And explained again  why he thought he had been  given  the wrong 
car. 
The manager at the dealership promised to put things right, but then didnt.  And Mr B 
questioned why, if it was a genuine sale, the dealership had even made  its offer to 
put things right.  
The adjudicator  at the other organisation had put together  a proposal  which  would 
allow him to return the vehicle, but he said he had still wanted  an ombudsman  at the 
other organisation to look at the case.  
He had concerns  about our service. 
About  changes that have happened  to the dealership and that the car has gone into 
negative equity. 
Mr B made no commentary  in relation to the concerns  around  the quality of the car. 
And neither party made any further  submissions  or comments in relation to a second key for 
the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given some  of the comments in Mr Bs reply to my provisional findings,  Id like to reassure  
Mr B that all the email  exchanges he provided  to us (between him and the various parties  
involved in this case)  were all attached to his file by our investigator - so these were  
available to me prior to issuing my provisional  decision. 
Having revisited everything again before reaching  my final decision, I am mindful of Mr Bs 
strength of feeling  about whats happened and I am sorry to learn that the value of Mr Bs car 
Ref: DRN80523484is not where he had hoped  it would be at this time. So I understand why hes disappointed 
with the findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
However, based on all the evidence and submissions  available to me, I dont feel there is 
any reason to alter my conclusions as set out in my provisional decision.  That is, I dont think  
it is appropriate for me to look at how the car was sold and presented  to Mr B as this has 
already been considered. And so while Im aware of the points Mr B has made in reply  to my 
provisional decision relating to the sale of the car, I maintain  that in this case I think  it would 
be inappropriate for me to consider  them. 
As neither party has said anything  further about the quality of the vehicle, I see no need to 
change my findings in relation to that part of the complaint. So while there may have been 
some early  problems with the car, it appears those particular problems were resolved and I 
dont think theres anything further  for Vauxhall  Finance to do here.  
Lastly, as neither party has made  it clear to me whether or not Mr B was given another 
working key, my decision is that if Mr B has not been given a second  car key that works 
properly, then Vauxhall Finance plc should  arrange this for him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont think it is appropriate  for me to look at Mr Bs concerns 
relating to the sale of the car, and for the reasons above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint 
about the quality of the car. But Vauxhall Finance plc should  provide Mr B with a second  
working car key if they have not already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8052348