K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr P payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked  the possible ways in which  the PPI might  have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. However,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I think Nationwide made Mr P aware that the PPI was optional,  but that he still chose to take 
it. I can see that he signed the relevant  part of the mortgage application form, saying he had 
received information  about the PPI and that he wanted PPI.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P as being particularly suited to his individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It would have 
been for Mr P to decide  whether it was suitable.   
But, even  if Nationwide  had made  a recommendation, I think it would probably have been  an 
appropriate one in his circumstances at the time  although it would still have been up to 
Mr P to decide if he wanted to accept that recommendation. Finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mr P received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time 
when hed need to fall back  on any savings  or other means he may have  had for paying  the 
mortgage. (Mr P has said he had substantial  savings  at the time, which  he says would have 
covered the mortgage payments for three years  but it must  be remembered that, once his 
sick pay or redundancy pay ran out, he might  have needed that money to cover all the living  
expenses his previous wage  covered.)  So this all would  have put Mr P in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income  due to long term sickness  or unemployment. And Ive 
not been told anything to suggest he couldnt  afford the PPI when he took it out.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  all the costs  and benefits of the policy  
although some information  was given  on the application form. But I dont anyway think its 
likely full and clear  information about  this would have affected  whether Mr P took the PPI.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But its 
unlikely Mr P would  have been affected by any of these. And hed be paying  for it monthly,  
so he could cancel  it at any time without further  cost if his situation changed.
Ref: DRN81231402Mr P has pointed  out that Nationwide  agreed that his credit card PPI had been mis-sold, but 
that it didnt agree his mortgage  PPI was mis-sold, which represented a larger  amount. I 
dont know the details of why his credit card PPI complaint was fully upheld. But I know that 
different criteria might apply in the circumstances of that sale.  And one important 
consideration is that a mortgage  is such an important investment for most people, with 
potentially serious  consequences if it becomes unaffordable due to sickness or 
unemployment. This can often mean that PPI wasnt a waste  of money for many people.  
So my overall conclusion is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold in the way Mr P believes.  But 
Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to him because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mr P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8123140