K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited declined  her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agent.
background
Mrs K bought a pet insurance policy online for her dog. The policy started in 
September 2017 and covered a condition for 12 months from the onset  signs of a condition 
up to the policy limits.
In July 2018 Mrs Ks dog was treated for haemorrhagic gastroenteritis  and she made  a 
claim. As part of the claim assessment Red Sands saw the dogs vet notes which  showed  
the dog had been treated  for vomiting  and diarrhoea in April 2016 and May 2017.
Red Sands  declined the claim  for two reasons. First, it said the haemorrhagic  gastroenteritis 
was a pre-existing condition, which was excluded from policy  cover. Second,  when Mrs K 
bought the policy she was prompted to read the Presumptions/Assumptions. One 
presumption confirmed that she accepted Red Sands reserved the right to apply an 
exclusion to the policy in respect of any conditions that it subsequently learnt were pre-
existing at the time she took out the policy. So Red Sands added an exclusion  to the policy  
for all claims relating to the digestive system with effect from the start of the policy.  It also 
applied that exclusion  to decline the claim.
Mrs K complained to us. Shes represented  by her husband but for ease of reference  Ill just 
refer to Mrs K. She said her dogs previous two incidents of vomiting and diarrhoea were 
unrelated to the claim condition, and her vet agreed.
Our investigator thought Red Sands had fairly declined the claim.
Mrs K disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
Before I made a decision I saw that Mrs K had made an offer for Red Sands to settle  her 
claim for £200, which is less than she claimed,  to try to finalise the matter. We put Mrs Ks 
offer to Red Sands but it didnt respond.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly  and reasonably declined the claim, and on the 
evidence I have I dont  think  it did. Ill explain why.
pre-existing condition exclusion
The policy doesnt  cover  vet cost claims for:
any pre-existing condition relating to an illness that relates to or results  from an 
illness or clinical signs Mrs Ks dog had before the policy started, and
illness that has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an illness or clinical signs  
Mrs Ks dog had before  the policy started.
Ref: DRN85935322The policy definition of pre-existing condition includes  any condition, symptom  or sign of a 
condition occurring or existing in any form before the policy started.
Ive not seen any evidence from Mrs Ks vet that the claim condition and 2016 and 2017 
sickness and diarrhoea  are unrelated.  But on the vet evidence I have (the vet notes) Im not 
persuaded Red Sands can fairly  say haemorrhagic  gastroenteritis was a pre-existing 
condition.
Haemorrhagic gastroenteritis  is a serious  illness,  causing severe  vomiting and bloody 
diarrhoea and can be fatal. Mrs Ks dog was admitted to the vet for treatment.
In contrast, the 2016 and 2017 illnesses appear  to have been general sickness  and 
diarrhoea. There is suggestion  on each of those occasions that the illness was probably 
caused by the dog eating something she shouldnt  have  done. Theres  no similar suggestion  
for the 2018 condition.
I accept the dog saw the vet for sickness and diarrhoea before the policy  started, but those 
are very generic symptoms. There isnt enough  evidence for Red Sands to fairly say that 
was the start of the dog showing  clinical signs of haemorrhagic gastroenteritis.
Red Sands  can't fairly rely on the pre-existing condition  exclusion to decline the claim.
retrospective digestive system exclusion
I also dont think Red Sands can fairly add, backdate and apply the exclusion for all digestive 
systems.
Red Sands  didnt ask Mrs K about pre-existing conditions or vet treatment when she bought 
the policy. If it had, and Mrs K misrepresented the answers, it might be fair to apply 
exclusions retrospectively  if thats  what it would have done had it known the true position. 
The law allows this in some circumstances  where theres been a relevant misrepresentation. 
But as Red Sands hasnt shown me it asked Mrs K those questions there isnt an issue of 
misrepresentation.
One of the presumptions  in the sales process  is that Red Sands reserves the right to apply 
an exclusion  in respect of any illness or conditions it subsequently learns were pre-existing 
at the start of the policy.  The relevant illness was sickness and diarrhoea but Mrs K wasnt 
asked about her dogs medical history. Red Sands imposed an exclusion that was very 
broad in scope.  I dont  think  that was fair or reasonable.
The way the presumption is worded would allow Red Sands to impose  any exclusion 
whether it relates  to the specific  illness/condition or not, effectively allowing Red Sands 
complete discretion to exclude anything. I dont think thats fair.
Red Sands  should  remove  the specific exclusion on all claims with respect  to the digestive  
system with effect from the start of the policy. It cant rely on the exclusion to decline the 
claim.
Red Sands  must pay Mrs Ks claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits  and 
subject to any excess and co-payments.  If Mrs K has already paid the vet Red Sands must  
add interest as Ive detailed below.
Ref: DRN85935323responses to my provisional  decision
Red Sands  and Mrs K agreed with my provisional decision. Mrs K said she had paid the vet 
fees and detailed the amount and date of payment, which well pass on to Red Sands.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with my provisional  decision I have no reason to change  my mind.  For 
the reasons Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I uphold this complaint. 
Red Sands  must pay Mrs Ks claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits  and 
subject to any excess and co-payments,  plus interest as detailed below. It must also remove  
the exclusion for the digestive system with effect from the start of the policy.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
pay Mrs Ks claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits and subject to any 
excess and co-payments. As Mrs K has already paid the vet it must add interest* at 
8% a year simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement, and
remove the exclusion for the digestive  system with effect from the start of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by
HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs K how
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one,
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8593532