K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B engaged brokers Positive  Lending  (UK) Limited to arrange  a bridging loan. 
The loan didnt  in the event proceed  to completion. Mr and Mrs B complain that:
1. PL misled them about the process  and feasibility of arranging a bridging  loan within  their 
required timescale;
2. they didnt understand the fees theyd been  asked to pay;
3. the process  left them feeling stressed  and Mrs B unwell.
To resolve  their complaint  they want a refund of the fees which  havent  already been 
refunded by the lender.
background
PL didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  It said:
1. It first spoke to Mr and Mrs B on 19 June 2018. They  said they were under pressure from 
the builder they were  buying from and confirmed  that the completion deadline was 
29 June 2018.  The PL adviser submitted the case to a lender on-line  and forwarded  its 
illustration to Mr and Mrs B. He then called  to go through the figures  with them.
He posted the paperwork  to them that day and called the next day to go through  it with them. 
They agreed to post the signed documents and PL received them  the following day, 
21 June, and submitted  them to the lender. On 25 June 2018 the lender reported that 
although it was happy with the case,  it was unable to source a surveyor  from its panel to 
complete the valuation  in time to be able to release funds for 29 June  2018.  PL phoned and 
told Mr and Mrs B. PL said this was out of its control.
2. PL said it had gone through the lender illustrations with Mr and Mrs B and explained the 
fees and costs involved. It was clear from the recorded calls that Mr and Mrs Bs focus was 
solely on the timescale and the pressure they were under from the builder.
The adviser had tried to explain the fees clearly  and concisely  but Mr and Mrs B were 
confused between the lender application  fee and the monthly interest  and how adding fees 
would affect the overall amount theyd have to pay back when their main residence was sold. 
The illustrations also showed all fees and costs.
3. PL said it wasnt responsible for the timescales. The first option was with a lender which 
did the legal  work in house which would have been  the ideal solution from a time 
perspective. This lender  had accepted the case and was ready  to value Mr and Mrs Bs 
current and intended  properties but couldnt  find a surveyor who could visit the properties in 
the timescales presented.
From the calls PL believed Mr and Mrs B were already  being  put under  pressure by the 
builder before PL was approached to find a solution.  The builder could easily  have relaxed 
the timeframe to fit as Mr and Mrs B were demonstrating their willingness to find a way to 
buy the property.  A matter  of a few days to allow a valuation to take place, and the first 
choice recommendation would have  resulted  in funds being available.
Ref: DRN84379642Mr and Mrs B werent happy  and brought their complaint to this service. They said it seemed 
the PL adviser was operating with conflicts of interest which  amounted to acting in the 
lenders interest rather than theirs. PL had even started bringing equity release into the 
equation in the last stages  when this was never intended at the outset.
They said PL had called them asking them to travel  to sign documents. At their age it was 
unacceptable to travel such a distance at less than 12 hours notice. The experience had left 
them dissatisfied because  theyd lost the property they were intending to move  into near 
their daughter. They were  extremely distressed, and Mrs B became physically ill. They 
hadnt recovered since. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mr and Mrs Bs complaint be upheld. Shed reviewed the 
reservation form which Mr and Mrs B had signed.  This showed  they were  subject to 
exchange of contracts  within 28 days.  But it showed  an exchange date of 29 June 2018  - a 
13 day period. 
She said that if theyd  had the original timescale of 28 days  to exchange then this would 
have extended  the date to 15 July 2018. PL said this date would have been achievable with 
the first choice lender because part of the package included using the same solicitor.  It was 
unclear why Mr and Mrs B agreed the alternative date of 29 June 2018, rather  than the 
standard 28 days as per the reservation form. It may have been better if theyd contacted the 
developer to renegotiate the date to 28 days to allow the surveys to take place and 
completion could  have happened  around  3-5 days after this.
The fees were  paid to the lenders to process the applications. The fees were detailed in the 
illustrations sent to Mr and Mrs B by email and in the post and the fees werent refundable.
The adjudicator understood the pressure Mr and Mrs B were under as they didnt  want  to 
lose the property.  Shed listened to the call recordings between Mr B and PL. Whilst she 
could appreciate it was a very stressful time for Mr and Mrs B, she didnt agree this was 
caused by PL. She didnt  consider it did anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree so the complaints been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B say in their complaint form that PL applied pressure to them all the time. 
However it seems to me that the pressure resulted from the shortness of time allowed by the 
builder. In my view that was the reason  for the problem, not any deficiency  or delay on the 
part of PL.
The actual reason for being unable to meet  the deadline was the lenders difficulty  in getting 
a valuation done in the time allowed by the builder. But I cant  see that this was the fault of 
PL or that PL misled  Mr and Mrs B about the process or feasibility  of arranging the loan.
And Ive seen no evidence to support  a conclusion that PL was motivated by a desire  to 
prefer the interests of the lender over those of Mr and Mrs B. Nor is it clear  to me why failure 
to complete the loan was in the lenders interest.
Ref: DRN84379643From the call recordings, the issue about  legal fees appears to be that Mr and Mrs B 
consider these wouldnt have been payable if the loan didnt complete, as all solicitors are no 
win no fee. But the application form says legal  and valuation fees are payable upfront 
before underwriting of the loan commences. And I dont agree that conditional  fees are the 
norm in conveyancing transactions in any event.  
Mr and Mrs B also want the valuation fee refunded.  They  say no one came to value their 
property and it was a desk top valuation  so they shouldnt have to pay for this. But I think  its 
likely thats  why the fee concerned was £99. The fee set out in the illustration was £530.
In summary  Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Bs experience, however unfortunate, can be 
laid at the door of PL.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8437964