K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to follow his instructions to cancel a number of 
payments from his account.
background
Mr F had an account with Barclays but in 2013  the account was in arrears and he was 
arranging to pay off the overdraft. He wasnt able to use it for purchases at this time. Hed 
also lost his card for this account and in November 2013 it was cancelled.
Mr F says, despite this, Barclays allowed five payments  to be taken from his account, 2 on 
the 11 November  and 3 the following week. This pushed his overdraft up from, around £500  
to more than £2,000.  He says after the first two payments were taken he called Barclays and 
asked it to cancel  the payments but it failed to do so. 
Mr F feels Barclays was wrong to allow the payments to go through. His account was 
inactive and his card had been  cancelled and the payments went  above  his agreed 
overdraft. And hes unhappy that the day after the final three  payments, Barclays recorded a 
default notice  against him, which he feels was unfair.
Mr F says he wrote  to Barclays in 2013 to complain but didnt get a response. He then 
moved house in 2013 and didnt hear anything more from Barclays.  He only realised recently 
what had happened  and brought his complaint. Hed like the payments to be reversed and 
the default notice removed.
Barclays said the payments were  continuous payments authorities (CFAs) authorised  by Mr 
F, which was why theyd been paid, even though his card had been cancelled.  It was for Mr 
F to cancel  the payments  Alternatively Barclays could  ask the retailer to stop taking the 
payments and if they didnt, could raise a charge  back. Mr F hadnt  done this at the time and 
under the regulations, it was now too late to do it now. It didnt agree it had made  a mistake.  
And it said the default notice was correctly registered and reflected the use of Mr Fs account 
so it didnt agree to remove it.
Our investigator accepted what Barclays said about CPAs and the process for cancelling  
them. Hed seen Mr F had called  Barclays on 18 November  to cancel any future payments. 
But it appeared the merchant had already requested payments of the last three amounts so 
it hadnt been possible to cancel them before payment was made. Hed seen Mr F felt 
Barclays could have  done more but looking at what had happened,  and when, he didnt think  
Barclays had acted  unfairly. 
With regard to the default notice that had been recorded on the 19 November, he could see 
Mr Fs account  had been in arrears for some time so it seemed probable  it related to this 
rather than the final five payments. On that basis he didnt agree Barclays  was wrong to 
register this notice.
Mr F disagreed and asked  for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN89124922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont consider Barclays 
has acted unfairly so I wont be asking it to do anything  more as Ill now explain.
Cancellation of CPAs
I can see Mr F feels very strongly that Barclays shouldnt  have allowed the five payments to 
this retailer in November  2013 to go through. But as has been said,  these payments were 
CPAs and as such  were linked to the account,  not the card, so even though Mr Fs card had 
been cancelled,  they could still be processed.
The records  show Mr F called in on 18 November  to ask Barclays to cancel any future 
payments. I know Mr F says the date is wrong  and hed actually called the week before but 
on balance Im not sure thats correct. The system notes  which  were made at the time show  
the date of the call as the18 November and theres no record  of another  call the week 
before. 
Where theres no evidence on any particular point or the evidence available is disputed,  then 
I make  my decision  on the balance of probabilities,  in other words whats more likely to have 
happened. In this case Ive no reason to think the records are wrong and for that reason, I 
consider it more probable the call took place on the 18th.
And if I take that as the date of the call, then it would have been  too late to cancel the final 
three payments as theyd already gone  through. Barclays  however agreed  that if any further 
payments went through, it would track this with the retailer and arrange a refund. 
Unfortunately this didnt  affect the three payments on that date and I realise Mr Fs unhappy 
about this but looking  at the timeline of events in this case, I cant see Barclays could 
reasonably have stopped  these payments sooner.
It would have been open to Mr F to ask Barclays to raise a chargeback in respect of the 
three payments but I cant see that he did so at the time and under the rules of the 
chargeback scheme,  its now out of time to do so. I should add that even if he had, he would 
still have been  liable  to make the payments under his agreement with the retailer so 
financially the position would have remained the same. 
Lack of communication  from Barclays
Ive seen Mr F says he wrote to Barclays  in 2013  to complain but got no response whereas 
Barclays says it has no record of any complaint. Unfortunately Mr F doesnt  have a copy of 
the letter he sent and theres no reference to it in the records  provided by Barclays.  I dont 
doubt Mr F sent a letter but that not the same  as saying Barclays  received it. And although 
Mr F says he felt very strongly about what had happened, it seems he didnt  follow it up at 
the time.  If it had been received then Id expect to have  seen some  record of it in the notes 
on Mr Fs file but thats not the case. In the circumstances I cant be satisfied Barclays did 
get this letter  so I cant reasonably criticise it for not replying to it at the time.
Ref: DRN89124923Mr F says he didnt  receive any further communication  from Barclays  at this time so he only 
realised recently what had happened. However Barclays has provided copies of various  
letters that were sent to Mr F about  these payments and the impact on his. And I can see 
they were correctly addressed to the address it had on its system. Ive seen Mr F says he 
had a redirection in place for his post and I cant  explain why he didnt receive them.  But Im 
satisfied Barclays had tried to make contact  and for that reason I cant  reasonably  hold 
Barclays responsible  for this.
Default notice
Ive seen Mr Fs account had been running  in arrears for some  months  before these 
payments were taken  and that this notice  related to these earlier problems, not the payments 
on the 18 November.  On that basis  I cant  agree the notice was registered unfairly or that it 
should be removed  now. I should  also add that the notice would in any event be removed 
from Mr Fs credit record after 6 years so by now it will no longer have any impact on his 
credit rating.
I know this isnt the decision Mr F was hoping for but for the reasons given, I dont think 
Barclays has acted unfairly  so I wont be asking it to do anything more  to resolve this 
complaint.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8912492