K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) handled 
their home insurance claim for damage  caused by an escape of water. Their complaint is 
brought on their behalf by their son, Mr P (who  also lives at the property).
background
In September  2018, there was a leak from Mr and Mrs As bathroom  that caused  damage to 
the home office below. There was water damage  to the engineered wood flooring, the 
ceiling, a desk, some other furniture items and some soft furnishings. After obtaining 
contractors quotes  to get the damage repaired  Mr and Mrs A made  a claim to RSA. RSA 
asked Mr and Mrs A to send it the repair quotes theyd obtained following which  it appointed 
a loss adjuster  to validate and handle the claim. 
The loss adjuster visited the house  and considered the damage to the ceiling to be minor 
and that no assisted drying  was necessary. It was noted that the study floor had been 
damaged but that it was safe and that the house remained habitable with all essential 
services operating. After  the visit, the loss adjuster reported a number of concerns to RSA. 
In particular it was noted that Mr P had impersonated Mr A when reporting the claim, that he 
had a previous  conviction for deception  and that he wanted everything replaced. It was also 
noted that a business  was operated from the address.  
RSA referred the claim to underwriters to see if the policy had been offered on the correct 
terms and it spoke to its investigations team to determine whether any further  action was 
necessary. In November  2018, RSA referred  the claim  to its fraud  investigator  so that 
additional enquiries could be carried out. A visit was undertaken  after which  the claim was 
accepted. 
RSAs contractor visited in mid-November to review the damage  and prepare  the schedule  
of repairs. At the end of November, after Mr P had indicated  he was looking  for a cash  
settlement, RSA said that it could cash settle the claim (at that point assessed  as £9,978.07) 
based on the amounts its own suppliers would charge, or it could arrange for its own 
suppliers to carry out the works. 
Mr P rejected RSAs  offer and in December 2018 he sent it further contractors quotes hed 
obtained himself. Mr Ps quotes included one for almost £12,000 (including VAT) to supply 
and fit 96m2  of engineered wood flooring; one for over £33,000 (excluding VAT) for 
redecoration and replacing 100m2 of engineered wood flooring throughout the downstairs 
and another for £29,500. 
RSA thought Mr Ps quotes were overstated in comparison to those prepared  by its own 
supplier. But due to the disparity  between  the two amounts it appointed a new contractor to 
provide a further view on the reinstatement costs and the schedule  of works. Mr P said 
alternative accommodation (AA) was required along  with storage. RSA offered a brief stay in 
AA on a precautionary basis due to the health concerns of some  family members but at the 
start of February 2019, RSAs contractors confirmed that the property remained habitable. 
RSA paid Mr and Mrs A a disturbance allowance whilst they were in AA and arranged for a 
contractor to attend to remove  mould from the wall.
Ref: DRN86959912Mr P then made  two complaints to RSA. He said he wanted the disturbance allowance  
increased and backdated,  compensation paid and the claim settled. RSA issued  its final 
response to that complaint on 4 February 2019  but didnt uphold the complaint raised. 
It said it remained of the view AA, along  with any further disturbance allowance, wasnt 
warranted because  the property remained habitable and the damage was confined  to one 
room only. It said it had been fair to offer AA for a short while due to the health concerns 
raised. But it said it wasnt unreasonable to expect those family members who had health 
concerns to stay out of the damaged room especially given it was only the home office. RSA 
said there were other undamaged rooms in the property which  allowed the family to lead 
their normal  lives. Finally, RSA said it was entitled to take time to validate the claim and 
consider information  it was sent so it said it hadnt  caused any delays. 
Mr Ps second complaint  related  to the extent  of the repairs scoped. In response  to that 
complaint, RSA said the scope would remain unchanged and that it was confident it was 
comprehensive enough to see the property returned  to its pre-loss  condition.  It said it was 
currently waiting for its supplier to report whether the floor could be replaced and how much 
that would  cost. It reiterated that Mr P could  accept the cash  settlement itd offered or have 
its contractors complete the repair. It said storage  wasnt currently necessary. It said any 
inconvenience the family had experienced was the result  of the claim itself not anything itd 
done. Mr P said he wanted  to see RSAs costed schedule but it said it couldnt let him have a 
copy as the information was commercially  sensitive. 
Mr P told RSA he was experiencing health issues as a result of the mould  and that hed 
been advised by his GP to move  out. He said he was looking to RSA to pay for AA and that 
hed arranged to pay for an independent  report about the mould. And whilst  hed missed four 
appointments arranged by RSAs  contractor to remove the mould,  he said hed tried to 
arrange another but it couldnt  give him a specific time only a 5-hour time slot which  wasnt  
convenient. 
In mid-February 2019, RSA received  the full cost to replace the damaged flooring which it 
was confident was adequate enough  to restore the house to its pre-loss position. It declined  
to pay for the report Mr P had obtained about the mould  because  (by this point) its 
contractors had made 4 appointments to attend  to deal with it only for Mr P to cancel them  or 
for no-one  to be in when they attended. RSA said it remained of the same  view about AA  
that it shouldnt  have to pay for AA when every  attempt  had been  made  to clean the property 
and, the mould  it had attempted  to clean aside, it remained habitable. And it said its 
contractors had advised there would be no need for the family to vacate whilst the repairs 
were undertaken. 
In April 2019 Mr P complained to this service. He said he was unhappy about the delay in 
treating the mould; that his daughter and Mrs A had had to move out of the house in 
September 2018 and were still living away; that RSA still owed them £1,000  as a 
disturbance allowance and £120 for the report into the mould; that he was owed 2 nights 
hotel accommodation  having moved  out of the house on the advice of his GP because he 
was having trouble breathing; with the delays caused by the different loss adjusters and 
contractors appointed; that RSA hadnt  let him see the costed scope of works;  that he 
wanted a cash  settlement  based on one of the two quotes hed obtained not the £11,000 
offered by RSA; that all the downstairs furniture had to go into storage whilst the floor was 
laid and that RSAs contractor said the works  would take 6-8 weeks  and that RSA agreed  to 
provide AA whilst  the works were undertaken.
Ref: DRN86959913In June 2019, RSAs loss adjusters told Mr P they were cash settling the claim. Mr P told our 
investigator that RSAs  contractors had told him the bathroom floor tiling,  bath panel and 
toilet seat also needed replacing. And he said that RSA had promised him AA. A couple of 
weeks later Mr P told our investigator  hed had to spend two nights in a hotel again because  
he had breathing difficulties which he wanted RSA to pay for. He said there  was still mould  
present in the office.
Because much of Mr Ps complaint hadnt  formed part of the two complaints hed made to 
RSA in February 2019, our investigator  asked  RSA if it was willing  to allow  this service to 
consider the issues  hed raised since then. RSA said it wanted a chance to look at the issues  
first and that it would  issue a further final response  letter to address them.  It did this in 
August 2019.  
In response to the issues Mr P had raised  since February 2019, RSA said its cash  
settlement offer was based  on costings  provided by its own contractors whod fully scoped 
the repair. It said the quality of the floor, and the designer wallpaper Mr P had referred to, 
had been factored in and included in the £13,158.76 (inclusive  of VAT) itd offered him as 
settlement of the buildings  aspect of the claim in June. It also said that in February 2019 itd 
offered for the repairs to be done  by its own contractors but that Mr P had disputed the costs 
and wouldnt  allow the contractors to proceed. It said itd twice had the cost of replacing  the 
damaged floor assessed by different suppliers both of which  quoted similar figures.  So, it 
said it was satisfied the amount recommended to replace the floor on a like-for-like basis  
was reasonable.  It said the offer to indemnify Mr and Mrs A was in line with the policy terms. 
RSA said the scoped  works included an allowance for the cost of removing and reinstalling 
the radiators,  electrical switches and doors (a further  concern that Mr P had raised)  and an 
allowance for furniture removal (although furniture could be moved between rooms and 
stored). It said itd paid the settlement  amount to Mr and Mrs A but said if they would now 
prefer for RSAs contractors to undertake the repairs then it would do so, subject to them 
returning the cash settlement in full.  
RSA said there was no damage  to the bathroom documented by its loss adjuster nor had 
Mr P provided any evidence about the damage when asked about it by the loss adjuster in 
July 2019, so it wasnt prepared to include the bathroom as part of the claim.  
In respect of Mr Ps complaint about  the light fittings  in the office  it said it had always said it 
would cover the damaged one and, in the event a like-for-like replacement wasnt available it 
was willing  to pay 50% towards replacing  the un-damaged one. It said the damaged rug that 
had been claimed for had been included in the settlement but it wouldnt contribute towards 
paying for the undamaged  one as rugs werent  considered to be matching items. 
RSA said itd treated  the mould and that any mould  now present was unrelated  to the 
escape of water. It said its contractors had encapsulated the original mould and had reported 
it didnt present a health risk. It noted  Mr P had not taken any action himself  in mitigation. It 
said that its contractors  and suppliers had always maintained that the property remained 
habitable and any mould damage had been  confined to the office so it wasnt  unreasonable  
to expect family members  experiencing health issues to avoid the room. It said because  
there was no evidence linking the return of the mould to the original escape of water,  or that 
the familys health issues were related to it either, then it was not prepared to contribute  to 
the hotel costs Mr P had since incurred. 
Ref: DRN86959914Finally, RSA said it was cancelling the policy due to concerns about the accuracy  and 
presentation of the claim and lack of co-operation  from Mr P when requested. 
Mr P disputed RSAs findings. In particular he felt that the allowance for the floor wasnt on a 
like-for-like basis, that the contractors hadnt  included certain repairs in the scope like 
replacing the ceiling and that he couldnt  get the work done for the amount offered. He 
maintained that AA was necessary whilst  the repairs were done and that it had been RSAs 
contractors that had first raised the issue  of the bathroom damage. And he said the mould  
was still there, causing the family  health  issues and that it wasnt possible for the family to 
avoid the damaged rooms.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint. She thought the settlement offered by 
RSA was fair but that it should  pay 50% towards  replacing the undamaged rug and light;  that 
it should pay for AA for the whole family  whilst the repairs were undertaken (as promised by 
the loss adjuster in April 2019); that RSA should consider paying  a disturbance  allowance  for 
the duration of the repair and that it should  pay compensation of £150  for delays in dealing 
with the mould.  She also thought that RSA should reinstate the policy  as she was satisfied 
that Mr P had raised the issue  of the damaged bathroom tiles earlier  in the claim so wasnt  
being un-cooperative when the loss adjuster asked about this issue.  She felt the cancellation 
of the policy  had been unfair and for that RSA should pay Mr and Mrs A compensation of 
£200. And she thought that RSA should  reimburse Mr P the £120 he spent on obtaining the 
report about the mould. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigators  findings.  He repeated many of the points hed made  
previously and said hed referred his complaint  to this service so we could decide if the 
works scoped were  fair. Mr P said he wanted to know if the AA would be a hotel or a house.  
He said he preferred a house. And that he was still owed disturbance allowance payments of 
£1,000 and that the compensation awarded should  be increased to £1,500.  
RSA also disagreed with our investigators  findings.  It disagreed  it should  pay towards the 
undamaged rug. And it said it hadnt caused  a delay  in dealing with the mould.  In respect  of 
its decision to cancel  the policy it said this hadnt  been solely as a consequence  of Mr P 
expanding the claim to include  the bathroom  tiles but rather  because he had included 
elements of damage hed previously stated didnt  exist and, when asked to comment,  failed 
to co-operate. As the need to replace the bath panel  and toilet  seat were inconsistent with 
the type of claim  submitted, it didnt think itd unfairly  cancelled  the policy.
Mr P then sent in a report from a chartered  surveyor hed had inspect  the damage and 
consider the scope of works.  The report said the scope was a fair reflection of the work 
needed but that it would cost £28,000  to do and take 8 weeks. 
Our investigator considered what the parties had said but said none of it had caused her to 
change her mind about the outcome she was recommending.  
Mr P then said Mr and Mrs A now wanted  RSA to carry out the repairs because the cash  
settlement was insufficient  to allow them to do so. He said too he wanted confirmation about 
the type of AA to be offered. Our investigator  asked RSA if it was willing to agree to carry out 
the repairs, which it said it would  subject to the cash settlement being returned beforehand.  
In terms of the AA it said it was likely  to be a hotel as the duration it was needed  for was too 
short to justify a short-term six month let. RSA said itd considered the surveyors  report and 
noted itd concluded the scoped works were fair. It said the cost cited therein didnt warrant  
Ref: DRN86959915further consideration as it was now going  to complete the repair itself. And it said it 
commented extensively on the mould  growth previously. 
Mr P said a hotel wouldnt  be suitable.  He said that his parents would be willing  to return the 
£13,158.76 RSA had paid them minus certain  deductions (for the lights,  rugs, soft 
furnishings, compensation, the cost of the report, hotel expenses incurred etc.)  he said 
they would  be refunding  £1,851.76 to RSA.  
Our investigator considered everything again.  She said it was reasonable that the money  be 
returned to RSA in full without the deductions Mr P had stated. She said as the parties now 
agreed RSA would carry out the repairs there was no need for this particular issue to be 
considered by an ombudsman. She thought RSAs approach to AA was fair in the 
circumstances and the findings she reached  previously in relation to other issues  remained 
unchanged. 
Mr P said the best his parents  could do in terms of returning the cash settlement was to pay 
RSA £10,551.76. He said he still needed RSA to consider the cost of his parents board 
whilst staying with their daughter, groceries  and previous hotel stays. Mr P accepted our 
investigators view about matching  items  and that his parents reluctantly agreed to AA being 
in a hotel. And he said he wanted the ombudsman to consider the laundry  costs the family 
had incurred whilst they had been briefly  placed  in AA earlier in the claim along with their 
increased food bill for eating  out. He calculated  they were still owed £1,000 for these 
expenses. He repeated that the mould was a result of the water leak. 
In January 2020 Mr P contacted RSA directly and made repayment  of the cash settlement 
dependent on RSA meeting a number of conditions first. RSA told him it was unable to 
progress his claim without  first being fully reimbursed. And it said the matters of the 
bathroom damage and policy reinstatement  fell to be considered  by an ombudsman.  
RSA asked our investigator to refer the complaint for an ombudsmans decision.  
Mr P told RSA he didnt trust it to proceed with the repairs if the cash  settlement was 
returned so he said he was going to ask that an ombudsman consider all aspects of the 
complaint. Mr P listed seven issues he wanted  an ombudsman  to decide. 
Whilst the complaint  was waiting to be allocated to an ombudsman  Mr P and RSA 
corresponded further about the mould  and Mr P told our investigator in April 2020 that he 
intended to appoint his own contractor to look at it and provide  a report. 
In October  2020, Mr P notified  our investigator that hed just found another  water leak 
coming from the same place as before so he thought it was linked but that RSA wouldnt 
help him because the policy had been cancelled. Mr P also provided an invoice from a 
contractor whod come out in July 2020 to deal with the mould along with some photographs. 
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision in relation to it in 
November 2020.  I made  the following provisional findings and reached the following 
provisional decision:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN86959916Its not the role of this service to handle an insurance claim,  yet I can see to a certain  extent 
that is what we have ended up doing  here.  Its the role of this service   that now falls to me - 
to decide if RSA has treated Mr and Mrs A fairly in the way its handled  their claim for 
damage caused by an escape of water. 
For ease of reference I will use the same headings  here that the parties and this service 
have been using throughout the investigation  of this complaint.  I will also only be considering  
issues raised as a complaint and dealt with by RSA up to and including its third final 
response letter in August  2019. That means  the complaints Mr P raised recently about RSA 
considering the costs  associated with his parents board at his sisters house, groceries, bills 
for eating out and laundry  costs are all issues that he will need to raise  with RSA first should 
he so wish, as I cant  see its yet had the opportunity to consider these complaints. 
repairs/schedule of works/settlement
Escape of water claims can be some  of the most  stressful and protracted types of home 
insurance claims. From the evidence Ive seen  though, the damage caused by the escape of 
water to Mr and Mrs As home was at the lesser end of the severity spectrum. The loss 
adjuster that inspected  the damage a month after it was reported to have occurred, said that 
Mr P suggested the cause  of the problem  was the plumbing associated with the sink in the 
main bathroom which  had been  isolated  and repaired before  the visit. He also reported that 
Mr P was unable to state what had failed or what the cost of the repairs had been.
Crucially, the loss adjuster  a month after the leak  reported there was no damage to the 
bathroom itself.  
The damage to the home office  below  was reported by the loss adjuster as minor. From the 
photographs Ive seen I would have to agree.  He said one of the two light fittings  in the office 
had already been disposed of and that there  was about 2m2 of blistering to the wooden 
floor. He stated that Mr P had said the flooring had cost £18,000 but hed got it cheaper and 
that the entire downstairs  had been  laid as a complete job. 
Im not going  to say much  more here about the damage or the repairs  themselves. Thats  
because RSA has prepared a schedule of works the extent of which is agreed by an 
independent surveyor  appointed by Mr P to be a fair reflection of the work needed to 
reinstate the house. And Ive seen the evidence  of the damage caused  by the leak and 
considered it against the schedule. RSA has, I think, done the right thing by agreeing to 
allow for the replacement  of the whole of the downstairs wooden flooring  despite only 2m2 
being damaged,  the restoration (rather  than replacement) of which  was mooted at one point. 
But it has offered to replace it all and allowed for it on the schedule.
RSA, in line with the policy terms and conditions,  first offered to settle the claim in late 
November 2018  and again  in February  2019  by undertaking the necessary repairs or by 
paying Mr and Mrs A a cash settlement based on its own contractors rates.  That seems fair 
and reasonable to me. I can see though that Mr P has always  preferred a cash settlement, 
has continued to dispute the costs and wouldnt let the contractors proceed.  But I cant make  
RSA settle Mr and Mrs As claim based  on the estimates Mr P has obtained, or what  Mr Ps 
surveyor said it would cost, where RSA is willing to undertake the repairs itself.  Only if RSA 
declined to undertake a repair would  we expect it to cash settle based on quotes obtained by 
a policyholder. 
Ref: DRN86959917So, Im satisfied that RSA discharged its policy duty when settling Mr and Mrs As claim for 
damage to buildings. Having ultimately  said they would prefer a cash  settlement, RSA sent 
Mr and Mrs A a cheque in excess of £13,000. But a few months later, Mr P said that actually 
Mr and Mrs A now preferred RSA to do the work. 
When it cash settled the claim  by sending Mr and Mrs A a cheque, RSAs liability  under the 
policy was completely discharged. Insofar  as Mr P may have been unhappy with how the 
claim had been  handled  or the settlement offered he was entitled to raise  that as a complaint 
to this service. And if we thought  RSA needed to do more then we would make  an 
appropriate award.  
RSA was under no obligation  having cash settled  and ended its liability   to agree months 
later to this services mediated  request on behalf  of Mr and Mrs A that it undertake  the 
repairs. But I can see that it did agree to do so providing Mr and Mrs A returned the cash  
settlement in full. This was an entirely  reasonable request  otherwise RSA would be 
indemnifying Mr and Mrs A twice for the same claim. 
Mr P should  be aware that, as things currently stand, unless the settlement is returned  in full, 
RSA has no further  liability  for Mr and Mrs As claim.  That means it need do nothing  more 
and I include engaging contractors so a start date for the repair  can be given, or providing  
temporary accommodation or agreeing  allowances  for laundry, parking and food (all 
requests he has made the return of the cash settlement contingent upon).  The return  of the 
cash settlement isnt a conditional one though; if Mr and Mrs A want  RSA to undertake the 
repairs the money must be unconditionally returned  in full. 
Mr P says RSA has been deliberately difficult about  the claim but Ive seen  no such  
evidence. Mr P says that once the money  is returned to RSA then it would delay everything.  
There is no evidence that it would. 
So, Mr and Mrs A now have a choice. They can keep the cash settlement (and RSAs  
involvement in, and liability for, the claim is at an end) or they can return it in full and allow 
RSA to conduct the repair to their home. But RSA has treated them fairly and reasonably  as 
regards the way its assessed  the damage, scoped  the repairs  and offered to settle the 
claim. I cant  fairly make it do anymore. 
alternative accommodation
Insurers will typically house their policyholders in AA when their homes are without essential 
washing and cooking facilities.  At all times I can see Mr and Mrs A retained the essential 
services at their home. The damage  was confined to one room only and was easily  
avoidable by the family  when they went about  their day to day tasks.  I can see that RSA 
agreed at one point  to place the family briefly in AA because of health  concerns raised  but 
once its contractors reconfirmed the house remained habitable it declined to offer it for any 
longer. From  the evidence Ive seen I dont  think that was unreasonable. 
RSA agreed that when  its contractors carry out the repairs it will move the family into AA for 
their duration. That seems  reasonable to me. Of course, if Mr and Mrs A dont return the 
cash settlement in full then RSA wont be carrying out the repairs,  its liability  under the policy 
will have ceased, and it wont  be liable for placing the family in AA.
Should the cash settlement be returned  in full and the repairs undertaken by RSA, then I 
think that given  the repairs  are due to last 5-6 weeks and short term lets of houses  are 
Ref: DRN86959918generally for a minimum of six months, placing the family in a hotel  is fair and reasonable. I 
note that Mr P has latterly  agreed  that AA can be a hotel. I think RSA has addressed the 
issue of AA reasonably  and I cant reasonably  require it to do anymore. 
disturbance allowance
A disturbance allowance is typically paid by insurers to their policyholders (and their family 
members) where  they are without essential washing and/or cooking facilities.  It is paid to 
reflect the additional costs - above  and beyond a familys normal  weekly  expenditure - 
caused by the inconvenience of a claim. This service considers a payment of £10 per adult 
per day and £5 per child per day to be a reasonable starting point. But if a policyholder  can 
demonstrate the additional expenditure they are incurring as a result of being without 
essential services is greater than (when compared  alongside their usual costs)  that then this 
service would expect  an insurer to take it into account. Ive not seen any evidence of such. 
The family were without essential cooking  facilities whilst they were in the hotel at the start of 
2019. RSA paid them a disturbance allowance of £60 a day (£10 per person) whilst they 
were there to cover the additional  costs  they incurred above  and beyond  their normal weekly 
expenditure. That seems  reasonable to me. At all other times  the family home remained 
habitable and the family  werent  without  essential  facilities so I dont think  I can reasonably 
make RSA pay Mr and Mrs A anymore by way of a disturbance  allowance.  I know  Mr P says 
RSA owes him a further £1,000 but the evidence  Ive seen shows  that RSA has paid the 
family all it owes  them  for the duration  of their hotel stay. Mr P hasnt said why or how he 
feels such a sum is owed to him or provided  any evidence in support of his request.
There has been some mention during  this services involvement about making RSA pay a 
disturbance allowance  to cover  food, parking, laundry etc.- whilst the family is in AA during 
the repairs. But that can only be considered if and when RSA places the family  in AA 
(bearing in mind what Ive said above). 
matching sets
This relates  to the 2 ceiling  lights in the office  and the two rugs.  One of each was damaged  
and disposed of before the loss adjuster first visited. RSA has said it will pay for both the 
damaged light and the damaged rug. Its also said itll pay 50% towards the cost of replacing  
the undamaged  light should  it be evidenced a match is not possible. This is in line with this 
services approach to matching sets.  RSAs said rugs dont form part of a matching set or 
suite so it wont contribute  anything to the undamaged  rug. 
Mr P says the rugs were bought together, were the same and were in the same  room. Its 
reasonable to say in such circumstances that theres been a loss of match.  But the damaged 
rug itself has been disposed of and RSA has been  unable to inspect it. But providing  Mr P 
can show Mr and Mrs A did own a second rug, then I think its fair that RSA should  pay 50% 
towards the cost of replacing the undamaged  one. 
 
mould/medical issues
Mr P says that the mould  in the office caused  by the leak has affected the health of most of 
the members of his family. He says RSA are at fault for not dealing  with the mould and for 
causing the health issues. He says at times his breathing has been affected and hes 
needed to check  himself into a hotel to get away. He wants  RSA to reimburse him for the 
hotel bills hes incurred. He has submitted some medical  evidence  for us to consider and 
Ref: DRN86959919says that RSA should pay him compensation of £1,000  for the delays in RSA dealing with 
the mould and affecting the familys health.  
Ive reviewed the medical evidence provided  and am afraid I cant see that the breathing  
problems reported  for the family  members  are a direct result of the mould present as a result 
of the leak. I would need to see such evidence, and then find that RSAs actions had directly 
caused the problem, in order to hold it responsible for the health issues  reported.  
I can see that the mould was first mentioned to RSA by Mr P at the end of November 2018 in 
an email that principally dealt with chasing information about  what the repairs  would cost and 
stating that Mr and Mrs A had waited  long enough  for the claim to be settled. Mr P 
mentioned that the mould was growing worse with the delay. He said he wanted the claim 
progressed asap. RSA made its first offer of settlement about a week  later (to cash  settle 
based on its own rates or to carry out the repairs).  
I set out in my background section above  the investigations RSA undertook at the outset of 
the claim prior to accepting it was valid and I dont think those investigations  were  
unreasonable in the circumstances. RSA was entitled  to conduct them so I dont think  there 
was any unreasonable delay between  the loss adjuster visiting  in mid-October and liability 
being accepted and the first offer of settlement  being made  in early December 2018. Mr P 
intimated a cash settlement was what Mr and Mrs A would prefer and I understand  an 
allowance for dealing with the mould was included. So, I dont think it was unreasonable  that 
RSA hadnt been out to deal with the mould  prior to the beginning of December. 
A few days  after RSAs first offer Mr P disputed the costs that RSA had provided and went  
off to get some more  quotes of his own. It was on presentation of these in early January  
2019 that RSA appointed another supplier to double check its own figures  in light of those  
put forward by Mr P. So, the focus  of the claim after the end of November was on the cost of 
repair and the schedule of works. The next mention of mould came in an email on 
12 February in which  RSA confirmed that a specialist had been  appointed to attend to deal 
with it. 
From the file I can see that the specialist had offered  an appointment that Mr P declined  on 
21 January, one on 28 January that he cancelled  and two in early February where no-one 
was home.  
Whilst I can see that there was a two-month gap between the only occasion Mr P mentioned  
the mould and the specialist arranging to attend, I dont think  its fair for me to make  RSA 
pay Mr and Mrs A compensation in respect of that delay. Mr P indicated he was looking to 
cash settle the claim but not for the amount RSA had offered  hence him obtaining  further 
quotes to send to RSA.  I can see no further  mention of the mould  between  the end of 
November and the specialist attempting to attend  in January. If it had been a matter  of 
importance to Mr P then I think he wouldve made every attempt to raise it again and to 
make himself available  to allow the contractors access. I know hes said the 4-5-hour time 
slots given werent specific enough  but I think its reasonable to expect that he couldve 
made an attempt  to make sure someone  was available to give the contractor access.  Its not 
unusual for contractors to give time slots for appointments. 
RSAs contractor attended to encapsulate the mould in February and reported to RSA that it 
presented no risk to health. The specialist also stated that Mr P said he was topping  up the 
heating system every  month or so and that the external water meter continued to turn slowly 
Ref: DRN869599110with all the appliances and taps switched off. The technician thought this suggested another  
issue. 
Even after the mould was dealt with, Mr P continued to report  there  was mould at the house 
and that it was causing health issues. But Ive seen no evidence  linking the return  of the 
mould to the original  escape of water, or that the familys health  issues  were  related to it 
either. The report Mr P commissioned into the mould contained  no explanation as to how the 
mould came to be there.  And I cant ignore that the specialist noted  the water  meter 
continued to turn even with all the taps and appliances off which  indicates that there could 
be a leak elsewhere  in the property.  
  
Mr and Mrs A have  a duty to mitigate  damage  to their home. RSA dealt with the mould that 
was caused by the leak. So, its reasonable to think  particularly in light of what the 
specialist said  that any new mould  is from another  source which Mr and Mrs A have a duty 
to address but which could, in respect  of the resultant damage, be a new claim. As Ive said, 
theres no evidence  Ive seen linking the ongoing  presence of any mould to this claim. That 
means I cant reasonably  require RSA to contribute to any of the hotel costs Mr P incurred or 
make RSA do any more in respect of the mould itself. In any event, I note that Mr and Mrs A 
have recently had the mould dealt with.
report about mould
Mr P emailed RSA on 13 February 2019 to say he and his parents had been  very patient 
with regards to waiting for RSA to sort out the damp/mould.  He said hed booked  a company 
to come out the following  day to do a full report and provide an estimate. He said the cost 
was £120. RSA responded to Mr Ps email the following day to say it was unable to cover 
the cost of the report as its own contractors had been appointed so the report was 
un-necessary. In the same email  RSA listed out the 4 attempts the contractor  had made (as 
detailed above) to attend and deal with the mould.  It said it felt every attempt had been made 
to try and visit and deal with the mould.  So, it said it wasnt prepared  to pay for the report.
I appreciate that Mr P says he was a full-time  carer for his daughter  and that he had work  
commitments. He says the four-hour time slots he was given  werent appropriate in his 
circumstances. I have  to decide  if RSA treated him fairly and reasonably when arranging to 
deal with the mould and, if not, whether it then needs to pay for the report. 
Mr P has said he was unable to arrange to be home  for some of the appointments because 
had to collect and deliver his daughter to school. Separately he has also said she is being 
home-schooled. And whilst I note that Mr P reports that his mother  and daughter had to 
move out of the home  and into his sisters home from the date of the claim onwards 
(meaning no-one other than him remained at the property) this seems,  from the evidence 
Ive seen, to be more from choice than necessity.  And even if it was the latter,  I think they 
could reasonably have arranged to be there  for a short  time to make sure someone was 
there to let RSAs contractor in. 
So, its unclear  from the evidence  why Mr P couldnt arrange  for one of his parents or 
someone else to wait in for RSAs contractor for the few hours  on one the days  the 
appointments had been  arranged for or why he couldnt be there  himself.  I think RSA did all 
it reasonably could from the middle of January onwards  to attend to deal with the mould. 
Whilst Mr P is fully entitled to arrange for his own contractor to inspect the mould I dont 
think, in these circumstances, that I can reasonably make RSA pay for the cost of the report 
Ref: DRN869599111produced. Not in any event when RSAs own contractors had been  trying to attend to 
address the issue.  
Unfortunately, theres an element of inconvenience  attached to all insurance claims  
including having  to wait in to facilitate access to the property.  Its not the fault of RSA that 
Mr P was unavailable  for the four appointments. I think it did all it reasonably  could and I 
cant fairly make it pay for the report when it wasnt necessary  for the progression  of the 
claim. 
policy cancellation
RSA told Mr and Mrs A in its third final response  letter that their policy was cancelled.  Since  
this point they have been unable to obtain insurance  elsewhere.  It said it was cancelling it 
due to concerns  about the accuracy and presentation of the claim and lack of co-operation   
specifically in relation to the alleged damage to the bathroom. Mr P said he didnt respond to 
the loss adjusters questions about the bathroom damage because  RSA had previously told 
him it wouldnt correspond  with him whilst  his complaint was with this service. 
I can see from the file that Mr P first raised the issue of damage to the bathroom tiles in an 
email to the loss adjuster in February 2019. He said: I was advised  by [the mould  specialist], 
after having  looked at the bathroom that the tiles are damaged  and that I should make a 
claim on the tiles. I note that your loss assessors  who attended the property on numerous 
occasions have  not told me to make a claim for the floor tiles. I would therefore like to add 
the floor tiles in the bathroom to my claim. The loss adjuster responded to say he was 
obtaining further details from the mould specialist about its comments about the bathroom 
tiles. 
But around June  2019, about the time the loss adjuster had said it was going to release the 
settlement cheque, it seems Mr P told RSA thered  been damage caused  to the sink, bath 
panel, toilet seat and light switch by the escape  of water. Ive seen no evidence   contrary to 
what Mr P told our investigator  that RSAs mould  specialist said that these items had been 
damaged. RSA asked  Mr P about the new damage  and no answer was forthcoming. Mr P 
has said that was because the complaint was with this service  but I can see that, despite  it 
being so, he contacted the loss adjuster once in June 2019 and twice  in July 2019  to discuss  
other elements of his claim. So, Im not persuaded he was unable to discuss  the bathroom 
damage with RSA/the loss adjuster when asked  to do so. 
RSA accepts that the issue of damage to the bathroom floor tiles was raised by Mr P in late 
February 2019. But it says the additional  damage  he later added  to the claim  which both 
he and RSAs surveyors/loss  adjusters  had stated previously didnt exist  was inconsistent  
with the type of claim hed submitted. On challenging  Mr P to explain why he thought  the 
damage should form part of the claim Mr P didnt reply. 
RSA says Mr Ps refusal do so was in breach of the policy terms, one of which  was to 
provide co-operation. It was on this ground  it cancelled the policy.  Whilst Mr Ps lack of co-
operation was indeed in breach of a policy condition, Im not persuaded cancelling  the policy 
without first warning Mr P that it would do so if he didnt co-operate  was fair and reasonable. 
It would perhaps have been  fairer  to decline to consider  the recently added bathroom  
damage until an explanation as to how its occurred had been  provided. 
So, I think RSA should reinstate the policy subject to Mr and Mrs A first returning  to it any 
premium it refunded/was  due for the remainder of the policy year (I dont know  if 
Ref: DRN869599112Mr and Mrs A paid an annual premium or monthly  by direct debit). I would like to be clear 
that without any balance of premium owed being  re-paid, the policy will not be reinstated. It 
will also have  to remove the record of cancellation  from its own and any industry database. If 
Mr and Mrs A dont  return the premium then RSA should at least amend the cancellation 
record accordingly. 
RSA should also consider  the bathroom  damage  Mr P has claimed for against the policy  
terms. Mr P should be aware  that that doesnt mean RSA must accept the damage hes 
claimed for, only that it need consider whether it is liable for it under the policy terms. 
I think that Mr and Mrs A have been  caused some trouble  and upset by the cancellation of 
their policy and the fact they have been  unable to get insurance elsewhere  because of it. For 
this I think RSA should pay Mr and Mrs A compensation  of £200. When  I consider  how much 
compensation to award I take into account  this services general approach to such  awards 
and, having done so, Im satisfied that this amount is in line with awards we have made in 
similar circumstances. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to require Royal  
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do the following: 
Pay 50% towards the cost of the undamaged  light fitting;
Subject to Mr and Mrs A providing proof they owned a second rug which  was the same  
as the one which remains, pay 50% towards the cost of replacing  the undamaged  one;
Subject to Mr and Mrs A repaying any refunded premium for the policy year in question,  
or paying the remaining  outstanding  premium if they were  paying by direct  debit, 
reinstate the policy for the rest of the policy year;
Remove any record of cancellation from its own and any industry database.  But if the 
premium is not returned and the policy not reinstated, amend the record of the 
cancellation to reflect the policy as being  cancelled by Mr and Mrs A;
Consider the claim for damage to the bathroom  against the policy terms and conditions;
Pay Mr and Mrs A compensation of £200  for the distress and inconvenience the 
cancellation of their policy caused  them.
Both parties  disagreed with aspects of my provisional decision. RSA said it still disagreed  
that it should pay 50% towards the undamaged  rug because  there  was no cover under  the 
policy for matching  items nor was there  any known loss of match  such that the value of one 
rug was affected by the loss of the other. It said the rugs werent  part of a pair.
In respect of my provisional finding about the policy  cancellation, RSA said Id clearly  agreed 
that Mr P hadnt adequately accounted  for failing to respond to its enquiries about why the 
additional bathroom damage  hed reported  should  form part of the claim.  And it said Id also 
agreed that he was in breach of the policy condition to co-operate with the claim. RSA 
referred to 3 emails itd sent Mr P prior to cancelling the policy,  asking him to explain why the 
additional bathroom damage  should  form part of the claim and which, it said,  demonstrated 
that itd given Mr P sufficient time to reply to its challenge and which  warned him about  the 
consequences of failing  to do so and of committing fraud. So, RSA said it had correctly 
cancelled the policy. It also said that, as this was the case  it shouldnt have to pay the £200 
compensation Id awarded provisionally. 
Ref: DRN869599113Mr P replied  to say there  were two new leaks at the house, one of which he was sure was 
connected to the 2018  leak.  As I had only recommended  the policy  be reinstated  for the 
remainder of the policy year (up to August 2020) he wanted to know  what would happen 
about these leaks  as his parents had been  unable to get insurance elsewhere.  Mr P said he 
didnt think it was fair that his parents policy was only reinstated  for the policy  year in which 
it was cancelled. Mr P sent in an independent report into the two new leaks and pictures of 
mould and rot above the ceiling. 
Mr P reiterated a lot of the points hed already  made prior to my issuing my provisional 
decision. Insofar as he made any new points he said:
RSAs loss adjusters  never investigated  where the leak came  from;
His own contractors have said the plasterboard  in the study needs to come down to 
assess the true damage that occurred.  RSA have made no allowance for this in its 
schedule of works;
Mr and Mrs A only asked for a cash settlement when their quotes differed so greatly  
from RSAs;
I said RSA first offered  to settle the claim in November 2018 and again in February  
2019 yet it only sent the cheque in the summer  of 2019;
Mr and Mrs A have  decided to carry out the repairs themselves so they wouldnt be 
returning the cash settlement;
Mr and Mrs A want clarification about what RSA intends to do with regard to AA 
whilst the repairs are carried  out. And his daughters home-schooling tutor will need 
to be accommodated  within  these arrangements. Both need  to be sorted out before 
his parents accept  the cash settlement;
He wants me to consider potential delays caused by Covid-19;
He wanted  to me to reconsider his claim for an increase to the disturbance  allowance  
whilst the family  was briefly in AA. Mr P pointed  out that hed provided receipts. He 
said no laundry  facilities  were  available at the hotel  so how was the family  meant  to 
wash their clothes.  And the family  had specific  dietary  requirements  that increased  
their food costs. Thus, it is clear RSA owe him a further £1,000;
Regarding the matching rug, hed sent RSA a video of the damage  at the start of the 
claim (a copy  of which hed also sent our investigator) which clearly showed the two 
rugs before  the damaged one was thrown  away;
Regarding the mould, Mr P said the independent report  hed had carried  out 
recommended that the plasterboard be removed so that the brick could be exposed 
and the extent of the damage seen;
He said RSAs contractor did come out to try and locate a second leak but had put it 
down to a faulty isolation  valve in the expansion vessel  which it said was his 
responsibility to repair;
Had RSA taken  his independent report into account and taken down the ceiling  then 
it wouldve seen the poorly fitted overflow pipes  from the hot water  cylinder  and have 
stopped the further  leaks  from occurring and further mould from growing; 
So, Mr P says there is a direct  link between  the 2018 leak and the two new 2020 
leaks which he says occurred as a result of RSAs  failure to take his independent  
report into account and take down the ceiling and plasterboard to fully expose the 
damage;
I need to consider the health  issues experienced by his family in light of this evidence 
and award appropriate  compensation;
Ref: DRN869599114Regarding the cancellation he said he saw no reason to co-operate with RSAs 
enquiries because  the complaint was with this service and RSA has already told him 
it wouldnt answer his questions in light of that;
He couldnt  understand  why RSA would renew the policy  if it hadnt received  a reply 
to its three emails only to cancel it two weeks later;
I should increase  my compensation award for all associated  costs and stress.
 
Having considered the parties responses to my provisional decision, I asked our investigator 
to write to them setting  out my current thoughts about the policy cancellation  issue and 
giving both a short time to respond  prior to issuing this, my final decision. Our investigator 
put the following to RSA and Mr P: 
 
With regard to the cancellation of Mr and Mrs As policy in August 2019,  the ombudsman  
found provisionally that Mr P hadnt  adequately accounted for failing to respond to RSAs  
enquiries about why the additional  bathroom  damage hed reported should form part of the 
claim. And she also thought that Mr P was in breach of the policy condition to co-operate  
with the claim. However, notwithstanding  either of these facts,  the ombudsman  provisionally 
thought that RSAs decision to cancel the policy without first warning Mr P of the 
consequences of his failure to co-operate wasnt fair or reasonable. Consequently,  the 
ombudsman thought RSA should  reinstate  the policy (subject to Mr and Mrs A returning  the 
policy premiums)  and consider the claim for the bathroom damage, remove any record of the 
cancellation from its own or any industry  databases  and pay Mr and Mrs A compensation of 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience  the cancellation had caused them.
In response to these  provisional findings,  RSA referred to 3 emails itd sent Mr P shortly  
before communicating its decision to cancel the policy (the ombudsman understands that a 
copy of RSAs response has been  forward  to Mr P). The emails  invited Mr P to explain why 
the additional bathroom damage should  form part of the claim and warned him about the 
consequences of failing  to do so. RSA also drew Mr Ps attention  to the fraud  condition  
within the policy terms. RSA said in response  to the provisional decision that the emails 
showed that it had given  Mr P sufficient opportunity to reply  to its enquiries and also that itd 
warned him about the potential consequences of failing to do, which included committing 
fraud by virtue of exaggerating the claim.  
Having considered what RSA has said the ombudsman  is minded to find that RSAs  decision 
to cancel Mr and Mrs As policy was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. Her 
provisional decision to require RSA to reinstate the policy was solely based solely  the fact 
RSA had failed  to give Mr P the opportunity to reply or to warn  him about the potential 
consequences of failing  to co-operate. On review of RSAs response to her provisional 
decision however,  the ombudsman  is now satisfied  that it did give Mr P sufficient opportunity 
to reply to its enquiries and that it did warn him  before  cancelling the policy   about  the 
consequences should he fail to do so. In light of the emails RSA has drawn to her attention, 
the ombudsman  is of the view that she cant fairly  or reasonably  require RSA to reinstate the 
policy and consider the claim for the bathroom  damage or pay Mr and Mrs A compensation 
of £200. It follows  to that the ombudsman will not be asking RSA to remove the cancellation 
record form any internal or external databases. 
In reaching this view,  the ombudsman has also had regard to the comments made about this 
issue by Mr P in response to her provisional decision,  however,  the comments  made merely 
repeat what Mr P has said previously and which were already considered by her in her 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN869599115Mr P replied  to our investigator and said he wasnt happy about  the change  to my findings 
about RSAs cancellation of the policy. He said he thought Id already  considered  the three 
emails in my provisional decision and he wanted  to know  why I hadnt asked RSA why it took 
it months after he first raised  the additional bathroom damage in February  2019  to ask him 
further questions  about it in June  2019. Mr P also said he didnt know  he had to answer 
RSAs questions because  his complaint by then was with this service. And he said that the 
bathroom damage was only about  £85 so he wasnt even bothered  about  it. He only raised  it 
because he was told by the loss adjuster he could. 
Mr P also said it was a coincidence  Id changed  my mind about the policy  cancellation since 
hed mentioned the two new leaks. He questioned whether all his emails had been 
considered by me. 
Mr P also set out again the chronology of events regarding his reporting of the bathroom  
damage, the three emails  he received  from RSA,  the annual renewal of his parents policy 
and its subsequent cancelation. He said he did reply to the first email (dated 13 June 2019).
Mr P also made some additional points about  the actions of the loss adjuster to whom he 
reported the bathroom damage in February  2019 including the fact he never received a 
promised update. Mr P said the next contact  from RSA about the bathroom was on 13 June 
2019 by which time his complaint was with this service. He said our investigator  never  told 
him he was duty bound to respond to RSAs enquiries. He said when he sent RSA hotel 
receipts he wanted to claim for in July 2019 RSA told him itd added  them  to the file and that 
it awaited our decision. Hence  after 13 June  he didnt feel bound to respond.  
Mr P again  queried  why RSA renewed  the policy if he hadnt been  responding to its 
enquiries. And he said the 3 emails RSA had referred to had always  been on the file so he 
couldnt understand why they had only just come to my attention.  
Finally, Mr P said he wanted RSA to release  its surveyors reports to clarify the position 
regarding the bathroom. 
RSA replied to our investigator and said it had no further comments  to make on the issue. 
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
cancellation
The 3 emails RSA sent Mr P asking him about  the bathroom  damage were dated 20 June, 1 
July and 30 July. The first drew Mr Ps attention  to the fact his signed witness statement from 
November 2018  made no reference  to any bathroom damage which contrasted with Mr Ps 
later attempt to expand the claim to include such damage. RSA referred to the policys fraud  
condition which said where fraud  is detected, including exaggeration, the policy may be 
rendered invalid and it may take action. In the email RSA said it was reserving its rights 
under the policy  and in law and was placing the claim on hold until Mr P answered its 
questions. A second email about  10 days later reiterated the same point and a third stated 
Ref: DRN869599116that, in the absence of a response, it had referred the matter to underwriters.  The third FRL 
followed shortly after in which the policy was cancelled. 
Ive thought about what Mr P has said in response to our investigators recent email 
explaining that I was minded to find that RSAs decision to cancel Mr and Mrs As policy  
wasnt unreasonable but its not persuaded me that I was wrong  to do so. Whilst Mr P may 
have replied to an email sent by RSA dated  13 June, this email  wasnt  one of the three 
referred to by RSA.  In the email  of 13 June RSA told Mr P that there were no works scoped 
for the bathroom  so it asked him how the toilet seat, bath panel and tiles were damaged  (by 
the water  leak). Mr P didnt say how the damage he was claiming for had come about saying 
only that RSAs  contractors advised what needed replacing and why. 
It was after this response that RSA reviewed its file and spoke to the contractors concerned  
neither of which had any recollection of any damage  to the bathroom  as set out in its email  
to Mr P on 20 June. 
I have to decide if RSA fairly cancelled Mr and Mrs As policy  in light of Mr Ps failure to 
respond to its enquiries, spread over 3 emails, about how the bathroom  damage occurred 
and why it should form part of the claim.  And the gap between Mr Ps first mentioning  it to 
the loss adjuster in February  2019  and RSA next asking him about on 13 June doesnt alter 
my view that it did. The fact remains that RSA asked Mr P about  the damage  on three 
occasions - giving him the opportunity to respond - and he failed to reply, breaching  the 
policy condition to co-operate. I set out provisionally  why I thought  he should have done so, 
despite his complaint being with this service, and nothing Mr P has said since has caused  
me to change my mind. Its not the role of our investigator to make sure that Mr P 
corresponded with RSA about the claim. 
I would like to reassure  Mr P that theres  no coincidence or connection between him 
mentioning the two new leaks and my changing my mind about  the policy cancellation issue. 
I have indeed considered all his emails. I note the copies of the ones he recently  sent our 
investigator all of which are on our file and have been considered  by me previously. 
If Mr P is unhappy that the loss adjuster failed to update him as promised, he should  raise 
this with RSA in the first instance.  Similarly, he should contact RSA directly  if he wants  it to 
release its surveyor/contractor  reports.  These reports are business sensitive and confidential 
and typically arent  disclosed by insurers and I understand RSA has previously declined to 
share them with Mr P.
In RSAs third email dated 30 July it said itd referred the matter to underwriters  to consider. 
Policy renewals are usually put in place a couple of weeks before the renewal date. Its not 
unreasonable to think  that the referral  to underwriters came  too late to halt the renewal. 
matching sets
RSAs comments in response to my provisional decision were a repeat of the points itd 
made on this issue prior to my making my provisional findings. Given  the absence of any 
new evidence or arguments,  Ive not been persuaded that I should  alter what I said 
provisionally about this issue. 
Whilst I appreciate theres no matching sets cover under the policy,  Mr P says the rugs were 
bought together, were the same and were  in the same room.  In such  circumstances, its 
reasonable to say theres been  a loss of match. RSA is aware  of this services approach in 
Ref: DRN869599117such situations. Where it can be shown that theres  been a loss of match  (and I think its fair 
to say that two identical  rugs can be said to match)  we say its fair for the insurer  to pay 
50% towards  the cost of replacing the undamaged items. Mr P has sent us a video taken 
around the time the damage occurred and, having viewed it, I can see there are two 
matching rugs in the room. Thus, Mr P has shown his parents owned a second rug so I think 
RSA should contribute 50% towards  the cost of the undamaged rug. 
two new leaks
As Mr and Mrs As policy was cancelled in August  2019, RSA wasnt on risk when the new 
leaks were discovered. Consequently, theres no cover in place for them. Ive thought about 
Mr Ps comments that one of the two new leaks was actually a continuation of the first leak 
but Ive seen no evidence that it was. 
The report  Mr P sent in from the heating engineer he had come out to take a look in 
December 2020  reports a potential problem with the hot water  cylinder  above  the lounge  
ceiling. The leak reported by Mr P to RSA in September 2018 was from a sink in the 
bathroom above the study. So, I cant say the new report demonstrates in any way that 
either of these two new leaks  is connected to the leak thats  the subject of the 2018 claim.  
That means I dont  think  RSA needs  to consider either of them  as theres  no cover in place. 
And its worth noting again that, on visiting in October 2018,  RSAs loss adjuster considered 
the damage to be minor and that no assisted drying  was necessary. 
repairs/schedule of works/settlement
As I said provisionally, RSAs liability of this claim ceased when it settled it by paying 
Mr and Mrs A cash. RSA has agreed, following mediation by this service,  to undertake the 
repairs if Mr and Mrs A so wish providing  they return the cash settlement. 
Between my provisional decision and this, my final decision, there has been some 
discussion about the actual amount that would need to be returned before the repairs  would 
be arranged. Im pleased  to say a figure  of £10,973.76 has now been agreed.  For the 
avoidance of any subsequent dispute, Ill just explain how that was reached.   
RSA paid Mr and Mrs A £13,158.76 in full and final settlement  of their claim. This figure 
included an element for damaged contents, namely £1,915 (comprised of £200  for storage, 
£1435 for the desk and sideboard, £220  for the rug and £60 for the chair) with the balance 
being £11,243.76 for the buildings damage  (excluding VAT but including  an amount  for the 
light fitting of £270).  Clearly Mr and Mrs A dont  need  to return the contents element of the 
settlement to RSA,  nor do they need  to return the amount of the light fitting. On deducting 
these from the overall amount a figure of £10,973.76 is reached. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr P said that Mr and Mrs A no longer want  RSA to 
carry out the repairs so they wouldnt be returning the money  to RSA. 
Mr Ps independent expert agreed  that RSAs schedule of works encompassed everything  
that needed to be done. And the cash settlement was based on the agreed schedule. Mr P 
now says he has a contractor that says the plasterboard in the study needs to be removed to 
assess the true nature  of the damage  but that this isnt included in the schedule  of works. 
And his expert says that had RSA taken down the ceiling  then it wouldve seen the poorly 
Ref: DRN869599118fitted overflow pipes  from the hot water  cylinder and have  stopped  the further leaks from 
occurring and further mould from growing.  
Ive not seen any evidence that this is damage caused  by the first leak in September 2018 
such that RSA should  be considering it as part of the original claim. But if Mr P has any clear  
evidence that the removal of the plasterboard  and ceiling is required because  they were  
damaged in the leak in 2018 then he should  show that to RSA in the first instance  so it can 
assess it. 
Mr P says RSAs loss adjuster didnt investigate where the original leak came from. Ive read 
the loss adjusters report. He says he asked Mr P where he thought the leak was and he 
suggested that it had come  from the sink in the bathroom but that Mr P was unable to 
explain what  had failed  nor was he able to tell the loss adjuster how much the repair had 
cost him (which had been done  by the time the loss adjuster visited). I can see from the 
report that the loss adjuster inspected the bathroom and found no damage. 
As there was no evidence  of an ongoing leak, and as Mr P had said hed had the leak fixed  I 
dont think the loss adjuster reasonably needed to investigate any further. 
I set out in some detail  provisionally the sequence  of events surrounding the offers to repair 
or cash settle the claim.  I see no value in revisiting  those events here. I agree that RSA first 
made a cash offer in November 2018  and paid the settlement to Mr and Mrs A in the 
summer of 2019.
alternative accommodation
Since my provisional decision was issued, Mr and Mrs A have decided  to keep the cash 
settlement; there has also been some communication through our investigator about the 
provision off AA as a result of that decision. It has since been agreed  between  RSA and 
Mr P that RSA will pay the reasonable costs of either a hotel or B&B for the time the family 
are out of the home  as a result of their own contractors carrying out the repairs.  Alternatively, 
RSA has said that if the family chooses  to reside  with friends  and family  it will consider 
paying a disturbance allowance. 
If the family moves out into AA it should let RSA know what  type of accommodation and how 
much it is going to cost.  Mr P has also said his daughters tutor will be attending on week  
days. Mr P should send  any receipts for AA to RSA for consideration. How much  this is likely 
to cost is currently an unknown and I cant make RSA pay up front for an unknown amount. 
But I think RSAs offer is a reasonable one and I cant  fairly make it do any more.
disturbance allowance
Mr P has repeated that RSA still owes Mr and Mrs A £1,000  for expenses incurred (including 
laundry) when the family was briefly in AA at the start of 2019. Its not clear to me, when at 
all times the home retained its essential  facilities why Mr P says RSA should be made to pay 
for the familys laundry when that could be done  at home. In any event, Mr P hasnt 
produced any new evidence to support why RSA should  pay him this amount. I already 
considered the evidence  on this issue prior to issuing  my provisional  decision. So, whilst  Ive 
noted what Mr P has said in response, he merely repeats points hes previously  made and 
which have already been considered by me. 
Ref: DRN869599119miscellaneous
Im unable to consider  here any future delays that may be caused by Covid-19. Thats  
because RSA has settled  this claim and its liability is at an end. And having  looked at the 
claim, Im satisfied that there  werent any delays to it caused by Covid-19 within the timeline  
that Ive had to consider as part of this complaint. And as RSA has settled the claim and its 
liability is at an end it isnt responsible for the future  progression of the reinstatement works. 
As Im unable to comment on potential  future  issues there is nothing  more I can reasonably 
add here.  So, Mr Ps comment in respect  of this issue hasnt caused me to change  my 
decision on this complaint. 
I considered the familys health issues in my provisional decision. Mr P has submitted no 
new evidence since so there is nothing new for me to comment  on or consider. 
I provisionally concluded that RSA should  pay Mr and Mrs A compensation of £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to them by the unfair cancellation  of their policy. As I 
have now decided that RSA didnt unreasonably cancel the policy  in the circumstances it 
follows that I cant fairly require it to pay any compensation.
All insurance  claims attract a certain level of inconvenience. Thats to be expected.  And 
where an insurer through its words or deeds makes an already difficult  situation  worse then 
this service can make it to pay compensation to a consumer. But here,  I dont think that RSA 
has provided poor customer service or caused un-necessary delays such  that I can 
reasonably require it to pay any compensation to Mr and Mrs A. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs A 50% towards the cost of the undamaged  light fitting and 
50% towards  the cost of the undamaged rug.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2021.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8695991