K821x#15complaint
Miss G says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Miss G between 
February 2013 and April 2014.  Miss Gs lending history is as follows:
date taken date repaid loan amountagreed  weekly  
repaymentmonthly
equivalent
10/02/2013 02/08/2013 £215 £17.77 £77.00
03/08/2013 24/01/2014 £400 £33.06 £143.26
29/11/2013 23/05/2014 £390 £39.87 £177.77
02/02/2014 25/07/2014 £300 £30.67 £132.90
21/04/2014 10/10/2014 £300 £30.67 £132.90
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Gs complaint  and thought  that loan five shouldnt  have 
been given. Lending Stream agreed  and offered to repay the interest and charges Miss G 
had paid on that loan.
Miss G didnt  agree as she thought  loans  two to five shouldnt have been lent. So as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved, it has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Miss G could  repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
Miss Gs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss G. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN88902222There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Its important for me to start by saying that Lending  Stream was required  to establish 
whether Miss G could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties, and in particular, the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time while meeting other reasonable  commitments. They should also 
be able to make their repayments  without having to borrow further.  It follows  that a lender 
should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
Having thought about everything, I havent  seen enough to make me think  that Lending 
Stream shouldnt have  lent the first four loans to Miss G. But, for the same reason as our 
adjudicator said,  I dont think that loan five shouldve been lent to her. Ill explain why.
Loan two was taken the day after the first loan was repaid. I understand why Miss G has 
raised an issue with this, and I know she says that Lending Stream  shouldve realised she 
was dependent on short-term loans  at this point. But as this was so early  on in the lending  
relationship, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate  for Lending  Stream  to do further 
checks at this point.
Miss G has pointed  out that the affordability checks that Lending Stream  carried  out only 
focussed on the individual loan she was taking, and not overlapping loans.
I dont know exactly how Lending stream phrased or displayed the questions  it asked  
Miss G, but it does look as though it established  her income and expenditure at the time she 
applied for each loan. She declared  free income  of £720 per month  when applying  for both 
loans three  and four. 
I can see that Miss G did in fact have  overlapping loans  with Lending Stream;  when she took 
loan three  she was still repaying  loan two, and when she took loan four she was still 
repaying loan three.  But taking  into account the monthly  payments  for the overlapping loans, 
and bearing in mind  the disposable  income that Miss G declared, I still dont think  it was 
wrong for Lending  Stream to lend to her at these points.
There comes  a point where more  thorough  checks wouldve  been  proportionate  and I think  
that Lending stream couldve asked more  questions about Miss Gs monthly  lending  
commitments from loan three onwards. I say this because as Ive said,  Miss G still had a 
loan running when she applied for loans three and four.
Ref: DRN88902223But having  reviewed Miss Gs bank statements, and the information I know  about her from 
around that time, I dont think asking for more information wouldve stopped Lending Stream 
agreeing to lend to her. Whilst I can see she had used other payday loan companies, it 
doesnt look as though  she was heavily reliant  on short-term lending,  and this is also 
reflected in the monthly expenditure figures  she declared. And while I accept  that a pattern  
of Miss G taking loans in quick succession was beginning  to emerge by the time of loan four, 
bearing in mind the amounts of the loans and the circumstances of the lending,  I dont think  
that that pattern was established  such that Lending  Stream should  have  seen that the 
lending had become unsustainable.  
That said,  I dont think Lending Stream  shouldve  lent loan five to Miss G. I say this because 
at the time she started repaying  this loan, and for the first month  or so that it was running, 
she was still repaying  loans three and four in addition. And these repayments, plus the 
repayments for loan five, made up a significant  portion of Miss Gs income. Although  at the 
time of applying for loan five Miss G declared  lower monthly  expenditure, and therefore  had 
a reported higher monthly disposable income, the combined monthly repayments of these 
three loans  of around £438 took up almost half of that.
So it was highly likely Miss G would  struggle  to repay these loans without needing to borrow  
further to cover the hole the three repayments left in her finances. This wasnt  a sustainable 
position and so Lending Stream should reasonably  have seen that any further loans  were  
unsustainable and so shouldnt have lent loan five.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan five and Lending Stream should put things right.
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss G paid on loan five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan five from Miss Gs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest.  Lending Stream 
must give Miss G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Gs complaint. I require 
Gain Credit LLC to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8890222