K821x#15complaint
Miss V says Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limiteds  poor handling of her personal pension plan 
meant that she couldnt use her fund to take a tax-free cash sum and arrange a drawdown  
facility with the balance, as shed  wanted  to do.
Background
Miss V is represented by Mr S, who also dealt with Aviva  Life when trying to settle  her 
pension arrangements.
Miss V was born in 1943. She joined her now Aviva  Life personal pension  scheme  in 1993. 
Her monthly  contributions were invested in unitised with profits funds. She selected  a 
retirement age of 60, but when she decided not to take the benefits in 2003  the plan 
defaulted to a retirement age of 75.
Aviva Life sent Miss V several  communications  as she approached her 75th birthday in 
March 2018. These  set out the options  she had for utilising her pension  funds. Miss V 
started to engage with the process  in February  2018. She wanted to use her pension  pot to 
get a TFC lump sum and put the residual funds into a drawdown facility.
The pension plan Miss V had with Aviva Life didnt offer her the flexible drawdown  option she 
wanted. That meant she had to transfer her funds  to a new plan, either with Aviva  Life or a 
new provider. Miss V wanted  to stay with Aviva  Life.
Unfortunately, things didnt go smoothly.  And by July 2018 Aviva  Life informed Miss V shed 
missed her opportunity to decide what to do with her pension funds. It said shed have to use 
all her pension pot, less an adjustment for assumed tax liability,  to buy one of its annuities.
Miss V had concerns about what had happened. For example, Aviva  Life seemed to ignore  
her wishes  about how she wanted  to proceed.  And shed tried to set up an authority for Mr S 
to deal with her arrangements, but things  went wrong complicating  matters.
Aviva apologised for the mistakes it made in setting up Mr Ss authority to act on Miss Vs 
behalf. But it said it had informed Miss V in good  time about what she needed to do as she 
approached her retirement age. It let her know what the consequences  would be if she didnt 
act. And it gave her a period of grace  when  she couldnt meet the original deadline.
The investigator upheld  this case.  Aviva  Life disagreed, so Miss Vs case  was passed to me 
to consider.
I issued my provisional decision last month. Although Aviva Life no longer contested our 
jurisdiction in this case, it strongly disagreed with my initial  conclusions  on the merits of Miss 
Vs complaint. It gave  a lengthy response providing information  about  the uncontested  
history of Miss Vs pension. It clarified certain  matters. But largely, it restated its position.
Unfortunately for Aviva Life, hasnt  engaged  with my key findings  about Miss Vs complaint. 
It follows that it hasnt persuaded me to depart from the outcome  I set out previously. So, 
here is my final decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN86425372Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  Miss Vs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Aviva Life has given  us its case file which includes documentation and available recordings 
of conversations between its advisers and Mr S and Miss V between January and 
August 2018.  Ive also read the testimony  provided  on behalf of Miss V.
the run-up to Miss Vs 75th birthday
My starting point is the documentation sent by Aviva Life to Miss V in the run up to the 
retirement age for her personal  pension plan. I can see following an enquiry about  her 
retirement plans it responded in March 2017  detailing her pension  fund and future  options.
The letter sets out what restrictions applied to her plan, for example  Miss V wouldnt  be able 
to take her money  as and when she needed  it, either as cash  sums or a flexible income.  If 
she wanted to do this, she would have to transfer  her whole fund to another product.
Aviva Life detailed the consequences  of not acting, specifically if she didnt make a choice by 
her 75th birthday.  It said:
You cant continue this plan with Aviva beyond the age of 75. If you don't want to take the 
benefits on or before your 75th birthday, youll have to move your money into another plan or 
product, either with Aviva or another provider.
Because of this it's really important you speak to us before your 75th birthday.
If we dont  hear from you by your 75th birthday, we'll have to assume  you don't have any 
lifetime allowance  left. This means well take a 25% tax charge from your fund value and pay 
it to HM Revenue and Customs. Well then use the rest of your fund to buy an annuity,  which  
you won't be able to change later-on.
This information was more prominent  in some  of the subsequent letters Aviva Life sent to 
Miss V. It wrote to her in September and December 2017 and January 2018. I think these  
letters were reasonably clear that she needed to act. This hasnt been disputed by Miss V.
Indeed, Aviva Lifes communications worked  because it did hear from Miss V, as stipulated 
prior to her 75th birthday.  And with Mr Ss assistance, she told it what  she wanted to do with 
her fund.
The investigator asked  for sight of Aviva Lifes contract with Miss V so he could see what  
terms and conditions were set out, particularly around what  would happen if she reached her 
75th birthday without acting.
Aviva Life provided a copy of the application Miss V completed to join the pension scheme. 
This confirmed the benefits would be taken at the selected retirement  age of 60. However, 
as Miss V didnt take her benefits at the originally agreed date of 3 March  2003, the 
retirement date was deferred to her 75th birthday.
Aviva Life says Miss V couldve  taken her benefits  at any time up to her 75th birthday, but 
once she reached  this age the only option  was an enforced annuity. This had been a 
regulatory requirement. And it was part of its standard approach. 
Ref: DRN86425373Various pension freedoms  have been  introduced since Miss V joined  her Aviva Life pension 
scheme. For example,  in 2010 the law was changed  to allow  consumers to remain in an 
unsecured pension until they were  77. And in 2011  the law effectively  compelling  pensioners  
to buy an annuity  at that age was removed.
While these changes were enabling  for consumers,  its important to note that in many areas 
companies werent compelled to change existing schemes. The nature of pension contracts 
requires long-term asset and liability  planning,  so I recognise why this was the case.
Despite my request  Aviva Life hasnt provided  a copy  of the pension contract terms and 
conditions its relying on to apply rules  it says became binding on Miss V at the age of 75.
Miss V engages with Aviva about  her pension arrangements
Miss V began engaging with Aviva Life just over a month before her 75th birthday. But 
problems in the communications between her, Mr S and Aviva Life led to the position shes  
complaining about  that shes been told her only option for her personal pension  plan is to 
take an enforced annuity with Aviva  Life.
Between January and July 2018 there  were  more than a dozen phone calls between the 
parties about Miss Vs pension plan. Mr S and Miss V spoke to 11 different advisers.  So 
perhaps inevitably the support and advice they received was fragmented, inconsistent and 
increased the risk of communication  issues arising along the way.
Its important context  for the calls Mr S and Miss V had with Aviva Life that the advisers were 
somewhat constrained. They  rightly needed  to make sure Miss V had given her authority  to 
discuss matters with Mr S.
The advisers were also only responsible  for Miss Vs existing personal  pension plan. They  
didnt have the knowledge or authority to discuss other products. There  was a need  to be 
seen to be acting  at arms-length in respect of other Aviva  Life plans, the advisers  couldnt  
give financial  advice or recommend  which  pension  scheme to transfer  Miss Vs funds to.
In the first call on 31 January 2018  Miss V gave authority  for Mr S to lead the conversation. 
From the outset her preferences were reasonably clear. She didnt want to buy an annuity 
with her pot. She wanted to access a 25% tax free lump  sum (TFC).  And she wanted  to put 
the balance in a flexible  drawdown facility.
I also think Aviva Life was clear with what it told them. It said Miss Vs plan didnt enjoy the 
sort of flexibilities she wanted to make  use of. Her choices  were to take the fund in full or to 
buy an annuity (with or without TFC). But it also made clear she could transfer  her funds to a 
new plan that could give her the flexibilities  she sought.
letter of authority for Miss V to be represented by Mr S
Mr S rang the next day. He wasnt with Miss V so the conversation he was able to have was 
limited. But hed already  looked into alternative plans available through  Aviva Life. He said 
Miss V wanted TFC and a drawdown  arrangement for the remainder of the pot. He said 
Aviva Lifes  AV2 plan looked like a good  option.
Ref: DRN86425374Mr S wanted  to ask questions about  charges associated with transferring Miss Vs plan. 
Aviva Lifes  adviser signposted  him to its website where he could find answers to his 
questions and effect the transfer.
The next significant call happened on 8 February.  Mr S called to say that hed attempted  to 
register online for the AV2 plan but couldnt complete the process because he didnt  have a 
policy start date. As Miss V wasnt  with him, Aviva  Life couldnt provide the information he 
needed.
For context, we know from Miss Vs testimony  that the reason shed wanted Mr S to act on 
her behalf  wasnt only his previous financial experience but also because she was occupied  
providing care for a friend who was very ill.
Aviva Life advised Mr S about the different sorts of authority he could get from Miss V to act 
on her behalf. This included where  she was in the room with him, a 24-hour approval and a 
more permanent arrangement with the production of a letter  of authority (LOA). In respect of 
this final option,  the adviser  went on to tell Mr S:
 [we] just need a LOA from [Miss  V] with her policy number, signed by the policyholder 
addressed to Aviva and dated
The adviser noted that this could take some time to work through  the system.  Mr S noted  
that he was hoping to get things sorted tomorrow. He knew  things had to be done quickly 
because Miss Vs 75th birthday was approaching in a few weeks.
I think theres a problem with what Aviva  Life told Mr S here.  This incomplete  advice about 
LOA requirements was a significant contributory factor in the problems which  arose later in 
the process.
The next day Mr S rang again, this time he was with Miss V so there  wasnt any problem 
talking about her pension plan. Aviva  Life gave Mr S the missing information  about the date 
of Miss Vs policy, which he needed  for the online application for the AV2 plan.
The adviser informed  Mr S that he didnt need  to complete the forms recently  sent out to 
Miss V about her options if he was completing the transfer online.  But Mr S wanted to return  
the form anyway  to set out what Miss V wanted to do. And Aviva Life said he could  do this, 
and Miss V would be sent more information.
Mr S next called on 14th February.  He wanted to know if the LOA and Miss Vs completed 
options form had been received. This indicated again that Miss V wanted to take TFC and 
that the balance would  be put into a cash fund. It also indicated a choice  to transfer the fund 
into the AV2 plan and suggested the account  had been set-up.
Aviva Life confirmed the documents had been received and scanned onto the system. Mr S 
left the conversation on the understanding that all the information hed sent had been 
received. That if Aviva  Life needed anything else it would contact him. And that it had his 
contact details.
Aviva Life has told me that as Mr S had indicated on the options  form hed set-up  the AV2 
account, it didnt  need to do anything  else. Thats  because it would simply await  an 
electronic request to make the transfer.  Ive thought  about this, but its argument isnt telling 
when I weigh subsequent events and outcomes.
Ref: DRN86425375For example, Aviva  Life says the next contact  it had with Mr S was on 26 February when it 
requested a completed option selection  form. What it had received to date wasnt  enough. It 
also issued transfer  forms  it says, in case  there were problems (presumably with the AV2 
account), or if Miss V changed her mind  about where to transfer her funds to.
So, Aviva Life seems  to have anticipated potential problems with the transfer account Mr S 
had tried to set-up for Miss V. But it wasnt proactive in this regard when initial deadlines  for 
her to have  effected  decisions about her fund had passed.
There isnt a call recording from 26 February,  but a call note records that Aviva Life rang 
Miss V. The phone number it used  was Mr Ss mobile number. Against his name it notes 
LOA as per documents scanned on 12/2/18. So, it appears at this point Aviva  Life accepted 
Mr S was representing Miss V. However,  while it sent the transfer  and option  forms for 
completion to her, it didnt send anything to Mr S.
The next time Mr S called Aviva Life was on 30 May. Unfortunately,  it became clear  thered 
been issues with the LOA process. For example, it still needed two forms of identification for 
him. Mr S wanted to understand the status of Miss Vs personal  pension plan. The adviser 
couldnt answer questions because there wasnt an authority in place.
In its final response letter  Aviva Life said it received the full set of Mr Ss identification 
documents on 7 June.  It says while his authority was eventually confirmed on 27 June, the 
deadline for receipt of Miss Vs completed  transfer forms had passed on 8 June.
The final response  letter doesnt quite tie up with the call recordings Aviva  Life has supplied. 
For example, Mr S next called on 27 June, not 28 June  as it suggested. And he was told the 
LOA process still hadnt been completed.  The adviser ended  the call by saying hed get a 
call back to clarify the situation. This doesnt  seem to have happened.
On 4 July another option and quotation  pack was issued, this time it was copied to Mr S, 
confirming authority had now been  put in place  for him to progress matters  on behalf of 
Miss V. The problem was of course that Aviva Life had already said Miss V had missed the 
deadline for getting matters completed.
Aviva Life says that Mr S was a retired financial adviser and he shouldve  been aware of the 
retirement process and the procedures of financial companies. So, he shouldve  known  what  
was required in terms of setting up the LOA. I understand the argument being made.
Ive asked Mr S about what Aviva  Life said. He acknowledged the process  wasnt quite as 
hed expected. But he thought that perhaps fuller details werent required because  he wasnt  
dealing with the money. He didnt question what the adviser asked him for because  they 
shouldve known.
Ive thought about this carefully.  Ultimately  Mr S wasnt a practicing financial adviser. In fact 
hed retired over 15 years earlier. As well as it being unrealistic to expect him to recall 
everything from his past career, Aviva  Life would acknowledge thered also been 
considerable change in regulation and practice over this period. While Im sure Miss V 
trusted his support, his representation  wasnt on a professional, paid basis.
Ref: DRN86425376Ultimately, Mr S trusted  what  the adviser told him about was required for its LOA process. 
With hindsight perhaps he shouldve probed more.  But I think Aviva  Life must bear the 
primary responsibility for what went wrong here.
On 8th February  2018 Mr S acted on Aviva  Lifes advice about what to do to get an ongoing 
authority in place  to represent Miss V. And the documents he sent in were  scanned onto its 
system on 12 February 2018.
But it wasnt  until nearly four months  later that Aviva Life informed either Miss V or Mr S that 
there was a problem  with the LOA documentation  sent in. This is despite appearing to have 
dealt directly with Mr S in the intervening period. His position as representative wasnt 
accepted and confirmed until the end of June 2018, when it was too late.
I think its more likely than not, had the problem  with the LOA process been brought  to 
Miss V and Mr Ss attention months earlier than it was, this wouldve been sorted out. And 
then there  wouldve been plenty of time - within the grace period provided - for the objectives 
she had for her pension  fund to have been  given effect.
Aviva Lifes  contact with Miss V
After Aviva Life spoke to Mr S on 26 February 2018, it sent the pack of option and transfer  
forms to Miss V the next day. They werent sent to Mr S. In the covering letter  it said:
If after reading all the information  you still wish to proceed with a transfer  of the policy,  we 
will require the following:
Completion of a Transfer Payment Release  Form.
Please note that in order for the transfer payment to be made, our transfer requirements are 
required in full within a 6-month period of the policyholder's signature on the transfer 
payment release form. Without this documentation  we will be unable  to process the payment  
of the transfer.
I asked Aviva Life about the wording here  I thought it was ambiguous.  It said the forms 
issued were standard and that Miss V shouldve  been aware from previous correspondence 
it had sent her what she needed to do, by when and the consequences of not doing this. It 
said its previous communications should  far outweigh the wording within a form.
Aviva Life hasnt done enough to satisfy me on this point. The paperwork Miss V received 
related to her last call, and so that was the context in which  a key message about the 
timetable for action  in its covering letter was received. I think the communication was 
unclear.
If Mr S had been in place  as her representative  maybe hed have understood. But we know  
from Miss Vs testimony that she thought Aviva Life had given her plenty  of time to sort 
things out. Its plausible to me she formed such an impression  from a communication  like 
this.
Aviva Life says that Miss V called on 13th April.  Theres no call recording or file note. Miss V 
said she was promised  a call back after this contact,  but that didnt  happen. Instead  she 
called again on 23 April. She referred to some  letters she had in front of her. She had the 
option and transfer forms sent to her by Aviva Life in February 2018. And shed  received  a 
letter from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN86425377Ive listened to the call and it was clear from the conversation she was confused  about  what  
she needed to do about her pension  plan. For example, she said:
I dont know what Im supposed  to do about  itwhen I paid in for a pension  I thought  when I 
got to 75 I could have all my moneybut they say its got to be transferred  to another 
fundand because  I havent dealt with itit will be different to what you said it would be
Unfortunately, Ive only got the first part of this conversation to listen  to; it breaks off where 
the adviser says hell call the relevant  team to understand whats happened. Theres a short 
transcript on file which refers to more paperwork being issued and a four-week  deadline.
Theres also mention  of Open Market  Option quotes being issued to Miss V. This is odd 
because the option of taking an annuity  has never been her stated preference.
I think there was an opportunity missed here to get to the bottom of what  was happening 
with the LOA for Mr S. Especially given Miss Vs obvious state  of worry and need of support. 
I appreciate it wasnt Aviva Lifes responsibility to give her financial advice. But it did have a 
duty of care to her as a customer. The call was an important trigger  point.
Following the call, Aviva Life issued  another pack to Miss V on 27 April. This again set out 
her pension options, associated quotes  and forms to complete. Aviva agrees this wasnt  
tailored - it didnt have  paperwork  for customers in her situation where theyd already passed 
the age of 75. Again, the paperwork wasnt copied  to Mr S.
How it engages with its customers is a matter for Aviva Life. My observation  is simply that 
working with standard templates when dealing with Miss V, whose circumstances it 
acknowledged werent routine, wasnt conducive to effective communication.
I think theres another problem with what happened in Miss Vs journey with Aviva Life. I 
didnt hear in any of the calls it had with her or see in any of the paperwork it sent her, after 
she had passed  her retirement  date where  it made clear what deadline she had to work  to 
for getting matters finalised. It seems that cut-off date was 8 June 2018.
So, Aviva Life hasnt  done enough  to satisfy me it was clear and fair in its communications  
with Miss V.
considering Miss Vs clear and consistent intent
From February 2018 when Mr S started to engage  with Aviva Life to arrange Miss Vs 
pension arrangements, her wishes were  reasonably  clear. She didnt want  an annuity. She 
did want to take TFC and to use the residual funds for a drawdown arrangement.
Aviva Life felt it provided the necessary forms and informed Miss V and Mr S of its 
requirements and the consequences of not meeting these. It says it wouldnt be right to 
blame it for her retirement wishes not being  met. 
Aviva Lifes  arguments arent  without  merit. It even allowed an extension  for Miss V to sort 
things out. Its also arguable Mr S shouldve done more  to chase things up between  March 
and May,  although  I know he was dealing with his own serious health issues  during  this 
period. And perhaps Miss V couldve made  it clearer  she wanted Mr S to deal with things.
Ref: DRN86425378But as the number of calls stacked-up, although  Miss V and Mr S consistently articulated her 
preferences, she drifted  into a position where  the one option  she clearly never wanted was 
the one she ended up with. I think all parties would  agree thats a poor outcome. And as my 
prior findings make clear, Aviva Life bears a significant share of the responsibility here.
effecting the transfer of Miss Vs personal  pension  fund
As I mentioned, in some of the earlier calls Aviva Life had with Mr S it made clear it couldnt 
give financial  advice or recommend  which  pension  scheme to transfer  Miss Vs funds to. Its 
also told us Miss V didnt  need regulated advice to transfer from her then existing plan to 
another one.
Aviva Life did provide Mr S with contact numbers and website details for a different part of its 
organisation to explore the transfer of funds  to a different pension plan. Mr S said Miss V 
wanted to stay with Aviva  Life and hed been  actively looking into the AV2 Aviva plan.
Unfortunately, Mr S had difficulty completing the application online in February 2018. Initially  
he couldnt complete  the process  because  he didnt have Miss Vs existing pension plan 
date. When he asked  Aviva Life for it, they couldnt let him have it because  the LOA process 
hadnt been completed. And when he did finally get the information, he says he encountered  
problems with the platform.
Aviva Life has said its pension  platform was an extremely user-friendly and there were no 
issues at the time. Mr S provided a screenshot he took during his attempted application in 
February 2018. The message says, Were sorry, it looks  like you dont have any policies to 
view online.
I asked Aviva Life about reports from February 2018  of problems with its pension platform. It 
has assured me these  were related to the facility used by financial advisers and the only 
other problem related  to payment delays for existing drawdown customers. 
Ive no reason to doubt what Aviva Life told me. I think its more likely  the problems Mr S 
experienced were  because, as we know, he hadnt managed to properly set-up an account 
for Miss V.
In any event, the problems Mr S experienced online made the completion of the transfer 
forms even more important. Of course, he wasnt sent a set of these until the deadline for 
completion had passed.
previous decision  by this service referred to by Aviva Life
Aviva Life has drawn my attention to another case that has been dealt with by this Service. It 
says this covered  the same issue and the ombudsman didnt uphold  the case. As it is aware, 
I must decide each  case that comes to me based  on the circumstances and evidence of that 
complaint.
Ive had a look at the final decision Aviva  Life has referred to. From this alone,  its clear there 
are material  differences  between the cases. For example, in the other case an independent 
financial adviser (IFA) had been  employed by the consumer. In this case  Miss V had tried to 
put Mr S in place as her representative,  but we know that process  failed.
Ref: DRN86425379Aviva Life thinks  both cases were different as well. For example, the grace period it allowed 
in the case it referred to was around  five months.  In Miss Vs case  it was around three 
months. As an aside,  this demonstrates the significant latitude  it had when calling time on a 
customers opportunity to settle arrangements  subsequent to their 75th birthday.
Im not persuaded the case Aviva  Life has highlighted is the same as Miss Vs case, and so 
it doesnt affect my conclusions.
putting things right
Aviva Life needs to put things right by giving  effect  to Miss Vs wish to secure 25% TFC lump  
sum and placing  the residual funds into a flexible drawdown facility. I understand she would 
like to remain with Aviva Life - it will need to advise her and Mr S if this is possible. If it isnt it 
will need  to enable the transfer  of her fund to another  provider where  she can give effect to 
the choices she wanted to all along.
In theory,  Miss Vs pension benefits  shouldve been  available to her immediately  after the 
retirement date of her plan on 3 March 2018.  So, I also need to think about what, if any, 
compensation is due because  she hasnt  had access to these for nearly a year.
As Ive tried to set out, although on balance I hold Aviva Life primarily responsible  for the 
position Miss V finds herself in, these  matters are rarely binary.  I recognise the difficult 
personal circumstances both Mr S and Miss V found themselves in along  the way, but thats  
not the responsibility of Aviva Life. And its arguable they couldve been  more  proactive and 
more co-ordinated.
I dont think it would  be fair to require  Aviva Life to revalue each  element  of Miss Vs 
retirement benefits from March 2018.  That said it should make some  adjustment  because I 
think it is primarily responsible. If things had gone more smoothly, Im assuming she 
wouldve had access to her retirement benefits by the end of September  2018 at the latest.
So, assuming Miss V wouldve been able to access her TFC by 1 October 2018, wed say 
shed missed an investment opportunity because of the delay shes experienced in getting 
her money since then.
To work out the value  of this missed opportunity Aviva Life need  to apply interest  at 8% 
simple per annum to the TFC sum that Miss V wouldve  been  paid from 1 October 2018 until 
it settles. This should be calculated gross and paid net of tax due.
After dealing with the TFC element of Miss Vs pension pot I turn to the residual fund value 
(the remaining  funds available for her investment in a drawdown facility).  Here we take a 
different approach to understand any potential financial impact.
We look to establish  how the money wouldve been  invested if things had gone  to plan. And 
if thats not clear, we consider the consumers attitude to risk and use a benchmark that 
reflects this. Mr S has told us previously that the residual fund wouldve been  in cash, at 
least for a while until Miss V had decided what to do.
So, because Miss V wouldnt have wanted to put her capital  at risk, Aviva Life will need  to 
work out what she wouldve got if the return on her residual funds had matched  the average 
rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds (as published by the Bank of England).
Ref: DRN864253710This doesn't  mean that we necessarily think she wouldve  invested  only in this type of bond. 
Rather, the benchmark's intended  broadly  to reflect the sort of return a customer  could have 
obtained with little or no risk to their capital.
This should be calculated gross  for the period from 1 October 2018 until it settles.  As this 
represents an investment  loss within  a pension, I would not expect this return to be taxed. 
Aviva will need to enable  the set-up of a drawdown  plan based  on this recalculated  amount.
trouble and upset
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint like this, Ill think about whether its fair to 
award compensation for trouble and upset.  This isnt intended to fine or punish a business  
which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, a businesss recognition 
of the emotional  and practical impact can make  a real difference.
We're all inconvenienced at times  in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other  
people, businesses and organisations.  For me to award compensation, I need to decide that 
the impact of Aviva Lifes actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience  or upset. I 
think it was in this case.
Theres been a significant delay in Miss V securing  her retirement benefits. This has clearly 
caused her worry. And this has been  compounded because Aviva Lifes  position was that 
she couldnt use the fund in the way she wanted to.
I require Aviva Life to pay Miss V £500 for the trouble and upset it has caused her.
putting things  right  summary
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to put things right for Miss V by:
-Allowing her to transfer  her fund to one of its flexible drawdown products, and 
enabling her to take a 25% TFC lump sum.
-Apply interest at 8% simple per annum to the TFC sum that Miss V receives, for the 
period from 1 October 2018  until it settles.  This should be calculated gross and paid 
net of tax due.
-For the residual funds after her TFC, to work out what she wouldve got if the return 
on these had matched  the average  rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds (as published  
by the Bank of England) for the period 1 October  2018 until it settles. The gross 
result of this calculation to be added to the funds  it places into the drawdown plan.
-Pay Miss V £500 for the trouble  and upset it has caused her.
Miss V has stated her preference to remain with Aviva Life. But if it cant  give effect to her 
wishes, it will need to enable her to do so with another provider. And in doing so it will need 
to ensure she receives the full value  of the compensation Ive provided for.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Vs complaint. I require Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to put matters right in the way Ive set out.
Ref: DRN864253711Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8642537