K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 
1996. Mr C says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI when he took out his Visa and 
MasterCard cards.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Barclays had to make it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he had to choose 
to take it out. Barclays has given me a copy of Mr Cs credit card application form that he 
completed for both the Visa and MasterCard. This form includes a section  on PPI, and the 
Yes box opting  for the PPI has been  ticked. If Mr C hadnt wanted the PPI he couldve ticked 
the No box, which has been left blank. So on balance, I think Barclays  made it clear the PPI 
was optional and Mr C agreed to take it out, knowing  he could refuse if he didnt want  it.
Mr C completed  the application  in his own time and sent it back  to Barclays,  so dont think 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr C. This means Barclays  did not have to check  that the 
PPI was right for him  but it did need to give him clear enough information to decide for 
himself if he should take the PPI. 
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if Barclays had given him better or clearer information, I dont think it would 
have made  a difference. I still think she would  have taken out the policy.  I say this because  
Mr C was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the 
cover.
Mr C says he wasnt entitled  to any sick pay. The PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months 
if he was unable to work  because  of accident or sickness. And the policy would  cover  the 
same term if he was to lose his job. So I think he wouldve found the policy  useful.  
Overall, when taking into account everything Ive seen and been  told, I dont think  Mr C has 
lost out as a result of anything Barclays may have done wrong. Which  means Barclays  
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the costs of the PPI on his MasterCard and Visa 
accounts to Mr C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  on the MasterCard account - and I think that is fair 
in this case.
Ref: DRN81134572My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium on his MasterCard and Visa accounts.  I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8113457