K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc closed her account and added  a 
Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS)  marker  against  her name. Shed like 
NatWest to remove the marker. 
Background
Miss S had an account with NatWest. On the 20 November 2017, a payment of £9,800 was 
credited into Miss Ss account. On the same day NatWest received a report from another 
bank, Ill call H, that the funds were  fraudulent.  
Before NatWest could  recover  the funds £9,870 was spent via two bank transfers to two new 
payees and a £240 cash machine withdrawal. And only £10 was recovered. NatWest 
proceeded to close Miss Ss account and recorded  a CIFAS marker on her file. Miss S 
complained to our service  that she wasnt able to open a new bank account. NatWest 
responded to say they hadnt  done anything wrong in closing her account and adding the 
marker. 
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Ss complaint. Miss S initially  explained to our 
service that she hadnt given her security details to anyone else so couldnt understand how 
the transfers had been  made.  But on receiving  our investigators opinion, which said that 
there wasnt an explanation for how the transactions could have been carried  out without 
Miss Ss knowledge, Miss S explained  that she had in fact handed her card and other  
security details  excluding her card reader  to an acquaintance Ill call A. Miss S explained 
that A said he was due to receive  a payment but had account  issues, and asked to use hers 
instead  which she agreed to. Miss S maintains  that she didnt  have any knowledge that 
fraudulent activity was taking place. 
Miss S explained that as she had two cards linked to the account, she was able to continue  
to use one and didnt notice any problems with the account. She also explained that she 
thought that you could  only make  large  transactions or new ones using the card reader  
which she hadnt handed to A  so thought it would only be possible for A to use these 
services with her approval.  And she also didnt have access  to online banking at the time 
because her smart phone was broken. 
Our investigator asked  Miss S if she could  provide  anything to support this version of events 
 including  any contact  with A, but Miss S was unable to do so. She explained shed phoned 
A after discovering the fraud and all other messages were  sent via a social media  platform  
which she now doesnt have access to. 
Our investigator reviewed  Miss Ss complaint  and the new evidence provided   but they 
didnt uphold  her complaint.  Having looked at the circumstances of the events, and the way 
in which  the fraudulent payments were  used she thought that NatWest  had sufficient 
evidence to load the CIFAS marker. 
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators  opinion  and asked for her complaint to be passed 
to an ombudsman for a decision. 
Ref: DRN89554762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why below.
NatWest explained  it applied the CIFAS marker  because bank H said their customer didnt 
authorise the payment made to Miss Ss account.  So Ive looked  at whether NatWest was 
fair to apply the marker,  based on the evidence it had and the investigation it carried out and 
what the rules say about applying such markers.  
CIFAS guidance says the business  must have carried out checks  of sufficient  depth  to meet 
the burden of proof set by CIFAS,  which at that time was that NatWest needed to have 
enough information to make a formal complaint to the police or other  relevant  law 
enforcement agency. And that any filing should  be for confirmed cases of fraud, rather than 
mere suspicion.  In addition, CIFAS guidance  sets out businesses  are expected to retain the 
evidence they rely upon when applying a CIFAS marker for at least six years.  
Ive reviewed Miss Ss account of events  and the evidence NatWest have provided. And in 
doing so Im satisfied  that NatWest have sufficient  evidence  for the CIFAS marker to be 
recorded on her file. In coming to this view Ive taken into account the following reasons:
NatWest have provided evidence to show the inward payment received on the 
20 November 2017 was fraudulent. 
Miss S confirmed on a number  of occasions  to our investigator that she didnt give 
her details  to anyone  and had no idea how the new payees  were set up or the 
transfers made. Although I understand that Miss S may have been concerned about 
sharing her account of events with our investigator, I find it surprising  that Miss S 
didnt inform our investigator that shed shared her security details with A sooner. 
Miss S has explained that she gave all of her security details to A  who she believed  
to be a friend  as A had account issues and needed to receive  a payment. But, 
despite Miss S being given the opportunity  shes been  unable to provide any 
supporting evidence  including any details  or communication with A.
Miss S says that she didnt think A would be able to make large transactions or new 
ones from her account without the card reader. But, its unclear why  if her account 
was receiving payments  from As family  Miss S also gave  A access to her online 
banking, which was required  to set up the new payees and the three  bank transfers.  
Miss S says that at the time of the fraudulent transfer she didnt have access  to 
online banking as her smartphone broke  on moving to university. But, on looking at 
the online audit  supplied by NatWest I can see online log ins on at least  seventeen 
separate days in October and November prior to the fraudulent transfer  entering  
Miss Ss account. I find it strange that Miss S says she didnt have access to her 
online banking during this period and yet there are a high number  of log ins.  
I realise this will likely be disappointing to Miss S but taking everything into account I find that 
NatWest have met the burden of proof  required by CIFAS to add the marker. So Im not 
going to ask them to remove the CIFAS  marker.  
Ref: DRN89554763my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8955476