K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in December 2002.
background
Mr H took out a plan known  as a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP).  TMPP can be split 
into three sections: Mortgage  Repayments  Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover  and 
Critical Illness Cover  (CIC). Mr H has complained about the MPPI cover  so Ive only looked 
at the sale of this part of the package in this decision. he says the policy wasnt  optional   it 
was added to him account without either his knowledge or his consent.
The policy cost £15.87 each month and it covered Mr H in the event he lost his job and was 
unemployed or was unable to work due to accident or sickness. It wouldve provided a 
monthly benefit of £265.88 for up to 12 months  following  a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed  so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think its likely  Halifax  made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the MPPI and he 
chose to purchase the policy   although I can understand if he cant remember  this given 
how long ago it was.
I havent been able to look at all the paperwork from the time the policy was sold but I 
dont think this is surprising given how long ago the sale took place. However,  I do know 
that the way MPPI was presented in 2002  showed that it was optional, and that a 
customer needed to agree  for a policy to be set up. 
Mr H says it wasnt clear  the policy was optional. And, if itd been clear,  he wouldnt have 
taken it out. But his recollections of the sale arent detailed  and so I havent been able to 
understand how he wasnt given a choice  to have the policy  by Halifax.  Taking this into 
account along with sample  documentation Ive seen  and what  I know about how these 
sales were conducted,  Im satisfied the policy was optional and I think  its more likely that 
Mr H was given a choice  about the MPPI.  
Ref: DRN85563792Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mr H so it had to check that the MPPI was right for 
him and, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  
he told us he was employed  and in good health.  And he seems to have had a need  for 
the cover. I say this because he told us he had no sick pay from his employer and a 
mortgage is a significant financial commitment  and the consequences  of defaulting on 
a mortgage can be very serious.  So it wouldnt be surprising if Mr H  who was solely 
responsible for the mortgage repayments  had an interest in protecting  his repayments. 
Overall I think he had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it. So it was 
reasonable of Halifax  to recommend it to him.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out to protect himself   so it looks  like he wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it wouldve been  useful for him if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
MPPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything else Mr H and his representative said - but Mr H chose to take 
out this policy.  It would also have allowed Mr H to leave any savings he may have had for 
the purpose that hed intended  as well as other essential expenses  at what is likely to be a 
difficult time financially  if hed lost his job. So these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8556379