K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that the environment in which she discussed her mortgage application in a 
HSBC UK Bank Plc branch put her personal information at risk. And she says she did not 
receive a response  when  she wrote to HSBC to complain about it.
background 
Mrs S went  to a HSBC branch to apply for a mortgage in September  2018.  She was taken to 
a meeting room  to discuss  her application. But she did not feel comfortable discussing her 
finances there because she could hear the conversation taking place in the next room  - 
which meant that the people in that room would also be able to hear her. She raised  the 
issue at the time and lowered her voice so as not be overheard.  But she was worried  that the 
circumstances of the meeting put her personal  information at risk. 
Mrs S wrote to HSBC  in November 2018  to complain but did not receive  a reply. She 
brought her complaint  to our service in January 2019.
When our investigator looked  into Mrs Ss complaint, HSBC said that feedback has been 
given to the branch and that they will look into the issue  in order  to decide if action needs to 
be taken regarding further soundproofing of the meeting rooms.  HSBC acknowledge Mrs Ss 
concerns, would like to apologise  to her, and have offered to pay £100 in compensation for 
her negative experience  in branch.
Our investigator explained that our service  cannot decide complaints about complaint  
handling. But she thought that HSBCs  offer to settle with regards to Mrs Ss data protection  
concerns was fair and reasonable.
Mrs S does not agree. She says that while data security is taken seriously online, the same 
level of care is not reflected in the branch environment.  She says that HSBC  branch staff 
had already complained about the meeting rooms to management, and the potential 
consequences of conversations  being  overheard was of great  concern. She does not think  
that £100 adequately  reflects  the scale and severity  of the issue.
And so this case has been  passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has clearly  set out her reasons for raising her complaint  and why she considers 
HSBCs offer of compensation to be inadequate in her letters. I completely  understand her 
concerns about  the security of her personal  information. And I appreciate that the 
circumstances of her meeting with HSBC has caused her worry.
But in my view HSBCs offer to settle  is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. And I shall 
explain my reasons. While I may not refer to every point raised by Mrs S, I have taken into 
account everything she has put forward.
Ref: DRN87904662The first thing to explain  is that were  an informal  dispute resolution service.  It isnt our role to 
decide if theres been a breach of data protection laws - thats for the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO). But I can look at whether  HSBC  have responded fairly and 
reasonably to the issues Mrs S has raised.
Mrs S complains that the environment of the meeting she had with HSBC  risked her 
personal information being overheard.  HSBC have acknowledged her concerns. And they 
say theyve provided feedback to the branch.  Theyve also said that will look into the issue  to 
see if the meeting  rooms  need further  soundproofing. These seem to me to be fair and 
reasonable steps to take. 
HSBC would also like to apologise to Mrs S and have offered to pay her compensation of 
£100 to acknowledge her negative experience in a HSBC branch.
I appreciate that Mrs S does not think  the amount of compensation offered is adequate.  And 
I understand that she is worried  about the consequences of her personal information being 
overheard. But its not the role of this service to make  awards  to mark disapproval  of 
anything a bank  has done, or to punish  them  in some  way. Our role is to compensate  for any 
financial loss suffered and for trouble and upset experienced. 
In this case there is no evidence of a specific data breach, that Mrs Ss personal data has 
been misused, or that she has suffered any financial loss as a result.  
HSBC have acknowledged that Mrs S was upset by what happened.  And I consider  their 
offer of £100 compensation to be fair and reasonable, and in line with the sort of award  that 
this service would  normally make.
We do not deal with complaints about complaint handling. But even if I took into account  the 
fact that HSBC did not reply to Mrs Ss November 2018 letter, theyve offered a sensible 
resolution of matters now. And all things  considered,  I think HSBCs offer of settlement is fair 
and reasonable.  
my final decision
My final decision is that in full and final settlement HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Provide Mrs S with a written apology;  and 
Pay to her £100 compensation for trouble and upset.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8790466