K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about the circumstances related to the closure,  by Spreadex Limited and 
due to a negative balance in his account,  of his spread betting  positions on 7 August 2018. 
background
In the main,  Mr G says:
Spreadex acted  as principal in the positions and, with a conflict  of interests, closed 
his positions to its advantage and not his  and it did not close  them fairly (contrary to 
its terms and regulation). In this respect,  Spreadex deliberately closed his positions 
at lower and lowest prices on the day.
Spreadex provided him with inaccurate  and misleading information about the closure 
of his positions. In this respect  and despite  his request, Spreadex was not 
forthcoming with information about times  and sales  of his positions.
Spreadex appears to have breached its RTS 27 obligation.
Spreadex has unreasonably pursued  him for recovery of the negative  account 
balance. In this respect and as redress for his complaint, the negative account  
balance should  be written off.
Spreadex disputes  the complaint. It says the chronology of events   supported  by telephone 
recording, email and account activity  records  begins with Mr G opening his buy positions in 
April and June 2018. Thereafter it refers to the following:
In the evening of 6 August Mr G called Spreadex  and to query what would happen  if 
the price of his positions continued to fall and caused a negative  balance in his 
account; he was told his positions  would  be sold in the market  at best [execution].
On 7 August,  between  07:14  and 08:23,  he called five times   first he was told his 
account was close to a negative balance  due to the continuing price  fall; then from 
08:00 he was told his account  was in negative balance, he was invited to make a 
payment into the account for this reason and to stop the positions from being 
closed/sold (which  he did not do); then from 08:06 he was told that his positions were 
being liquidated and that Spreadex  would work the sales  as best as it could; then 
from 08:13 he was told around 175,000  shares  (out of around 400,000 shares in the 
positions) had been closed/sold, he queried  why more than that had not already been  
sold given his awareness of available liquidity  in the market but he also requested 
that Spreadex  take its time with the sales; then, in the fifth call, he was told that all of 
his positions had been closed/sold  at two average prices   15.21 and 17.4.
Mr G was informed of the changing prices  related to the positions  at the time of each 
telephone call. In addition,  he was sent two emails  at 08:13  and 08:22  confirming 
the closure of all of his positions at the two average prices.
In response to the complaint issues Spreadex  says the terms for the account and its Order 
Execution Policy  entitled it to close the positions as it did; that it hedged  Mr Gs positions so 
it owned the shares to which they related, it was positioned as he was and, as such, it had 
no interest in whether  his spread bets won or lost; its evidence shows that the sales were not 
deliberately delayed for a lower price and, given its hedged positions, it had no incentive  to 
do that; it apologises for an unintentional mistake in the update given to Mr G during the 
08:13 call with regards  to the shares  sold at the time, but its email to him at the same time 
confirmed the position accurately; on 29 August 2018 it provided  Mr G with the times and 
sales information he requested; the RTS 27 related allegation is not relevant to the 
Ref: DRN88642982complaint; evidence of its communications  with Mr G shows  that it has not conducted itself 
unreasonably in the course of seeking  recovery of the negative  account balance.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld  for reasons broadly similar to the points made by Spreadex. Mr G did not accept 
this outcome and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. He sought and was granted 
additional time to present submissions in this respect. However,  after the additional time that 
was granted and despite the passing of a number of months the submissions do not appear 
to have been received.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Closure of Mr Gs positions
Spreadexs entitlement  to close and sell Mr Gs open buy positions upon  a negative balance  
arising in his account does not appear  to be in dispute. I have listened to the relevant 
telephone recordings  and Mr G can be heard  acknowledging this  furthermore, he appears 
to have done the same within his complaint submissions. For the avoidance of doubt I am 
satisfied that Spreadex was entitled,  by the Close Out Level provisions  within the customer  
agreement for the account, to close his positions due to the negative account  balance.
Conflict of Interests
I am also satisfied that Mr G did not incur a detriment from a conflict  of interests on 
Spreadexs part. His argument about  Spreadex being a principal  in his trades is limited only 
to that fact and it does  not reflect the hedged positions that Spreadex took in relation to his 
trades. In light of this, there does not appear to be a basis upon which  Spreadex  can be said 
to have profited  from his loss  given that it faced the same exposure that he faced. 
It appears Mr Gs secondary argument  in this respect is that there nevertheless remained 
scope for Spreadex to have executed  the closure of his positions poorly, at his expense  and 
to his detriment   even if it was not to its benefit.  I understand this point and I address it 
below, but with regards to what appears to be his primary assertion about  a benefit to 
Spreadex arising  from his losses, I do not consider  that was the case. 
Execution of Closures
Telephone evidence suggests  Mr G was somewhat conflicted with regards to how he hoped 
the positions would be closed. He argues  that his initial  request to spread the closures  over 
the course of the day was declined by Spreadex,  so he expects that it ought  to have closed 
the position at best execution and without undue  delay.  
However, the telephone recordings show that during the calls at 08:06  and 08:13  he 
repeated his hope that Spreadex would takes its time to sell the positions.  In between these 
expressions he did query why more  had not been  sold earlier, but he then followed that up 
with the second request for Spreadex to take its time. Spreadex  can even be heard pointing 
out, to him, this conflict on his part. I mention this as a basis  to note that, at the time and 
despite what he now says, it is not clear  that Mr G expected prompt  closures  or that he 
wanted delayed  closures.
Ref: DRN88642983Nevertheless, Mr G was entitled to fair execution of the close outs as he asserts. Spreadex  
does not dispute this. It says the close outs were fairly executed. It has presented evidence 
that shows the first set of positions was closed at 08:02; the second  and third sets were  
closed at 08:05; in recognition of Mr Gs call at 08:06 and the attempt to resolve the negative 
balance the closures  were  paused;  the closures  resumed after the call ended at 08:09  and 
two further sets were  closed at 08:11  and 08:12;  the fifth set entered an auction at 08:13  and 
was sold at 08:19;  and the last set was closed at 08:20. In this context, I do not consider 
that the closures were unduly delayed  and I have not seen evidence that the prices  applied 
for each  set  or the two average  prices  for all of the closures  were incorrect.
I have noted Mr Gs arguments about  the method(s)  used  by Spreadex in the closures, in 
terms of sales that he says could have been  met by liquidity available  in its order  book and in 
terms of the rationale  behind the closures applied to auction. Spreadex  was not obliged to 
meet a prescribed method of closure, it had discretion in this respect and I do not consider 
that it applied  that discretion unreasonably. It had other accounts in which other sales  had to 
be satisfied and it appears to have deployed  methods to cater, with balance, for the breadth  
of its activities at the time. 
Mr G disagrees  with the steps  Spreadex took in selling off his positions and he has asserted 
ways in which better steps  could have been taken,  but that does not automatically mean 
Spreadexs steps  were unreasonable. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that they 
were. I am not persuaded that its use of the auction was unreasonable   in the context of its 
activities in other accounts  and the suspension  in closure that took place was to benefit Mr 
G by giving him a chance to fund the account  and stop the closures.  Overall,  positions 
related to around 400,000 shares were closed within around 15 minutes   discounting the 
suspension period.
Closure Information
I am not persuaded that the update given to Mr G during the 08:13 call was as erroneous as 
he has argued  or that, if it was, it caused him a detriment.  Spreadex did not appear to 
confirm that precisely  175,000 shares  had been  closed, following reference  to this figure 
Spreadex stated  I think. The implication  is that the figure  was approximate. Nevertheless, 
its email to Mr G at the same  time provided an accurate update,  so there  does not appear to 
have been any intention to mislead Mr G. I appreciate that the two figures could have 
confused him, but given that the event was an automatic close  out of his positions which he 
was not in a position  to stop because he did not deposit funds into the account, I am not 
persuaded that such a confusion caused  him a direct detriment or that it was relevant to his 
interest in the close out process.
With regards to the times and sales information, Spreadex provided this information to Mr G 
upon his request  and to this service, upon  our request  so I do not consider it has done  
anything wrong.
RTS 27
This relates  to MiFID II Quality  of Execution Reporting, a regulatory matter which  as 
Spreadex says  is not directly  relevant  to the merits of Mr Gs complaint. Evidence  of 
execution of his positions has been made  available to him and to this service.  It has been  
sufficient and we have addressed the complaint on that basis.  If Mr G considers there is a 
separate regulatory concern in this respect, it is an issue beyond  my remit.
Ref: DRN88642984Recovery of Negative  Balance
In straightforward terms, I am not persuaded that Spreadex  has conducted itself 
unreasonably in this issue.  Pursuing  recovery of the negative balance appears to be its 
contractual right, Mr G has confirmed to it that he disputes the alleged debt and the matter 
appears to be heading  towards  litigation. Spreadex suspended  its pursuit during its 
treatment of the complaint and during our treatment  of the complaint. Overall  and on the 
basis of the recovery  related  correspondence  I have seen, I do not consider that Spreadex  
conducted itself or communicated to Mr G unreasonably.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8864298