K821x#15complaint
Mrs G says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  her a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2006. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Santander  has said but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mrs Gs 
complaint. This is because Mrs G wasnt eligible for the policy  because  she was 
probably working less than 16 hours  a week. To be eligible for the policy you had to be 
working at least 16 hours a week. This means  the policy wasnt of any use to her.
Santander has said that Mrs Gs annual salary at the time suggests she was working for 
17 hours a week, if she was receiving the minimum wage. But, given how long Mrs G 
had held her job, I think  it likely  shed  have been  receiving a higher hourly  rate. So this 
would suggest  she was working under 16 hours per week, which  would support her 
claim that she was part-time. 
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander UK Plc should put Mrs G in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt  been  cancelled  already, and 
Santander UK Plc should:
Pay Mrs G the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8%.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander UK Plc can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount  it owes  her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander UK Plc must  give Mrs G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
Ref: DRN88508762my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mrs G compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8850876