K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited  unfairly rejected her claim for damage to 
her home under her building policy and advised  her to go to her previous  insurer. Mrs S also 
complained that she had to pay for her own materials and alternative accommodation.
background
Mrs S said that in January 2018 she noticed  the shower tray in her bathroom wasnt level 
and not secured to the floor. She called a builder  who said thered been  leaks of water  which  
had damaged the floor boards and joists and the wall between the bathroom and the front 
room. There was also damage in the hall. Mrs S claimed to Ageas for the cost of repairs.
Ageas discussed  the estimate with Mrs Ss builder, who said it was hard to say how long the 
leak had existed, but it wouldve been  a good few months. He said the mains stop tap was 
leaking as well as the shower and they were at opposite ends of the bathroom. Mrs Ss 
builder said that Mrs S wouldnt have been aware of the leak.
Ageas said the amount of the estimate and the photos meant it needed its own contractor to 
see how long the leak had been  ongoing. It said its contractor found  that the damage 
occurred before the policy in October  2017  and so it couldnt pay her claim. It said Mrs S 
repaired the bathroom before being  advised  to do so. It said she should tell her previous 
insurer; but that insurer told Mrs S her claim wasnt its responsibility as Ageas is her insurer.
Mrs S said Ageas was asked if it wanted to see the damage prior to the work starting and it 
said wasnt necessary. Mrs S said she had no evidence of the time water was escaping, but 
her home was insured continually and the insurers from October 2017 were Ageas, as it was 
two years before.  Mrs S told Ageas of two areas of the house where plaster  was crumbling, 
not covered by its report, but Ageas said there  was no insured peril to cover this damage.
The investigator said it was fair for Mrs S to do the repairs as shed asked Ageas if it wanted 
to see the damage, and it said not. She said Ageas couldve  sent its contractors out sooner. 
She said no unnecessary  work had been  done to the bathroom, but didnt think  damage  to 
the hallway was due to an escape of water  as the evidence was different there.  She said 
Ageas insured Mrs S for damage to her home  and it could  try to identify this for the period of 
cover, but if it couldnt, it should pay for all damage to her bathroom and living  room.  She 
said Mrs Ss previous insurer wont pay her claim as shed already had the work done.  
Mrs S agreed, but said that Ageas  should  also pay for her alternative accommodation and 
for materials for the completion of the repairs.
Ageas disagreed saying the damage  was so bad that the leak had to be ongoing for a year 
before the claim and so was the responsibility  of Mrs Ss pervious insurer. It said she must 
have been aware  of some of the damage and went ahead with the work despite being  told to 
send in estimates, knowing that Ageas  would  need to see these before making a payment. 
Ageas said Mrs S didnt  mention she would need to move out, and it didnt cover  matching 
sets to tiles, and as shed  done the repairs  it couldnt see which  tiles needed removing and 
which were fine. Ageas  requested an ombudsman  review  the complaint.
The investigator recommended  the complaint be upheld saying Ageas should cover  the cost 
of repairs to Mrs Ss bathroom  and living  room. She said Mrs S stayed at a hotel for two 
Ref: DRN82101942nights as her bathroom, and only toilet  werent  in use and Ageas should  pay the cost of 
£104. She said Mrs S paid £443.17 for tiles and paint and as Ageas havent provided any 
information about her covering areas undamaged  by water, it should also cover  this cost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at Ageass handling  and decisions on Mrs Ss claim to see if it has acted 
in accordance with the terms of her policy and to see if it has treated her fairly. 
Mrs S had work done to her bathroom and this included parts  that werent damaged  by the 
escape of water. In itself this is not a reason to decline a claim, but I think it would have  been  
preferable for Mrs S not to have had the whole bathroom retiled before her claim was 
assessed. Notwithstanding this I can well understand  why she wanted  to get on with the 
work, and in Ageass file theres  a call note that records that Ageas wasnt sending anyone 
to visit and assess the damage. So I think it was reasonable for Mrs S to go ahead  with the 
work and make her home habitable.
Mrs Ss policy covers  her for damage  from an escape of water and from the reports its clear 
that this was the cause of damage  to her bathroom  and living  room. I can understand why 
Ageas wanted  to be certain the damage occurred during the life of the policy,  but sometimes  
thats just not possible. Mrs S makes  the fair point that shes been  continually insured for her 
home and held a previous policy with Ageas not long ago. I dont think its fair for Ageas to 
simply refer Mrs S to her previous insurer and I agree  with the investigator that Ageas  should 
meet the majority of Mrs Ss claim for repairs. 
From the evidence I have  seen, the damage  to Mrs Ss hallway is somewhat different to the 
damage in her bathroom and living room, and it doesnt appear to be water-related. I havent  
seen anything to suggest the hallway damage was related to a peril covered in Mrs Ss 
policy and so I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt be fair to require Ageas to pay for 
the repairs to the hallway.
Mrs Ss policy provides her with cover for alternative accommodation if her home cant be 
lived in, and I think its reasonable  for Ageas to reimburse her for this as its clear her home 
wasnt habitable while the work  was carried out. 
From what  Ive seen, much of Mrs Ss bathroom  tiles were damaged and I think its 
reasonable to expect  Ageas to cover the cost of the new tiles which have  allowed  Mrs S to 
decorate with a matching  set and restore the damaged  areas following the repairs.  Similarly I 
think its fair for Ageas  to reimburse Mrs S for the cost of her paint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs S the cost of her repairs to her bathroom and living 
room, less any excess the policy may require. I also require  Ageas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs S the cost of her hotel stay of £104  and her tiles and paint of £443.17.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Ref: DRN82101943Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8210194