K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains National  Westminster Bank Plc (Nat  West) continue to chase her for the 
payment of a debt when theyd previously told her when the account was defaulted shed no 
longer be pursued  for it. Mrs W is assisted in bringing her complaint by her husband Mr W.
background
Mrs W was party to a joint account  with NatWest. She complained to NatWest as they 
continued, through debt collection agencies to contact her for repayment  of the debt 
representing the outstanding balance on the account, after it had defaulted. She said this 
was wrong as shed  been told by NatWest in meetings that if the account defaulted she 
would no longer be pursued for the debt. 
 
On the basis they were  unable to ascertain what was discussed  between Mrs W and staff in 
branch and their Collections Team,  nor what the Branch advised Mrs W in respect of the 
actions to be taken,  NatWest upheld the complaint. They agreed Mrs W was incorrectly  
advised in branch that should  a default  be applied to her credit file the bank would no longer 
pursue her for the debt owed. They apologised,  sent a gift and said that irrespective of a 
default the bank would  still look to pursue  any named  party on the account for repayment. In 
respect of that incorrect advice they agreed that if the full balance was repaid by 14 
December 2017  the default would be removed alongside any adverse data that had been  
recorded on Mr Ws credit file after 21 March  2017   that being the date the branch last 
contacted the collections  team in respect of actions to be taken in recovery of the balance. 
Mrs W didnt agree and brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint and issued two views - both with the same  
outcome.
In her first view although she thought there  was a likelihood Mrs W was told that the debt 
would no longer be payable after the default, there was no evidence to confirm  this. But, as 
far as she could see, if Mrs W was told this it was incorrect and the default should have been 
recorded and the outstanding balance was still owed. So the investigator thought NatWest 
werent wrong to continue  to pursue Mrs W for the outstanding balance and she didnt ask 
them to honour  the agreement. She thought  the payment of a £30 gift voucher with the offer 
to remove the default  if the debt was paid by 14 December  2018 was a fair resolution to the 
complaint. 
In her second view,  in response to detailed  points made by Mrs W, the investigator said 
there was no evidence of any wrongdoing by the bank. But in this case  - even though 
NatWest and this service had accepted Mrs Ws version of events based on her memory of 
the conversation  - the investigator still felt what NatWest had offered was enough.  The 
investigator thought  Mrs W had suffered a loss of expectation  shed expected the debt to 
be written off after the default  and was understandably disappointed  this was not the case. 
But the investigator said, as a service,  we wouldnt ask the business to honour this purely on 
the basis there had been that loss of expectation  for two reasons. Firstly there  was no 
evidence the agreement was made, such as written confirmation. And, secondly, in the 
event that Mrs W failed  to make payments under the regulations a default  would  need  to be 
applied to her credit  file. And in those circumstances  the debt would remain payable.
Ref: DRN86052852Mrs W didnt agree. She repeated the points shed made earlier. She expressed doubts that 
this had been investigated thoroughly and asked  that the ombudsman  was made aware  of 
all factual evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that Mrs W feels our 
adjudicator hasnt fully investigated all aspects  of her complaint. Ive looked at everything  
afresh before reaching an independent view. But Im not persuaded this is a complaint I can 
fairly and reasonably uphold.
Im very sorry to hear of Mrs Ws medical  condition and her husbands poor health. I do 
understand this is a very difficult and worrying situation for them. Its clear that Mrs W has 
strong feelings about this complaint. Shes  provided  detailed submissions in support of her 
view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety. However,  I trust Mrs W 
will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central  issues, and 
that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my 
decision isnt to address  every point raised, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them.
I agree  with the approach  taken by the investigator in terms of what  we can consider in this 
complaint. This service has already issued a final decision dealing with Mrs Ws 
responsibility for the debt on 11 September 2017. It said when Mrs W and.opened the 
account they agreed to the terms and conditions of the account that meant  each of them  
would be liable for any debt independently  from the other. So NatWest was entitled  to chase 
Mrs W for the debt.  So I think its right that the only aspect of the complaint now brought  by 
Mr W which I can consider is whether or not NatWest should stop chasing Mrs W for the 
debt since a default was applied to her credit file.
Theres very little I can add to what the investigator  has already told Mrs W on this point.  It 
isnt my role to punish businesses for making  mistakes; its my role to put consumers back 
into the position that they shouldve been  in if the mistakes hadnt been  made.  The mistake 
which NatWest have  admitted (on the basis there are no recordings and giving Mrs W the 
benefit if the doubt) is giving incorrect advice to her that the debt wouldnt be pursued once 
defaulted. When Mrs W brought this to their attention they told her this was wrong. Mrs W 
wants them  to no longer pursue the debt based on that. But thats not logical or something  I 
can ask the bank to do. The debt is properly owed under the terms and conditions of the 
account. The mistakes  made by NatWest in giving incorrect advice to Mrs W dont justify 
writing off this debt. As the investigator explained defaulting the account  doesnt legally clear 
the debt.
I dont doubt that Mrs W and her husband are people of principal as they say. And I think  its 
important to re-iterate NatWest and this service accepted Mrs Ws version of events based 
on her memory of the conversation.  So its not the case that her concerns arent accepted. 
Its simply the case that, even accepting  her recollection, the actions  NatWest  have now 
taken are a reasonable response. Given how strongly Ms W feels  about what  happened  she 
may want to pursue  the matter further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end 
what we  in trying to resolve her dispute  with NatWest informally  can do for her. Im sorry 
if this disappoints  Mrs W.
Ref: DRN86052853my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019. 
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8605285