K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has not administered his index-linked life insurance  
policy fairly or correctly  in a variety of ways, including charging him higher premiums than his 
late wife and increasing these to an unreasonable level.
background
Lloyds rejected Mr Ss complaint. It said that Mr Ss premium was higher due to his declared  
medical condition  and the indexation of both the amount of cover and the premium cost was 
clearly spelt out in the original documentation.
It admitted  that the premium had mistakenly  not been collected  on two occasions which  
resulted in a double payment the following months. It had also mistakenly increased the 
premium by too much in 2017 but said it then refunded this plus interest.
Finally, it recognised Mr S had been frustrated by various calls with Lloyds staff when 
seeking answers to his queries but it was satisfied that the reasons for his higher premiums 
had been fully explained by its advisors.
In bringing his complaint to this service  Mr S raised  several additional points including feeling  
that the policy had been mis-sold in the first place and that he had not been aware of the 
proposed annual increases.
An investigator at this service did not feel his complaint should be upheld. Having reviewed 
Mr Ss circumstances and apparent objectives  he felt the plan was suitable  and the index-
linking was clearly  explained.
Mr S did not agree,  adding:
Its clear Lloyds/Scottish Widows mis-sold the policy  with the intention of extracting 
money
At the time of cancelling his policy he was vulnerable and Lloyds took advantage of 
him and were unsympathetic
He is disgusted at the way hes been treated and wants  the business  to refund him 
accordingly
The investigator said that even though Mr S thought the business was not sympathetic or 
supportive following  the death  of his wife that didnt affect the suitability of the policy at the 
outset or was sufficient  reason to refund premiums  paid. He said that Mr S was free to 
accept or decline the recommendation and could have  cancelled his policy at any time, if he 
felt he no longer needed or wanted  the cover it provided.
Mr S still did not agree,  saying that the premiums had been too high for the amount of cover. 
He also questioned whether he had been wrongly  advised to tick a particular  medical 
question at the outset, resulting in an excessive  weighting  being put on his policy.  During 
exchanges with Mr Ss GP it appeared that the question had been correctly  answered and 
Mr S no longer challenged this. But he maintained that the regular increases in the 
premiums meant the policy was likely  to become  unaffordable and that the business was all 
too aware of this.
Ref: DRN81880822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. Given  this, there  is not 
much more that I can add to what he has already  said in his two Views  of this case.  
It is in the nature of all insurance policies  from household and motoring to life cover  that 
some customers will benefit financially by making a claim when they have only paid a small 
number of premiums while others  will end up paying  far more  in premiums  than any eventual 
pay-out. This is particularly the case with life insurance policies.
I do understand Mr Ss strongly-held view that his funeral costs-style policy was too 
expensive at the outset and became increasingly  so given the indexation.  But from what  Ive 
read he was clearly presented with the necessary information about the costs and indexation 
process at the outset  so it was for him to decide  whether  he thought this represented 
reasonable value i.e. whether to take it out.
Ive seen no evidence  to suggest the business has varied from the terms and conditions or 
failed to carry out the correct indexation. So I cannot  accept that it has done anything wrong.
Equally, there is no evidence to suggest  that Mr Ss medical situation was wrongly recorded 
or, that if it was, it was the advisors fault. Again, if Mr S felt the cost of his policy  was 
disproportionately expensive compared to his wifes  he had the choice not to go ahead with 
the recommendation.
I have considered Mr Ss additional points but I have seen  nothing  to warrant  upholding his 
complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8188082