K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has declined their home  
insurance claim for dry rot.  
All references to Aviva  include its agents.
background
In November 2017, Mr and Mrs J noticed red dust on their home floor.  This was similar  to a 
problem experienced by their neighbours when they had issues previously  arising from dry 
rot. So in April 2018, they decided to take off some of the floorboards to inspect the area. 
Upon inspection they found  that their property too was affected  by dry rot.
Mr and Mrs J treated  the dry rot and replaced  the damaged boards themselves. This cost 
them £1,500. They made a claim on their policy with Aviva but their claim was turned down. 
Aviva said that dry rot is excluded under Mr and Mrs Js policy. 
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy  with this so they brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and she was of the opinion that dry rot is not 
covered under Mr and Mrs Js policy. She explained  that for their complaint to be upheld, 
Mr and Mrs J would  have to show the dry rot was caused by an insured  event  which is 
covered by their insurance policy.   
Mr and Mrs J disagreed  with the investigator and said they would like Aviva  to make a 
contribution to the cost of the repairs they have undertaken  as a gesture of goodwill.  
So the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Not all damage will be covered by a home insurance policy.  Only specific, defined  insured 
events set out in the policy will be covered. The onus is on the policyholder  to show that an 
insured event most likely  caused the damage. 
Mr and Mrs Js policy covers damage caused  by insured events such as for example fire, 
storm, flood or escape of water;  but dry rot is not an insured event.
I know Mr and Mrs J have mentioned various reasons that couldve caused the dry rot; for 
example a farm that is nearby, a soak away they made in 1973  or that it just spread from 
their neighbours. But on balance  of probabilities,  I dont  think Mr and Mrs J have shown its 
likely an insured event  under  their policy has caused  the damage.  So I dont think Aviva  has 
been unfair or unreasonable  when it turned down their claim because Mr and Mrs J have not 
shown that a defined insured event set out in their policy most likely caused the damage.
Aviva, when  rejecting Mr and Mrs Js claim,  has also relied on a general  exclusion in the 
policy which  says that dry rot is not covered.  So even if Mr and Mrs J did show  that a defined 
insured event under their policy was the reason for the dry rot, I think  its likely Aviva 
Ref: DRN87591782wouldve been able to rely on the exclusion as it is clearly set out in Mr and Mrs Js policy, 
and this is an exclusion commonly  found  in most home insurance policies on the market.  
Mr and Mrs J say they understand dry rot is not covered  by their insurance policy.  But they 
feel Aviva  should compensate them  for the repairs to the damage,  at least  in part, as a 
gesture of goodwill. But I dont think the claim is covered under the terms and conditions of 
Mr and Mrs Js policy so it wouldnt be fair in the circumstances for me to ask Aviva to pay 
any contribution to them. So whilst I realise  that Mr and Mrs J find themselves in a difficult  
situation and my decision will come  as a disappointment to them, Im not asking Aviva  to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019. 
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8759178