K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that about the lending that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) made to him. This 
complaint deals with a loan.
background
Mr C said that he was given bad advice by BoS about consolidating his debts, then allowed 
to borrow again.  He has complained to our service  about a mortgage,  a loan, a credit  card 
account and an overdraft. He wants BoS to accept that it gave him bad advice, and to pay 
him compensation. 
Mr C has told us about difficulties with his personal and family circumstances, which mean  
that he is facing  a likely reduction in his income.  He has told BoS about  these problems, and 
in response it has brought his existing debts  in house. It says that it wont  involve agents in 
collecting on these debts  in future. It also froze the charges  on his current  account in July 
2018, and it said it would  like him to set up a repayment agreement.   
In addition, Mr C has told BoS that he has a gambling addiction. He said hed told BoS about 
that in 2010, when he went  into a branch to extend his mortgage, so he thought it shouldve 
taken that into account  when he asked  it to loan him more money. He said that the lending 
that BoS had made had only fuelled  this addiction, and he thought that BoS was partly  
responsible for that. 
BoS said it didnt  think Mr C had told it that he had a gambling addiction  before 2018. It said 
that it doesnt monitor its customers accounts  to see what they are spending their money on. 
But BoS said that it had lent Mr C some money,  through a loan, in 2014. It thought that this 
loan was intended to pay off his credit card, and his overdraft. But it hadnt reduced  his 
overdraft or his credit card limit then. BoS said that when Mr C started to use his overdraft 
and his credit card again, the total amount of lending he then had may have become 
unaffordable for him as a result. 
So BoS did something about  that. It said that it would refund all the overdraft and credit card 
charges it had applied to Mr Cs current account and credit card account since  July 2014. 
Separately, it had also offered to refund just the overdraft  fees.  That meant  that BoS was 
actually refunding  £418.83 more than Mr C had been charged.  But when it realised that, it 
said that it would pay all the money  it had offered him. 
BoS used some of the refund to repay all of Mr Cs credit card borrowing, and it closed his 
card account. It used the rest to repay  part of Mr Cs overdraft, and it reduced his overdraft 
limit at the same time. 
BoS said that Mr Cs current account  is in arrears,  and it will still take recovery action on the 
remaining amount  that he owes. 
BoS also told us that it had made  earlier loans to Mr C, but it thought  that it was too late for 
him to complain about those now.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that BoS had lent Mr C £15,000  in July 
2014, but he said that BoS had checked,  and the lending was affordable for Mr C at that 
time. Our investigator said that hed looked at the figures too, and he thought that the loan 
Ref: DRN84920332payment was within Mr Cs budget and affordable at the time. Our investigator said he 
wasnt aware of any negative data on Mr Cs credit file that would suggest BoS shouldnt 
have made  the loan at that time. 
Our investigator said hed also looked  at Mr Cs bank statements,  and from December 2013,  
for the majority of the time, Mr C was in credit.  Hed used a significant amount of his 
overdraft from May 2014, but the purpose of the July loan was partly to clear  that overdraft,  
so he couldnt  say that BoS had done something  wrong. 
Our investigator said that hed looked at the payment history on the loan too, and Mr C had 
only missed one payment  in the first two years after the loan was made. Our investigator 
said that this suggested  that the loan was affordable for a considerable amount of time after 
it was taken out. 
Our investigator said that he couldnt  see any evidence that Mr C had told BoS about  his 
gambling addiction  before 2018. So he couldnt  say that BoS had done anything  wrong.  
Mr C didnt agree with that. He said that he didnt  believe  that his expenditure was as low as 
BoS said in July 2014. Our service had sent him the income and expenditure details that 
have been shared with us, and he said that he didnt accept that this was right. He said that 
his July 2014 bank statement shows that his expenditure was much more  than this. 
Mr C wanted an ombudsman to consider  his complaint, so it was passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons. 
Mr C told us that he had taken a number of loans out with BoS. Our service has explained to 
Mr C that we cant consider all of the loans that BoS has made to him, as part of this 
complaint. Its the loan made to Mr C in June  2014 that forms the basis  of this complaint. 
Ive asked BoS whether it has any records of Mr C telling  it that he had a gambling problem 
before 2018. It says it doesnt. And I havent been able to identify any evidence that Mr C did 
tell it this earlier. But BoS has now shared with our service the statements from a cardcash 
account, which over the six years  preceding  this complaint seems  to have been used almost 
exclusively for gambling transactions. Although BoS says it doesnt  micromanage its 
customers accounts, it would be difficult for me to conclude both that BoS wasnt aware  that 
Mr C was spending substantial sums  in this way, and that it shouldnt  have  been  aware  of 
that. 
However, BoS has also said that gambling is a legal  and legitimate form of entertainment.  I 
dont think that BoS shouldve  refused to lend to Mr C, solely  because  it could  see that he 
was spending  money on gambling  transactions.
I can see that Mr C has mentioned when talking to BoS about  the lending  it made  to him, 
that he has previous  had arrears, defaults,  and two attempts to repossess his home. I dont 
know when those problems happened. I can see that Mr C had problems repaying debts 
Ref: DRN84920333after 2015, but I dont have evidence  to suggest  that he was having financial difficulties 
before this.
So I asked  Mr C if he would share with our service  his full credit file, so I could consider his 
overall borrowing  position at the relevant time,  when I looked  at each decision that BoS had 
made to lend him money.  Mr C has sent us an overview of his credit file, but not the full file. 
So I dont  have the detail which would allow me to see his overall credit position  when he 
made lending  applications to BoS. 
Our service has explained to Mr C that without this, we wouldnt be able to double-check 
whether BoS took account of the wider picture when it lent him money.  Mr C has asked us to 
go ahead  and make  a decision on the basis of the evidence we have, so I will do that.
BoS has shown  us the calculations it did for lending to Mr C. That shows  that it thought  that 
the loan it made to Mr C in July 2014  was affordable. Mr C says it wasnt. Hes listed a 
number of outgoings, which he says BoS didnt take account of when it worked out whether 
he could afford the loan.  
The notes from the time say that this loan was intended to pay off Mr Cs other  borrowing 
with BoS and elsewhere. So it seems  as if BoS thought that Mr C was going to use the 
money to clear his other debts. Because of that, when it checked if he could  afford to pay 
this loan back, it assumed that he wouldnt be paying any of his other lending  off at the same 
time. So it didnt allow  for those payments  when  it worked out how much he could afford to 
pay towards the loan.  
The way that BoS worked  out if Mr C could afford this loan was to take some information on 
his monthly payments for things like his mortgage and of course this loan itself,  and then to 
see how much was left after that. It then applies  a threshold amount, which  is what it thinks  
that Mr C will need to spend on regular monthly expenses. If Mr C has money left after that, 
then it thinks the loan is affordable for him. I think that is a reasonable way for BoS to assess 
affordability. And when BoS did that, it thought that Mr Cs loan was affordable. 
That means that BoS didnt consider the actual bills that Mr C was paying at the time. 
Instead of adding those all up separately, it used this threshold amount.  That may be why 
Mr C thinks that there was regular spending  on his account that BoS hadnt  taken  into 
account.
Ive also looked  at what Mr C was actually spending  at the time, and it looks to me as if Mr C 
wouldve had some money left over after his regular bills were paid, if he had paid off the 
other lending  with this loan.  I know  that Mr C says that this extra money  went  for 
housekeeping, and other expenses. But it does look like there wouldve been some money 
left for those expenses. I wouldnt substitute  my decision for that of BoS. But, having looked 
at the figures  myself, I dont think that I can say that this lending was clearly unaffordable,  
based on Mr Cs actual  expenditure  at the time.
Ive considered carefully what BoS did when it made a loan to Mr C in July 2014, and I dont 
think that BoS made a mistake when it lent Mr C this money.  
I do think that BoS shouldve reduced or removed  Mr Cs overdraft at the time that this loan 
was made,  and that it should also have either reduced his credit limit or closed his credit  
card account. But I think that BoS has already done enough to make up for what  went  wrong 
there. So I dont think  that this complaint  should be upheld.
Ref: DRN84920334my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8492033