K820x#14complaint
Mr H has said that Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Gold  packaged  bank account.  
Mr H says that when he became  an employee of the bank, he was told that hed need to 
upgrade his student account to a fee paid account.
background
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint already. They  did not think that the 
Gold account was mis-sold. Mr H did not agree  with this and requested  that his complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Hs complaint. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr H was given a clear  choice in taking the packaged  
accounts. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is more likely than not to have happened,  having  weighed up what both Mr H 
and Lloyds have  been able to provide  me with.
Mr H says that he received a letter of employment from Lloyds and this prompted him, when 
in a branch, to query whether his student  account would be a suitable account to have  his 
salary paid into. Mr H has said that he was told that he had to change  from his student 
account to a paid for account.  Whereas Lloyds says that it was not a condition  of 
employment to have fee-paying account  and that Mr H was able to retain his fee-free Classic 
account.
I can see that Mr H did not hold a student account  at the time of the Gold  account  upgrade.  
And in fact hed held a fee free classic account  for some months  prior to the upgrade.  So I 
think that he would have reasonably been  aware the free accounts  were available and an 
option for him. I also do not think it would be likely that, whilst holding  a classic account  
(essentially a standard fee free current account), he would query whether this account would 
have been suitable for having a salary paid into as there would be no reason to do so. Given 
this I am not persuaded that Mr Hs version  of events  is more likely than not to have 
happened. I think overall that Mr H chose to take out the account having been given a 
choice.
Mr H and Lloyds have  said that the Gold account was recommended  to him. At the time the 
account was taken out, the Gold account came with worldwide travel  insurance, breakdown  
cover and mobile phone  insurance. Mr H, at the time the account was taken out, did drive, 
owned a mobile  phone and there  is evidence to suggest that he did travel. 
Mr H has said that he had his own mobile  phone insurance, had his own breakdown  cover  
and did not travel apart from business  related travel. I can see though that he did register  
two handsets under the mobile phone insurance and I cant see why he could not use the 
breakdown cover that came with the account  if he chose to do so. In relation to not traveling 
Ref: DRN80793032I can see transactions to travel agencies and holiday companies  which  suggest  it is likely 
that he did travel recreationally. So overall I think that Lloyds recommendation of the Gold  
account was not unreasonable, based on Mr Hs circumstances at the time of the sale.
Mr H says that when he worked overseas for Lloyds, it should have identified  that the 
account was not suitable  for him as there were some benefits that he could not use. But 
Mr H seems to have  been aware of this at the time, and he chose  to keep the Gold account 
anyway, so I dont  think hed have acted any differently had Lloyds place more emphasis on 
this during the sale of the account. Ultimately it was up to Mr H to decide whether he wished 
to keep the account or downgrade it. And I think that he would have reasonably  known that 
free accounts were  available  to him, for the reasons set out above.
Mr H may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, think he shouldnt  have upgraded. And I can 
see that Mr Hs circumstances did change  which meant that the account  may not have  been  
as useful to him as it could have been. And given what he mightve read or heard  about 
packaged bank  accounts, I can understand why he believes  his Gold  account might  have 
been mis-sold. But I think its most likely  Mr H chose to take the Gold  account knowing he 
didnt have to have it. And while  he may now believe the account  hasnt  proved value for 
money, Ive not seen  enough here to make me think that Lloyds misled  him. So I want  to 
reassure Mr H that having looked at all the information provided  and thought about 
everything hes said, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Gold account to him. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8079303