K821x#15complaint
Miss S and Mr M complain about  how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled  a claim 
made on their motor insurance policy. Mr M is a named driver on Miss Ss policy.  
background
Mr M was involved in an accident with another car. He didnt notice any impact at the time 
and learned of it when Admiral was notified  by the other driver.  Mr M was unhappy with how 
Admiral settled liability, and its failure  to obtain a statement  from an eyewitness. 
After the accident,  Miss S noticed a problem with the folding roof of her car, which  she 
believed was caused by the accident.  Shes unhappy with Admirals  lack of communication 
about this, and failure to arrange the diagnostics check on the roof recommended  by an 
engineer. Admiral paid Miss S £395 in compensation  for errors in its claim handling, but she 
doesnt feel this is enough given the circumstances of the case.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. Admiral hadnt 
obtained the witness statement despite  saying it would. But he didnt think this would affect 
its decision about liability in any case.  So he thought Admiral  had accepted liability for the 
accident in keeping with the policy terms and conditions.
But the investigator thought Admiral should pay for a diagnostic inspection  from a dealership 
of the problems with the cars  roof, as recommended  by an independent  engineer. He 
thought it had told Miss S it would do this. But it had changed its mind and instead accepted 
a second engineers view that the problem wasnt related  to the accident.  
The investigator thought that if the diagnostic report showed that the problem  was accident-
related, then Admiral  should pay for the repair. And he thought  Admiral  should pay Miss S 
£105 further compensation for the stress and trouble its handling of the claim had caused 
her. 
Miss S replied  that she accepted the investigators  view. But Admiral said it was for Miss S to 
pay for the further  diagnostic assessment at a dealers garage.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S says that she accepts the investigators  decision in regard to liability for the accident. 
I can see that there delays in the claim due to Admiral not pursuing the witness  as it said it 
would. And I can see that there were two different  versions of events. 
I think the investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was 
responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the courts.  Instead, our role in 
complaints of this nature  is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle 
the claim.  Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy? And has it treated  Miss S the same  as someone else in her position. 
Ref: DRN81481562I think Admiral  considered the versions of events,  the road layout  and the damage to the 
cars. It was concerned  that Miss S initially said she hadnt been involved in an accident. It 
thought the damage caused supported the other  drivers version of events. And it thought  
Miss Ss driving at the time might lead a court to find her at least partly  at fault. 
So I think in this context  Admiral reasonably decided that the inconsistencies in statements 
would likely  be held against  Miss S. And so the witness statement would most likely not have 
made a difference to the outcome. And so I think it reasonably decided to accept liability,  as 
its entitled to do by the policy terms and conditions. I can see that Admiral paid Miss S 
compensation, the amount of her policy excess,  as it didnt obtain the witness  statement as it 
said it would. I think this was fair and reasonable.
Miss S was also unhappy that Admiral hadnt repaired the roof of her car. She said it was 
working fine before the accident  and she noticed it wasnt  working a few weeks later. But 
Admiral says that this wouldnt have been damaged by the light impact  of the accident. 
We dont assess whether or how damage  to a vehicle would be caused  as this is a matter for 
the experts in these  situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these  
complaints is to determine whether  an insurance  company has considered all the available  
evidence and whether it can justify its decision  to not pay for additional repairs.
From what  I can see, Admiral paid for two contradictory reports  from independent engineers  
about the roof. The first engineers report said a full diagnostic would be needed from a main  
dealer, which  would enable him to say if the damage was accident-related or due to wear 
and tear. 
A basic diagnostic report  from a main dealer was obtained and Admiral  sent this to its 
independent engineers for review. A second report  was then made by a different  engineer.  
This engineer said he didnt think the roof issue was related to the accident, due to the 
light/moderate nature of the impact sustained  to the rear bumper. 
He said the diagnostic made  by the main  dealer  was unable to determine  the cause of fault,  
and this would require further stripping to determine.  He said Miss S would need  to pay for 
this, and Admiral should only cover  the repairs if it could be shown beyond  reasonable doubt 
the fault was as a result  of the impact.
Miss S told Admiral  she was unhappy  about being asked to pay for the further  diagnostic.  On 
two separate calls,  Admirals staff agreed it would pay for the further diagnostic  and would 
contact the main dealer to authorise  this. But this didnt happen.
Admiral now says it wont agree to pay for the further diagnostic  by the main dealer. It says it 
is relying on the opinion of the second engineer, and its staff members were wrong to agree 
to pay for the diagnostics.
But I dont think this is fair and reasonable. I see no reason  why the second report  should  be 
preferred over the first; nor why it was necessary to go back and obtain  the second  report 
before the full diagnostic was carried out. The second engineer had no new information 
compared to the first. The first engineer was aware of the nature of the impact  and the 
damage to the bumper,  and still felt a diagnostic was needed.  
Ref: DRN81481563So the full diagnostic by the main dealer hasnt been completed,  as Admiral told Miss S it 
would be. And so I cant say that Admiral  has justified its decision not to pay for the repairs 
to the roof. 
To resolve  the situation,  I agree with the investigators recommendation that Admiral should  
pay for the further  diagnostic work  on the roof by the main dealer. Then, the results should 
be sent back to the independent engineer who completed the first report  for review. If the 
engineer thinks  the damage is accident  related, Admiral should accept the claim for repairs.  
In the meantime, because responsibility  for the repairs hasnt been established by an expert, 
Miss S has been without  the enjoyment  of her cars folding roof. She and Mr M have had to 
make calls to Admiral  to try and resolve the situation. The investigator  recommended  that 
Admiral should pay Miss S £105  further compensation (£500 in total)  for her trouble and 
inconvenience. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what  Id require in similar 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.Arrange and pay for the cost of the full diagnostic  on the roof at a main  dealers  and send 
the resulting report  to the independent engineer for review. If the engineer decides that 
the damage is accident-related, then Admiral should  pay for its repair. 
2.Pay Miss S £105 further compensation (£500 in total) for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2021.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8148156