K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy about the service  she received  from British  Gas Insurance Limited  when 
she had a water leak at her home.
background
Miss M had home emergency cover with British Gas. On 15 November 2017 she called it 
because there was water leaking from her loft. British Gas transferred her call to its plumbing 
sub-contractor, so it could  book an emergency  appointment. But Miss M says her calls just 
rang out and then cut off. So after about  forty minutes she called British Gas back. It 
apologised but said shed need  to speak directly to its sub-contractor, so it gave her the 
subcontractors direct number to call. But it seems  Miss M was still not able to speak with 
anyone at the sub-contractor that evening.
Miss M spoke to British  Gas very early  the next morning  while  she was at the airport,  as she 
was going on holiday. Miss M says the agent  she spoke to arranged  for an engineer to visit 
her home that same day. Since she would be away, Miss M asked  a family member to be at 
her home to meet the engineer. The next day Miss Ms family member told her the engineer  
hadnt turned up and that British Gas hadnt  been  in touch. 
Miss M returned from holiday and on 20 November 2017 she made  several phone calls to 
British Gas and its sub-contractor. As a result an engineer visited  her home that same  day to 
assess the problem,  and they returned the next day to carry out repairs.
Miss M is unhappy with the service British  Gas gave her on the telephone and when the 
engineer failed to visit on 16 November 2017. And she thinks there  would have been  less 
damage to her home  if the engineer had visited then as agreed. Miss M has explained that 
this meant  she was caused inconvenience  and worry  about  her property, including when she 
was on holiday.  And she ended  up claiming for the damage on her home insurance and 
paying a £350 excess.
So she complained to British Gas. It said it wasnt able to find and listen  to a recording of 
Miss Ms call on 16 November 2017 as it hadnt  been logged, perhaps  due to a system error. 
For this and the difficulty she had in getting  through to its subcontractor, British Gas offered 
Miss M £110 compensation. It also offered her a further £65 for rearranging her annual boiler 
service appointment  at short  notice, though Miss M hasnt complained to us about this. 
Miss M was still unhappy so she contacted  us. The investigator who looked into things 
thought British Gas should pay Miss M a further £90 compensation to more fairly  reflect  the 
unnecessary inconvenience and worry it had caused her when she had a leak.  
British Gas disagreed,  as it didnt think further compensation was warranted in the 
circumstances. 
I issued my provisional decision on 7 January 2019 and I said as follows.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  
Miss Ms complaint and award  additional compensation.
Ref: DRN83851122In considering Miss Ms complaint, Ive firstly thought  about  the customer service she 
received when she rang for help with the leak. In her first call to British Gas I can hear shes  
worried and looking for urgent  help as her bedroom  floor is swimming in water, which is 
dripping down  to her lounge below. British Gas explains she needs  to arrange an 
appointment directly  with its sub-contractor, and it transfers her through.
In Miss Ms second call to British  Gas its clear shes having  trouble getting through  to the 
subcontractor, and is very worried and frustrated. She also says she now has no water and 
no heating, as shes turned the water  off. British Gas apologises, explains again that she 
needs to speak to its sub-contractor  and gives her their direct  number. 
Im satisfied Miss M spoke to British Gas again  the next day, 16 November 2017, as Ive 
seen this call on her itemised phone bill. But British Gas doesnt have a record  of the call, so 
cant provide a recording. I cant be sure exactly what  was discussed. But the arrangements 
she made for a family member to be at her home is consistent with a visit being agreed on 
16 November 2017. So I think  its likely  thats  what was discussed and agreed in the call. 
And Im satisfied no-one  from British Gas turned up on this date, despite Miss M arranging 
for a family member to be there. . 
It follows from what Ive said that I think British Gas provided Miss M with very poor customer 
service in the period immediately following her emergency. And British Gas itself accepts 
Miss M was inconvenienced  by having  to call so many  times and the missed  appointment. 
But I also think it caused her unnecessary  distress.  I say this because in what was clearly an 
emergency, under this kind of policy Id expect British Gas to arrange  an engineer to attend 
in a matter of hours, not days.  And when  Miss M couldnt get through  to the sub-contractor,  
Id expect British  Gas to at least suggest  that Miss M should arrange for her own plumber to 
visit for which it could reimburse  her later. 
But it didnt do either of those things and Im satisfied this left Miss M feeling distressed over 
the course of about five days. And she clearly  also felt frustrated,  helpless  and worried about 
what state her property would end up in. And these  concerns marred Miss Ms enjoyment of 
her holiday.  Had British Gas sent an engineer within hours, rather  than days, she wouldnt 
have been caused this unnecessary distress. So I think British Gas should pay a significant 
amount of compensation for this and Ill return to this again later. 
The second  thing Ive thought about when considering  this complaint is whether there would 
have been less damage to Miss Ms home  if British Gas had visited  when  it said it would on 
16 November 2017. In her first call Miss M tells British Gas shes  turned off the stopcock, 
which would have turned  off the mains water  supply to her home.  But the job notes from 
British Gas show the water tank in Miss Ms loft was still full of water and that the engineer 
fixed the problem  by removing pipework from the loft and blanking  off existing supply fittings.
Based on this, Miss M turning off the mains water supply to her home is unlikely to have 
made much difference to a leak coming  from an already full tank in her loft. Therefore, its 
likely the leak continued for quite a while. So I think that if British Gas had visited on 
16 November 2017 as it said it would, there would probably have been a lot less damage 
from the leak.
This means  I need  to consider if this is why Miss M needed to make a claim on her home  
insurance. Ive heard  that in her first call to British Gas, Miss M says a lot of water  has 
already come through  her bedroom  ceiling and started going through another ceiling to the 
lounge below. On that basis, I think its likely the leak caused enough damage right from the 
Ref: DRN83851123start so that Miss M was always going to have to make a claim on her home insurance and 
pay the £350 excess. So it wouldnt be fair for me to ask British Gas to cover the £350 
excess Miss M had to pay.
But because British  Gas didnt visit as quickly as it should have, Miss M needed  to make a 
higher claim than she otherwise would have. But based on her insurers  scope  of work, 
I dont think it was significantly higher. Im satisfied Miss M hasnt suffered a financial loss 
because of this. Nevertheless, knowing her claim was higher than it needed to be would still 
be distressing.
Taking everything into consideration, I think that while Miss M was always going to need  to 
make a claim on her home insurance,  the poor customer  service  British Gas gave her when 
she asked for help with a leak caused her a great  deal of unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience. And I dont think the total of £200  suggested by the investigator  is enough  to 
fully reflect  this. Instead, I think £500  is appropriate and produces a fair and reasonable 
outcome in this case.
Miss M agreed  with my provisional  decision,  but British Gas didnt provide any comments  or 
further evidence.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Miss M has accepted my decision and British Gas hasnt provided  any further 
information, I see no reason to alter my view about  what a fair and reasonable outcome is in 
this case. 
Therefore Im upholding  Miss Ms complaint and asking British  Gas to pay her £500  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and also above, I uphold this complaint. 
British Gas Insurance Limited should pay £500 compensation to Miss M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8385112