K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Close Brothers  Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
background
In February 2018  Mr H bought a second hand  car from a dealer I will call S. It was some 12 
years old and had done  53,000 miles. It was funded by a conditional sale agreement and a 
deposit of £1,000. Mr H encountered issues with the car and it was taken back  by S for 
repair. It had the car for some six weeks and replaced the clutch. However, this repair failed.  
The dual mass flywheel also needed to be replaced. On collecting the car Mr H was 
informed the battery  was flat but just needed charging.
Mr H has said that a few days later the car had to be jump started, and it was fine for five 
minutes but then broke down. It had to be repaired by a local garage at a cost of £462.
By May Mr H says there were yet further  faults with a warning light coming on and the car 
shook when travelling  at more than 40 miles per hour. The car was taken to S and it 
identified a valve had failed. The car needed  two new discs  with pads and a brake calliper. 
The transfer box also had failed. The car was collected by Mr H in early July, though  it was 
ready prior to this. 
In May Mr H complained to Close Brothers,  but it said that he had agreed to the repairs  and 
so he wasnt entitled to reject it. He brought his complaint to this service  where  it was 
considered by one of our adjudicators. 
He said it was reasonable to expect the car to function without any major  issue  for a 
reasonable period of time.  However,  in this case, Mr H experienced faults with major 
components of the car within weeks of entering  into his agreement. Therefore he didnt think  
it was fit for purpose. He noted Close Brothers said as Mr H had accepted to repair the car 
he gave up his right to reject it. Our adjudicator didnt agree and said consumers had a right 
to reject within 30 days and they could also reject  the goods  later if an initial repair was 
unsuccessful.
He concluded  the repairs werent satisfactory and so he thought  Mr H should be allowed to 
reject the car. Mr H agreed,  but Close Brothers  didnt. It said that it accepted the car wasnt  
supplied in a good condition, but for rejection to take place it needed to demonstrate that the 
repairs had been  carried out without Mr Hs permission. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the conditional  sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brothers is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
Ref: DRN82032692The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is accepted by all that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale.  Mr H established 
that within six months of purchase. The car was taken back to S and it carried  out partial 
repairs which turned  out to be unsatisfactory. I gather the clutch fell out if the car when being  
test driven. Further work was needed to the clutch mechanism which wasnt  carried  out by S. 
Shortly after this further faults developed which hadnt been picked up by S and it was clear  
that the car still wasnt fit for purpose. Under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the seller has 
the right to repair the goods, but it has only one chance. In this case the seller has had 
numerous opportunities to carry out repairs and in May it still wasnt  fit for purpose.
In short  each time the car was returned  with faults  still present. In May the car had an engine 
warning light come on and it shook severely  when driven at over 40 miles  per hour. S had 
plenty of opportunity  to repair  the car to an acceptable standard and it didnt do so and 
therefore I consider  it only fair and reasonable that Mr H be allowed to reject  the car. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Close Brothers  to:
allow Mr H to reject the car at no further  costs  to him.
refund  the £1,000 deposit  and pay 8% simple interest  from the date it was paid until it 
is repaid.
reimburse one months  payment for the car being in the garage for various periods.
pay Mr H £200 compensation for inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8203269