K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage  under a hire purchase agreement.  
background
In 2014, Mr M acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement  from BMWFS.  The total 
repayable under the agreement was £38,402.41. Mr M was required to make an advance 
payment of £2,250, 47 monthly  payments of £486.78 and there was a final optional  payment 
of £13,273.75 if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr M had the right to terminate the agreement  at any time before 
the final payment  was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£19,201.21.
In 2017, Mr M chose to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early. 
After Mr M handed the car back, BMWFS  later charged him a further £3,467.99 as he had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr M had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 32,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS  could 
charge him 8.21 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance  by. It said that in the 
event he terminated  the agreement early,  the mileage allowance  would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mr M didnt  think  this charge was enforceable.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that BMWFS  
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She also found that the 
terms of the agreement were clear  around  the possibility of an excess mileage charge being  
payable on voluntary termination.
In summary,  she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination.  
In brief, on termination  a consumer  is liable to pay at least half of the total  price of 
the agreement.  Total  price  is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable  under 
the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items  that are payable as 
compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement  are in addition to any liability  for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Ms agreement was clear  that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
Ref: DRN80044702The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Ms accrued  liability under S100 therefore included  
paying an additional amount of £3,467.99.
The credit  agreement  set out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, she was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. She was therefore satisfied it 
was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional  amount. 
However, she advised Mr M that BMWFS  had agreed to waive  interest of £69.98 it had 
previously charged on the £3,467.99 excess mileage charge.
Mr M disagreed, but the investigator  wasnt  persuaded to change her mind.  Therefore, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed  to take it on board and think  about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Secondly, I would add that where  the information  Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some  of its here, Ive to base my decision  on the balance of probabilities.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mr M use of the car for the duration  of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£13,273.75. While Mr M was entitled  to use the car, that use was subject to certain 
conditions, such as maintaining and taking  care of the car and only driving  a maximum 
mileage each year and overall  throughout the lifetime of the agreement.  The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mr M not meet those requirements.
Mr M exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances,  voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay anything more.  
But this is dependent on, amongst other  things, how much  has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid,  the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges  are due. 
In this case Mr M accepts that he was required to pay at least £13,273.75  to voluntary 
terminate the agreement.  But he disputes  the excess mileage charge of £3,467.99 that has 
been added  on top of this figure. 
Ref: DRN80044703The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mr Ms hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in 
his case, that was £13,273.75.  Various sections of the agreement Mr M had with BMWFS  
also referred to the liability on early  termination, including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability.
Whether or not its fair for a lender to apply  the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered  into. In other  words,  what  Ive 
to decide is, has the agreement  been  constructed in a way as to allow  the charging for 
excess mileage without  contravening what  is set out in the CCA regarding  voluntary 
termination? In Mr Ms specific  case,  I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination arent affected by the termination.  What this means is that Mr M is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Ms hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will apply in proportion to the reduced period of hire and that your  
obligation to pay any excess  mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. 
Im satisfied Mr Ms agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges 
accrue. 
The agreement also has a sectioned headed  Termination: your rights. This section contains  
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary  
sets out that so long as Mr M has paid at least half the total amount payable  under the 
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about  whether this conflicts  with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those  that explain charges for exceeding  
the mileage might apply.  
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think  the agreement  is 
either unclear or misleading concerning  the charges for excess  mileage. I think  it explains 
that the excess mileage  charge can be applied in addition to other  charges for voluntary  
termination. I dont  therefore consider that the way this specific  agreement  has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr M.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mr M is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
Now I dont dispute that Mr M might not have been  charged for excess mileage  when he 
voluntarily terminated  previous  agreements with BMWFS (on the same terms as the 
agreement subject to this complaint). But this in itself doesnt prevent BMWFS from charging 
for excess mileage here. Put another  way, BMWFS previous decisions not to charge  for 
excess mileage doesnt bind it not to do so in the future,  nor does it set  to use Mr Ms own 
words  a precedent.
Ref: DRN80044704I can also see that Mr M says that prior to voluntary terminating his agreement he asked the 
dealership (through whom  he was acquiring  a new  car that wasnt  a BMW) whether  he 
would be charged  for excess  mileage  on voluntarily terminating the agreement subject to this 
complaint. And he says it responded  to say: probably not as your taking out another finance 
deal with them .
Now I cant see why Mr M would have asked  the dealership what he says he did if he had 
never been charged excess  mileage on voluntarily terminating previous agreements. But 
even if I was to accept that he did, the dealership saying probably  not isnt the same as 
saying no you wont. I also think that if being  charged for excess  mileage was material to 
Mr Ms decision in acquiring a new car, being  advised that he probably wouldnt be charged 
could and should have prompted him to have  asked the same  question of BMWFS for 
clarification and certainty.
So overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2021.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8004470