K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold  them  a 
packaged bank  account in 1998.  They paid a monthly fee for the account which provided 
several benefits in return.
background
Mr and Mrs Ls account history is as follows:
their account  was opened  as a fee-free account in 1984
it was upgraded to an Additions packaged account in May 1998
it was upgraded again to an Additions  Active packaged account in January 2009
this account was migrated* to a Barclays Bank Account with added Travel  Pack and 
Tech Pack in January  2017.
Weve already explained that were not able to look into the part of the complaint about the 
sale of the Additions  Active account,  as the complaint was made too late. 
* A migration took place when Barclays changed the range of products it offered. In January 
2017 Mr and Mrs Ls account was changed to the nearest  available  package when the 
Additions Active account was no longer available. Mr and Mrs L also havent  complained  
about the migration, so I havent considered that as part of my decision.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays mis-sold the Additions account to Mr and 
Mrs L and didnt recommend that Barclays should  pay them  any compensation. Mr and 
Mrs L didnt agree so they asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Ls complaint a lot of thought, I dont  think  the Additions account was 
mis-sold to them. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs L were given a fair choice when they took 
their packaged bank account.
In their complaint  Mr and Mrs L explained that the account was sold to them during a phone 
call, when Barclays rang them. They say the call was assumptive in nature and they felt 
they had to agree to it.
Ref: DRN82739242Mr and Mrs L had held a fee-free account with Barclays for over 14 years when they first 
upgraded their account. And whilst  Ive thought about what  theyve said, I havent been told 
enough to persuade me that they were  left with no other option but to change their account; 
or effectively, that they didnt have a choice. I do understand that sometimes  people  find it 
hard to decline things theyre  offered,  but that doesnt mean they were forced into it. Im also 
mindful that Mr and Mrs L kept the Additions  account  which they say they werent  given an 
option about taking  for over ten years. I think its unlikely theyd have done that if they 
didnt want it.
Having considered everything, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs L were  aware  they had 
a choice about whether to upgrade their account or not, and chose to upgrade because 
something about the account appealed to them.
I havent seen  enough to make me think that Barclays  personally recommended  the 
Additions account to Mr and Mrs L. Although theyve said it did, theyve also said that it didnt 
check whether they qualified  for the benefits, but instead told them about the benefits and 
how good the account was. With this in mind,  Barclays  didnt have to check  if the account 
was suitable for them  by taking into account  their personal circumstances.
Barclays had to give Mr and Mrs L enough  clear information about the Additions account  for 
them to decide  if they wanted it. 
Its fair to say that at the time they upgraded, in 1998, the benefits of the Additions  account 
were somewhat limited.  But one of its main features was a fee-free overdraft,  with the first 
£100 also interest-free.
Like our adjudicator, I think that Mr and Mrs L were probably interested  in this benefit, and 
chose to upgrade  because  of it. I can see from their account transactions  that they already 
had an agreed  overdraft limit in place, which they were charged £5 per month for using. By 
upgrading to the Additions account,  they paid the Additions account fee of £5 per month, but 
the overdraft usage  fee was waived, and they also benefited from the first £100  being 
interest-free. 
Having considered the way Mr and Mrs L used their overdraft, which was regularly and in 
most months  after the sale,  I think the overdraft benefit was useful to them,  and likely 
something that appealed  to them. I do appreciate Mr and Mrs L now say that they didnt 
know about this benefit  but it was in place, and given that the sale took place over 20 
years ago, I think its likely  that they did know about  it at the time.
Mr and Mrs L also say they didnt qualify for, or need, several  of the insurance  benefits that 
came with the Additions account. But at the time it was sold,  it came with very limited  
insurance benefits  such  as purchase protection cover and life assurance cover  of £5,000. I 
cant see why Mr and Mrs L couldnt have used these insurance benefits if theyd wanted or 
needed to. But in any case,  I think they took the account primarily for the overdraft benefit, 
which appears to have been  useful  to them. I understand that they may not have used all the 
accounts benefits, but this in itself doesnt  mean  Barclays mis-sold the account. 
I accept that its possible  Barclays didnt tell Mr and Mrs L everything it should have about  
the Additions account. But I havent seen enough  to make me think that Mr and Mrs L 
wouldnt still have taken  it, even  if Barclays had told them more  about it. 
Ref: DRN82739243I understand that Mr and Mrs L say that the Additions account  upgrade was sold to Mrs L 
only during a telephone  call  and Mr L wasnt told about it. But as joint account  holders,  
Mrs L wouldve been authorised to make  changes to the account without the need for Mr L to 
be informed  much in the same way they were both able to make their own debit card 
transactions or write  their own cheques.  So Barclays hasnt acted unfairly here.
Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs L also say Barclays upheld their complaint and then changed 
its mind,  without giving  any consideration to their feelings. Ive seen the email Barclays  sent 
and I understand  why this wouldve been confusing, as it does clearly say the complaint had 
been upheld. Although  I also note that the section which shouldve told them how much 
theyd be refunded was blank.  I can also see that Barclays acknowledged this error and 
apologised to Mr and Mrs L in a letter after they mentioned it. So whilst I agree this wouldve 
been frustrating  for Mr and Mrs L, Im comfortable that this was an administrative error as 
opposed to Barclays  changing its mind, so Barclays doesnt need to put things right.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs L that Ive looked  at all the information I have about their 
complaint. And Ive thought about everything  theyve said.  But having done  so I dont think  
Barclays mis-sold  the Additions  account to them. So I dont think it owes them any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8273924