K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services  LLP 
(previously known as Portafina LLP) to transfer four personal pension plans (PPP) to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  The funds within the SIPP  were then used to invest  in 
several unregulated  collective investment  schemes  (UCIS).
Mr S is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr S.
background
In 2015, Mr S came into contact with an unregulated introducer who put him in contact with 
an advisory firm (Firm C) who discussed  consolidating his pensions. 
At that time,  Firm C was an appointed representative (AR) of a regulated  business,  Firm S. 
Firm S was authorised by the FCA to provide investment advice, but neither Firm S or Firm C 
were authorised to provide pension transfer  advice. So Firm C introduced Mr S to Portafina 
to advise on his pensions. 
Portafinas fact find and suitability report recorded  that:
Mr Ss circumstances were:
-Mr S was 60 years old, married, in good  health and self-employed  earning £40K 
per year
-He was a homeowner with a property  worth £200,000 with an outstanding 
mortgage of £17,000
-He had savings  / investments  of approximately £35,000
-His monthly expenditure  was £2K and he had monthly disposable income  of 
£1.3K
-The fact find notes  stated: The clients main driver is to consolidate his current 
pension schemes  into one which will simplify the task of trying  to manage and 
understand his pension  planning.  The client will also consider funding when he 
knows if it is in his best interests  to consolidate . Also the client is keen to utilise  a 
phased drawdown  approach rather  than have to purchase an annuity to provide 
an income. He believes  that the phased drawdown would be beneficial  to him as 
he is self employed  and his personal  income  can vary. Return of fund on death  is 
also a Driver for [Mr S] who believes that annuities  are outdated and offer poor 
value for money.
-Although he was 60 years old he did not wish to take any of his pension  benefits 
at that time
Ref: DRN84834572Regarding Mr Ss current plans: 
-Plan 1  PPP with a transfer value of £73K.  Invested in 100% managed fund and 
charges of approximately 0.5% per year. There were alternative  internal funds  
available.
-Plans 2 to 4  PPPs with a combined  transfer  value of approximately  £75K. All 
were invested in unitized with-profits  funds  and the transfer values included the 
final bonus. One plan included a guaranteed growth rate of 4% per year on 80% 
of its fund value  (approximately £48K). The charges were between  0.875% and 
1.5% per year.
-Plan 5  was an ex-employers defined contribution plan with a transfer value  of 
approximately £171K.  It was invested  in a 100%  diversified growth fund with 
charges of approximately 0.2% per year.
Mr Ss objectives were:
-Consolidation
-Potentially higher  investment growth
-Access to a greater  choice of investment funds
-Provide death  benefits 
-Future drawdown
In the suitability letter, Portafina recommended that Mr S transfer plans 1 to 4 to a SIPP for 
the potential of greater benefits  at retirement.  But that he should  keep Plan 5 until Mr S 
wanted to draw benefits. This was because  of its low charges and the solid and consistent 
fund performance.  The justification for recommending a SIPP instead of a Stakeholder 
pension was because  the potential benefits  of transferring to the SIPP were higher. 
Mr Ss attitude to risk was confirmed as Balanced, which was defined  as: 
Balanced investors  typically have moderate levels of knowledge  about  financial matters and 
will pay some  attention  to keeping up to date with financial matters.  They  may have some  
experience of  investment, including investing  in products containing risky assets such  as 
equities and bonds.
In general, balanced investors understand that they have to take investment  risk in order to 
be able to meet their long-term goals. They  are likely to be willing to take risk with at least  
part of their available  assets.
Balanced investors  will usually be prepared to give up a certain  outcome for a gamble 
provided that the potential rewards from the gamble are high enough.  They will usually be 
able to make  up their minds on financial matters  relatively quickly,  but do still suffer from 
some feelings of regret when their decisions  turn out badly.
The intended investment strategy was explained  as: Due to your risk rating of balanced,  
your stated age of retirement and your needs  and objectives we would recommend that you 
invest in certain fund asset classes, however,  [Firm  C] will contact you in due course  to 
discuss the actual  fund investment portfolio. Please  note until this time, your funds  will be 
initially invested in 100% Cash Deposit
Ref: DRN84834573The fees were  confirmed as an initial advice fee of 5% of the total transfer value, of which 2% 
would be paid to Firm C as part of the introducers arrangement. The SIPP itself would 
charge an initial fee of £180 and an ongoing  fee of 0.5%  per year.  It also stated: Overall, this 
strategy may cost more than your existing  arrangement. Whilst the intention is that this will 
be more than compensated  for by the increased  growth of your pension fund this cannot  be 
guaranteed.
The suitability report enclosed a Declaration Form which  Mr S subsequently signed,  which  
included the following statement:  I confirm that I am fully aware  of the charges and fees 
which are detailed in the enclosed suitability  report for the professional services carried  out 
by Portal Financial Services  LLP in facilitating  the release  of my pension. I also confirm that I 
have read and understood the contents  of the Key Facts and Terms of Business documents 
attached, and that this declaration constitutes  full acceptance of the same.
The following  day Firm C sent its own Suitability Report to Mr S. It confirmed that having  
conducted its own risk profiling assessment on Mr S, his attitude to risk was 3 on a scale  of 1 
to 7, and a typical investment portfolio for this would consist of 50% low risk, 40% medium 
risk and 10% high risk funds. However,  the investments it recommended  were 60% low risk, 
20% medium risk and 20% high risk, of which 17% would be in unregulated collective 
investment schemes  (UCIS). Its advice fee would be an initial fee of £300 and a further fee 
of 0.5%  per year for ongoing  advice. Mr S signed  the report  in acceptance of its 
recommendation. 
The next day, Firm C emailed Mr S and stated the following: have  been  informed by 
[Portafina] that they have sent you a pack, please could you let me know  if you have 
received the pack  and responded?
A few days  later a Portafina email stated:  I called the client  on the contact numbers provided 
to chase the application and report we sent,  he confirmed that he has received  it and will be 
having an appointment with [Firm C] today to discuss the report.
Mr S subsequently signed the relevant paperwork to transfer plans 1 to 4 to the SIPP and 
transfer the agency of the SIPP from Portafina  to Firm C, who then invoiced Portafina for its 
agreed 2% introducer fee. Mr S says that Firm C then arranged the following investments:
Unregulated collective investment schemes:
£4,200.00  - Biomass Investments PLC
£3,500.00  - Brisa  Investments PLC
£4,200.00  - Lakeview UK Invest
£4,200.00  - Motion Picture Global
£7,700.00  - Strategic  Residential  Dev
Regulated funds:
£29,555.95 -Newscape 5alpha Advntrs  A
£89,506.83 - Newscape  5alpha Consrvtve  A
In May 2018, Mr S complained to Portafina about the advice he received to transfer.  
Portafina considered  his complaint and concluded that it had provided suitable advice in line 
with Mr Ss circumstances, needs  and objectives  at the time. It said it only provided the 
advice to transfer and it hadnt provided  specific investment advice as this was to be given by 
Firm C.
Ref: DRN84834574Unhappy with Portafinas response  to his complaint, Mr S referred the matter  to our service.  
An adjudicator considered  the matter and concluded  that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. 
She referred  to the regulators alert of 2008  titled: Quality  of advice on pension  switching  
which gave examples of good advice and poor practice. She concluded that the additional 
costs of the advice  were  not justified, in particular because Portafina didnt provide 
investment advice and so didnt demonstrate  how the advice to transfer would add value. 
The adjudicator said that Portafina  should compensate Mr S by comparing the value of the 
SIPP with the notional values of the PPPs had they not been transferred. 
Portafina didnt  accept the adjudicators findings.  In summary it said that: 
It had analysed the performance of the PPPs against the sector  average.  It also 
included Portafina's fee together with the proposed annual management charge 
for the SIPP in the comparison. And it was concluded that Mr S would be better  
off transferring the four pension  plans in question. 
Portafina  carried  out extensive  due diligence  on Firm C and were  satisfied  
that it could  be used  in the advice  process  to both introduce  clients  and 
provide  the investment  advice  for certain  clients.  
Firm C was authorised  and regulated  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority  
(FCA)   which  further  reassured  Portafina  of its suitability.  
Its possible  for one authorised  firm to assess  the transfer  and another  to 
provide  investment  advice.
The risk warning  were  tailored  to Mr S and they were  explicit.  
Further clarification was issued by this service, updating the redress  that the adjudicator has 
proposed. And confirming  that, in order to give suitable advice, Portafina had to consider the 
underlying investments. 
The case  has been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing this, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. Having done 
so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain  why.
Portafina recommended that Mr S transfer his PPPs to a SIPP  but it says that although it 
assessed his attitude to risk it didnt provide advice as to the investments within the SIPP  
because this was being provided  by Firm C. 
Mr S accepted the recommendation and Portafina  arranged for the SIPP  to be set up, the 
PPPs to be transferred and for the funds  to be fully invested in cash. Shortly after this was 
completed, the servicing rights  for the SIPP were transferred to Firm C. Firm C subsequently 
arranged for the SIPP funds  to purchase  a number of investments, five of which  were  
unregulated. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  Even if it wasnt specifically intending to advise  on the 
investments, Portafina needed to have an awareness of the intended investments in order to 
give suitable advice.  This remains  the case even if Firm C was actually providing that advice. 
Ref: DRN84834575It is, in my view, reasonable to expect a firm that is assessing the suitability of a pension  
transfer to consider the overall  investment strategy  that applies to that proposed transfer, 
including a broad  understanding of the proposed investments, before it could determine 
whether the transfer was in Mr Ss best interest.  
In 2013, the regulator  at the time issued an alert about advising on pension  transfers with a 
view to investing pension  monies into unregulated products through  a SIPP. This alert was 
issued because it had come to the regulators notice that some  firms  were  adopting  advice 
models which didnt  comply with the existing obligations and so there  was a potential for 
consumer detriment. The regulator made  its position  clear in the alert, where  it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle  for investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected  underlying  investments in unregulated schemes. It should 
be particularly clear  to financial advisers that, where  a customer  seeks advice on a 
pension transfer  in implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the 
pension transfer  must  take account  of the overall investment strategy the customer  is 
contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the 
regulated elements
In the scenario set out in this alert, the other firm involved  was unregulated. In Mr Ss case,  
Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business under its AR agreement with Firm S. 
Portafina may believe that this absolved it from its duty to assess  the suitability of the 
investments, particularly as it may have said to Mr S that it wasnt providing  any advice on 
the underlying  investments as Firm C was doing that. But the update makes it clear that it 
wasnt open to Portafina to provide advice on a restricted basis.  It couldnt separate out the 
two elements; its advice  on the suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability of the 
underlying investments. 
The position  on this is further supported by a subsequent alert issued by the regulator,  on 
28 April 2014, regarding  pension  transfers  and switches. Again, this alert didnt follow  the 
introduction of new regulations but restated the existing  position. 
Ref: DRN84834576The regulator said it was: 
alerting firms to our requirements  when they give advice on self-invested personal  
pensions (SIPPS), giving our view and key messages . It included  the following: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest  
through a SIPP,  then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer.  If the underlying investment is not suitable for the 
customer, then the overall advice is not suitable. If a firm does not fully understand 
the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will not be able to 
assess suitability of the transaction as a whole. 
The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the 
overall transaction, that is the vehicle, the wrapper  and the expected  underlying investments 
and whether or not such investments were regulated products. It said, despite the initial alert 
(in January 2013), some  firms continued to adopt  a model which  purportedly  restricted 
advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a pension transfer 
or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing pension  arrangement  
and the underlying investments intended to be held in the SIPP. 
Im conscious that both the 2013  and 2014 alerts  were  issued  prior to Mr S receiving advice  
and so Portafina ought to have known that it needed  to do this. 
As it told Mr S it wasnt providing any advice on the underlying investments, Portafina 
appears to have been under the impression that this enabled  it to provide advice on a 
restricted basis; this wasnt right. It couldnt  separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter.
These alerts dont have  the status  of a Handbook rule as such,  nonetheless I consider it to 
be a relevant indicator of the standards expected by the regulator  in these circumstances, as 
well as a helpful  indicator  of what good  industry practice looked like at the time.  And both 
alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching  Principles  for Businesses (PRIN) 
and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with reference 
to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations  under these 
precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt 
be able to recommend  a new product,  like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr S under the regulatory  system. So, even if it said it was operating under a limited  retainer, 
this didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure  the advice it was providing was suitable   
again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Ss funds  would be invested.
Ref: DRN84834577COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr S. To achieve  this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain  enough  
information from Mr S to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could  bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  
COBS 9.2.2R included  the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, 
where relevant,  information on the length  of time for which he wishes  to hold the 
investment, his preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes  of 
the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Ss objectives and the 
related risks.  It wasnt  free to ignore how Mr Ss funds  were going to be invested irrespective 
of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP  to be inextricably 
linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer 
without knowing what Mr S would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind seem 
reasonably possible.
After Portafina gave advice the agency  for Mr Ss SIPP was transferred to Firm C and it was 
Firm C that recommended  the high risk and Illiquid investments. However, the alerts make it 
clear that a firm that is asked to advise on a pension  transfer needs to be aware of the 
intended investments  before it advises on the transfer, in order to provide suitable advice. 
So, Portafina shouldve  requested this information  from Firm C before providing advice. And, 
as confirmed in the alert, if it didnt fully understand the underlying investment proposition  
intended to be held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or 
switch at all. 
The regulators rules do allow for situations  where two regulated  firms are involved. In 
particular, the rules state: 
COBS 2.4.6R(2). 
A firm will be taken to be in compliance  with any rule in this sourcebook that requires 
it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by another person.
COBS 2.4.8G
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance  with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely 
on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a 
professional firm, unless  it is aware or ought  reasonably to be aware  of any fact that 
would give reasonable grounds  to question the accuracy of that information.
Ref: DRN84834578These rules  essentially mean  that a firm can rely on information provided to it by another 
regulated firm, where it is reasonable to do so. The rule is stated to apply to situations where  
a firm is required by a handbook rule to obtain the information in question  from another  
person.  
However, in this case, Portafina failed to obtain any information from Firm C about the 
intended investment  proposition for Mr S. This is despite Firm C completing  the fact find and 
attitude to risk questionnaire  for Mr S - and forwarding these to Portafina - before Portafina 
issued its suitability report. This is supported  in various emails  between the two firms that Mr 
S was able to provide following his subject  access request. And Firm C issued its suitability 
report, setting out the investment recommendations, the day after Portafina issued its own 
report recommending  the transfer. I dont think this was enough time for Firm C to complete a 
full advice process before making its recommendations. So I think  its likely that Firm C had 
in mind a portfolio of intended  investments before Portafina was involved, or at the very least 
at the same  time as when Portafina were involved.  Firm C advised Mr S to invest a 
significant proportion  of his SIPP in unregulated investments. Portafina says it didnt know  
this was Firms Cs intention - but it would have, had it found out about the intended 
investments as I consider it was required to do; they were part and parcel  of the transfer. But 
it appears that in giving its advice to transfer, Portafina failed to check  how Firm C broadly 
proposed to invest Mr Ss money.
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Ss appointed financial adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable advice 
and act in Mr Ss best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of where  
Mr Ss funds  would  be invested.  
Portafina may have  completed due diligence checks on Firm C before agreeing to accept 
client referrals  from it. But it wasnt enough  for it to rely on general information provided  to it 
at the start of its relationship with Firm C; that wouldnt have been a reasonable basis  for 
Portafina to have assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Mr S.
In my view, it shouldve done more to ensure it understood the types  of investments Firm C 
would be recommending, and in particular  in connection with Mr Ss proposed  transfer. As 
Ive said, I wouldve expected Portafina to request details upfront from Firm C as to the 
intended portfolio  for Mr S. Without  this information, Im not satisfied that Portafina  could 
reasonably assess  the suitability  of the transfer.
Had Portafina requested this information and it had been advised that Firm C intended to 
invest Mr S in a number of UCIS, then it couldve questioned this, given how at odds it was 
with his established attitude to risk. And in the event  that Portafina  had been misled by Firm 
C as to the proposed investments, then its likely Mr S wouldve realised that the investments 
Firm C went on to arrange differed to those Portafina had based its suitability assessment 
on. And Mr S couldve taken action accordingly.
What was Portafina required  to do?
I think its important to explain that regardless of anyone elses part in the matter Portafina 
had to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the overarching 
Principles for Businesses. Principles 1 (integrity ), 2 (skill,  care and diligence ), 6 (customers 
interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
Ref: DRN84834579The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out 
the rules regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R 
required Portafina to take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation was suitable for Mr S. It had to obtain information as to Mr Ss 
knowledge and experience (relevant  to the specific type of designated investment), 
his financial situation  and investment objectives.
As set out above, COBS 9.2.2R required Portafina to gather  sufficient  information  from Mr 
S to ensure  the recommendation  met his objectives, he could bear the risks involved and 
he had the necessary experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the 
transaction.
Under COBS 2.1.1R Portafina had to act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
The advice  to transfer the PPPs
Having considered whether, in recommending the transfer, Portafina reasonably had regard
to the expected investment proposition for Mr S as a whole, Ill now consider whether the
transfer ought to have  been recommended in any event. In other words, even if Firm Cs
expected investment proposition was suitable for Mr S, was the transfer likely to have been 
suitable for Mr S in any event?
It is clear to me from Mr Ss background and circumstances  that he satisfied the FCA 
definition of a Retail Client i.e. he was neither a professional client or an eligible 
counterparty. Therefore,  he was entitled to rights and protections afforded  to Retail  Clients 
and I think he was reliant on the advice given to him.
Portafina assessed Mr Ss attitude  to risk as balanced. Mr S to some extent disputes  this 
and argues that he was at best low to balanced at the time of the advice, and remains  so. I 
am mindful  that Firm C also assessed his attitude  to risk as 3 on a scale of 7 i.e. balanced, 
which was consistent  with Portafinas assessment. I have also thought about his capacity  for 
loss. His overall pension pot of approximately £319K was quite substantial;  I dont know if he 
was making further  pension contributions  but he was employed,  had disposable  income, 
savings and his remaining  mortgage  was relatively  small. His financial situation seemed 
stable and reasonably secure. So, I think balanced was an accurate assessment of his 
attitude to risk and I also think  he had sufficient capacity  for loss to absorb this level of risk, 
at least in the short to medium term.
Three quarters of his pension funds were invested in a managed  and diversified growth fund, 
which would broadly match his balanced attitude  to risk. The remaining quarter was in with-
profits funds, which could  typically  be considered a little lower  than balanced risk. But 
overall, I dont think that the investment strategy  of the existing funds was particularly  out of 
kilter with his attitude to risk, at least not to the extent that would necessitate  a transfer.
I have thought about how the recommendation addressed Mr Ss objectives,  as stated in 
Portafinas suitability  report.
Ref: DRN848345710I can see that consolidation  would add some value  as it would undoubtedly simplify matters  
for Mr S, but this needed to be weighed up against any disadvantages  of transferring. In any 
event, consolidation  was not fully achieved  because,  quite rightly,  Portafina recommended  
that Plan 5 should not be transferred because it had low charges and good investment 
performance. So, Mr S ended up with two different plans in any event. Although this would 
still be more desirable  than having  five different plans,  I dont  think reducing the number of 
plans from five to two added a great deal of value to Mr S in terms of simplifying things.
Portafinas suitability  report  confirmed that Mr S had no immediate  intention  of drawing any 
of his pension  benefits. So, the ability to flexibly access benefits held little value at that time. 
Mr S could have transferred to a suitable  plan that offered  this flexibility if and when this 
need arose. 
All five of Mr Ss existing  pension plans were invested in managed funds  and I have seen 
nothing from his background and circumstances to persuade me why he had a need for 
greater investment flexibility. To the contrary, he was looking to simplify matters.  I think 
managed investments, where the investment decisions are made  by experts,  would have 
suited Mr S.
The treatment and value  of death benefits in the existing plans was similar to how they 
would be treated in the SIPP. Mr S was in good health and still working and I can see no 
compelling reason  why death benefits were of high importance, at least not to the extent that 
would necessitate a transfer.  The initial fees from the transfer would actually reduce the 
available death  benefits, at least in the short term. I dont think  the transfer  added  any 
significant value  in terms of the availability or treatment of death benefits.  
The transfer resulted in an immediate  initial cost to Mr S of 5% for the transfer advice  and 
£180 for the set up of the SIPP.  He would then be charged a further annual SIPP fee of 
0.5%. He would then also incur additional  advice and investment fees from Firm C, that were  
unquantified by Portafina. The total ongoing charges of the transferred plans ranged from 
0.5% per year to 1.5% per year.  Broadly  speaking the total existing charges were relatively 
low. 
Portafina argue that it performed a comparison of charges and performance, which 
concluded that Mr S would potentially be better  off by transferring. I dont think  that any such 
comparison could have  been valid, because Portafina did not know what  investments Firm C 
would recommend or how much they would  cost. So, in my view any such  comparison 
produced by Portafina wouldnt  have  been  meaningful.
Ref: DRN848345711Plans 2 to 4 were  invested in unitized with-profits funds and it is clear  from the paperwork 
Portafina obtained that these funds were performing poorly and the expectation was that this 
would continue, because a number  of the funds  consisted mainly  of cash  and bonds, that 
would typically have  limited growth  potential. The total transfer value of these three plans 
was approximately  £75K. Of this, however,  it is noted that around £48K  also benefitted from 
a guaranteed growth rate of 4% per year. This could be considered a little lower  than the 
average level of investment returns that could reasonably be expected if Mr S was 
recommended to invest in line with his balanced attitude to risk. I base this view on the 
Regulators standard mid-projection assumption of 5% per year. But this performance would 
not be guaranteed and there is always a trade-off between risk and reward. In this context, I 
think a guaranteed growth rate of 4% was a reasonable guaranteed return and added a level 
of security as part of a wider investment  portfolio. Neither the suitability report or the 
Declaration that accompanied it made any reference  to this guarantee, so I dont think Mr S 
was in an informed  position when he agreed to give up this benefit.
I think Mr S could  have benefitted from advice  about what  to do with the remaining  £27K in 
the expectedly  poor performing with-profits funds, but Portafina did not explore his 
alternatives fully. I say this because  the paperwork obtained from the existing plan providers 
did not confirm  what alternative investment funds, if any, were available.  It is often possible 
to switch internally from a unitized with-profits  fund.  So, its possible Mr S may have been 
able to switch  within his existing plans to suitable, better performing funds at a lower  cost 
than transferring to the SIPP. Portafina did not explore this option but it should have. 
In summary,  I dont think that the transfer recommendation was suitable  because it added  
little tangible benefit to Mr S and most  of the tangible benefit it did offer could arguably have 
been met within the existing plans if Portafina had conducted the necessary research.
would Mr S have gone ahead with the transfer  in any event?  
Ive given thought as to whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portafina not to transfer, 
Mr S might have gone ahead with the transfer  anyway.
As I have stated, I think Mr S was reliant  on the advice given to him. Based on what I have 
seen about his knowledge,  circumstances  and objectives, I can see no reason why, if he had 
been advised not to transfer, he would have  acted against this advice and would have 
transferred anyway. I think it is particularly telling that he accepted  Portafinas advice not to 
transfer Plan 5. If it had also advised  him not transfer plans 1 to 4 and made an alternate,  
suitable recommendation, I think  Mr S would have accepted Portafinas advice.
Ref: DRN848345712is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Ss loss?
Im satisfied that the advice Portafina  provided  was unsuitable and the losses  suffered 
by Mr S are as a result of its inappropriate advice to him to transfer  his PPPs  to a 
SIPP. And had it not been for this unsuitable  advice, Mr S wouldnt have been in a 
position to invest  as he did through Firm C. Because of this I consider Portafina wholly  
responsible for Mr Ss resulting losses.
Im not asking Portafina to account  for loss that goes beyond  the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused  the full extent of the loss in question. I 
recognise that Firm Cs actions may also have contributed  to Mr Ss loss. So I have  
considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating the 
loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think its fair to make an award for the 
whole loss against Portafina.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment. Portafina  advised Mr S to 
transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for the PPPs to be transferred. I 
acknowledge that Firm C advised  Mr S to invest a significant share  of his SIPP funds in 
UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas  understanding that it could reasonably  limit its 
advice to just the transfer and the SIPP  was wrong;  it needed to consider  the proposed 
investments too, even  if Firm C was advising Mr S on the investments. It was only as a result  
of Portafinas  involvement that Mr S transferred his PPPs.  Portafinas  role was pivotal, since 
the eventual investments were fully reliant  on the transfer taking place;  if Mr S hadnt 
transferred, he couldnt have invested as he did. And, as was clearly  set out in the 
regulators  alerts  in both 2013  and 2014,  Portafina  couldnt  restrict  its advice  merely  to 
the transfer;  it had to consider  the proposed  investments  for Mr S, which  it didnt  do. 
While  I accept  that Firm C might  also bear some  responsibility  for Mr Ss losses,  Im 
satisfied  that had it not been  for Portafinas  failings,  Mr S wouldnt  have  suffered  a loss 
at all.
I appreciate  that Firm C is in liquidation  but Im aware  that, as a fund of last resort,  the 
FSCS  wont  pay out on claims  where  it is aware  that another  firm was involved  in the 
transaction,  and it considers  that firm might  also be responsible  for a consumers  losses.  
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly  responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm C is now in liquidation. My starting point  as to causation  is that 
Portafina gave  unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses  Mr S suffered in 
transferring to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind,  wrong  in law or 
irrational but reflects  the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position.  
Portafina couldve prevented the transfer  and the investments. Instead it facilitated  them,  
having given unsuitable advice to Mr S that he should transfer.  Mr S hasnt complained 
about Firm C and in light of its liquidation,  there  would be little point in him doing so. He has 
complained about Portafina and because of what I have said,  it is, in my view, fair and 
reasonable that Portafina should account  to him for the full extent of his losses.  
So, for the reasons  given,  Im satisfied  that Portafina  is responsible  for Mr Ss losses.  
Ref: DRN848345713putting  things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the PPPs. 
Portafina should compare the current value of Mr Ss SIPP  with the combined  notional value 
of his pensions  if hed remained with his previous providers. This should take account of any 
additional contributions or withdrawals Mr S has made  since the SIPP  started.
If there is a loss, Portafina will need  to pay into Mr Ss pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow  for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Portafina shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible then the amount should be paid directly to Mr S. 
This would have provided a taxable income  so the compensation  should be reduced  to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ss actual  or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age, presumed to be 20%. However, if Mr S would have been able to 
take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction  should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mr S £300 for the trouble and upset  caused by the advice received.
My aim is to return Mr S to the position he wouldve been in but for the failings of Portafina. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value  cant be determined. That appears to be the case  here. So when 
determining the current value of the SIPP, the value of any illiquid  investments should  be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should  take ownership  of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment, the value should be assumed  to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Portafina may wish to require  that Mr S provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Portafina will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold this complaint and direct  Portal Financial Services  LLP 
to pay redress as set out above. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or reject 
my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8483457