K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr R says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2003.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mr R owed on his store  card. The policy would have paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mr R couldnt  work because he 
had an accident,  was unwell or lost his job. The policy  also provided life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mr R that the policy  was optional and get his consent before PPI 
could be applied to the account. Mr R says he wasnt told the policy was optional.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Mr R at the time of the sale and 
I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover   the name  used by FICL for 
PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Mr R has signed the section to confirm he wanted  the cover. If Mr R didnt want to take out 
the PPI he could have left this section blank. And Mr R has signed the overall  application 
form which suggests it reflected what he wanted. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mr R 
chose to take it out, knowing he could refuse  it if he didnt want  it.
Both parties  agree that no advice was given to Mr R about the policy  at the sale. And from 
looking at the paperwork supplied I dont think FICL did recommend the policy  to him. This 
means it didnt have to check  if the policy was right for him. But FICL did need to make sure 
it gave Mr R clear  enough  information about the policy  to enable him to decide for himself  if 
he should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mr R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  him better or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
Ref: DRN80895102made a difference. I still think he would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mr R 
was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  he was 
already aware.
Mr R has told us that he would receive six months  full sick pay, followed by six months half 
pay, from his employer if he was too ill to work. But this policy would have  paid out until Mr R 
was able to return  to work or until the outstanding  balance had been repaid  whichever 
came first. And it would pay out in addition to his sick pay and potentially for longer  than he 
would receive full pay. And it would have  provided  cover for the same length of time if he 
was to lose his job. So I think this policy could have provided a useful benefit  to him.
Ive also thought about everything that Mr R has said,  including what he has told us about 
being able to rely on his partners income and family  support to help meet  his repayments  
so he didnt need the cover. But support from others cant  always be guaranteed  as their 
circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to provide such financial 
assistance. So this point doesnt  alter my decision.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think  Mr R has lost out as a result  of 
anything FICL may have  done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8089510