K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Emergency Cash Limited  (trading as wizzcash) gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay. He asks that interest and charges are refunded and the loans are 
removed from his credit file.
background
Mr G took out six loans with wizzcash between December 2016 and February 2018. 
wizzcash said that it shouldnt have offered the fifth loan. Mr G says it shouldnt  have offered 
any of the loans as they were all unaffordable.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She said it wasnt wrong 
for wizzcash to offer loan 1 but it shouldnt have offered the later loans. The adjudicator said:
Mr G made a number of applications  before  loan 2 and his expenditure increased.  This 
could suggest  financial problems or dependency  on short term loans. If wizzcash had 
made proportionate  checks  it would likely have known Mr G had seven short  term loans 
outstanding and loan 2 wasnt  affordable. 
by loan 3 Mr Gs borrowing pattern suggested he was reliant on short term loans. Hed 
been borrowing  from wizzcash for more than seven months. He applied  for higher 
amounts than wizzcash approved and he had a number  of declined or cancelled 
applications between  loans. 
wizzcash didnt agree. It said it offered loan 2 because it assessed it as affordable and there 
was no sign of financial difficulty  or negative information from its credit  check.  It said it asked 
Mr G about his short term borrowing as part of his expenditure.  wizzcash said its credit 
check showed only four short term loans outstanding.  It said based on the information  it had 
from Mr G and its credit check, Mr G would have been able to meet the loan repayment 
without difficulty.  
wizzcash said there was a break between the later loans.  It said it declined Mr Gs 
applications to ensure  he wasnt  depending  on its loans. wizzcash  said its credit checks  
didnt suggest  Mr G had financial  difficulties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr G took out six loans with wizzcash. Before offering these loans to Mr G, wizzcash needed 
to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that 
it should have  carried out proportionate  checks to make sure Mr G could repay  the loans in a 
sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Gs income  and 
expenditure. 
Ref: DRN80316642Loan 1 (December  2016)  
Mr G applied for loan 1 (of £500) in December 2016.  The loan was repayable in monthly 
instalments of about £225. 
Mr G told wizzcash  his monthly  income  was £3,750. He said his monthly  expenditure was 
£1,270, which wizzcash increased to £2,666 based on information from its credit check. 
wizzcash says the information it received from its credit checks  didnt suggest Mr G would  
have difficulty repaying the loans. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate. Given the amount of the repayments and Mr Gs stated income, I think 
wizzcashs checks were proportionate  for loan 1. I dont think wizzcash  was wrong to offer 
Mr G loan 1.
Loan 2 (February  2017) 
Mr G repaid loan 1 early. He applied for loan 2 (of £400) in February 2017. 
The loan was repayable in monthly  instalments of about £200. Mr G told wizzcash  his 
monthly income was £3,750. He said his monthly  expenditure  was £1,270,  which wizzcash 
increased to £2,800 based on information  from its credit check.
Mr G made  three loan applications  between repaying loan 1 and taking out loan 2 which he 
cancelled. He made another four applications  which wizzcash  declined:  it says this was 
either because Mr Gs application didnt pass credit or affordability  tests or because  hed had 
too many  loans. While  I think wizzcash needed to take what  it knew  about Mr G into account,  
including his cancelled  and declined applications,  I dont think this would in itself have 
suggested Mr G would  have difficulty repaying loan 2.
wizzcash says the information it received from its credit checks  didnt suggest Mr G would  
have difficulty repaying the loans. wizzcash says its credit check  showed Mr G had 
outstanding short term loans and had recently repaid others. I understand that wizzcash 
assessed the loan repayments as affordable, based  on the information it had. But wizzcash  
was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether 
the loan repayments were  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
I think Mr Gs use of short term loans could suggest  a possible problem  that Mr G was 
having difficulty managing his money  or was reliant on short term loans. I think wizzcash  
should have asked for more detailed information  about Mr Gs financial circumstances and 
ask for evidence (which  could be bank statements) to support what  he said.
Ive looked at Mr Gs bank statements to see what wizzcash would have seen if it had made 
further checks. In the first three days of February  2017 Mr G paid about  £2,900  to short  term 
and instalment lenders (excluding  the repayment  for loan 1). In February 2017, before Mr G 
took out loan 2, hed borrowed about £1,550 from other short term lenders which  hadnt  
been repaid when he took out loan 2. He made payments of about £1,500 to short term 
lenders (other than wizzcash) in March 2017. 
I appreciate that bank  statements for February 2017  might  not have been  available  when 
Mr G applied for loan 2. But Ive looked  at Mr Gs earlier bank statements and I can see that 
this borrowing pattern wasnt new. He borrowed £3,950 from short  term and instalment 
Ref: DRN80316643lenders in November and about £1,700 in December  this is in addition to the £500 he 
borrowed from wizzcash. 
I dont think further  borrowing was sustainable.  
Loans 3 to 6 (July 2017 to February 2018) 
Mr G repaid loan 2 in late March 2017.  He took out the next loan in July 2017.  I think that 
wizzcash should have  considered whether further lending  was sustainable. 
Mr G didnt take out a new loan immediately  after the previous loan was repaid. wizzcash  
says it ensures theres a break between loans. But I dont think the breaks between Mr Gs 
loans were enough for wizzcash  to be reasonably sure there  wasnt  a possible problem here, 
such as dependency  on short term loans or financial difficulties. I say this because Mr G 
often made  applications shortly  after a loan was repaid, he had applications declined  and 
wizzcash knew he had loans from other short term lenders.
I think that Mr G lost out because wizzcash continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards. These loans  had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of time. I 
also think his use of these  loans was likely to have had negative implications on his ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Gs complaint about  loan 2 and the later loans. wizzcash should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loan 2 and the later loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  about  loan 2 from Mr Gs credit file; and
remove all entries about  loan 3 and the later loans from Mr Gs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires wizzcash to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Emergency Cash  Limited  to take the steps 
and pay the compensation set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8031664