K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that a broker  One Sure Insurance  Limited is responsible  
for the cancellation  of Mr Ws vehicle  insurance  policy. 
background
Mrs W called  One Sure in June  2018 and bought a vehicle insurance policy  for Mr W for 
their motorhome. This policy was cancelled in July 2018 because the underwriter of the 
policy wouldnt accept the level of security attached to the vehicle. 
Mrs W complained  to One Sure.  But One Sure said it asked Mrs W if their motorhome  had a 
Thatcham 1 immobiliser during the sales call and Mrs W answered yes.  So it said Mrs W 
misrepresented the information. 
One Sure accepted that it had failed to call Mrs W back  in July 2018  as promised. For this, it 
waived its cancellation  fee of £75 and agreed to refund the fee Mrs W paid for motor legal 
protection. 
Mrs W asked  us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought  the agent asked Mrs W 
the questions  very quickly in the sales call - and that Mrs W hesitated when she answered  
the key question. She noticed  the question set by the insurer was different to the question  
the broker asked  Mrs W. The investigator believed One Sure  hadnt asked Mrs W a clear 
question and thought it should do the following to put things  right:
Write  a letter to Mr and Mrs W confirming the cancellation of the policy was in 
error.
Arrange for any recording of the cancellation  on any databases to be removed. 
Ensure the only charge  Mr and Mrs W pay is a pro rata amount for the days Mr W 
was insured. If any refund is due over and above  this amount, One Sure  should 
pay interest on the refund at a rate of 8% simple interest. 
Pay Mr and Mrs W £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused them.
Mr and Mrs W accepted the investigators  view.  One Sure didnt agree. It said its only error 
was failing to call Mrs W back when promised and its fairly compensated her for this by 
waiving its cancellation  fee and the motor legal protection fee.  
So One Sure would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it.
Where a complaint  arises  from non disclosure, we look to see that the insurer or broker  
asked a clear question when the policy was taken out. We check  that the information given 
would affect whether a policy was offered or its terms. And we check whether the 
policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide  accurate information. 
When Mrs W called One Sure to buy a policy, she explained that theyd bought  a motorhome 
and were collecting it the following day. The key question Mrs W was asked by One Sure  
has been provided in a recording of the sales call as follows:
Ref: DRN80356662Agent Does  it have  a Thatcham 1 immobiliser?
Mrs W paused  and then replied: Oh yes thats right an immobiliser
It transpired that Mrs Ws motorhome has a Thatcham 2 immobiliser  and not a Thatcham 1. 
Mrs W said she didnt  hear the agent say 1. She only heard  the word  Thatcham.  As the 
insurer would only provide cover for Mrs Ws motorhome with a Thatcham 1 immobiliser, it 
cancelled Mr Ws policy. Mrs W said One Sure told her she owed  a balance of £170. 
The question set on the Statement of Fact by the insurer asked for details of any approved  
security devices, other than those  fitted  as standard  by the manufacturer.
If Mrs W had been  asked  if their motorhome had anything other than a standard factory  fitted
immobiliser device, I think its more  likely  than not she would have answered no. Therefore 
One Sure wouldnt have  been able to offer her the policy it did for Mr W. 
I dont think its fair for One Sure to expect  a consumer to understand that there  are different 
types of immobilisers. I think thats  why Mrs W answered the question  yes thats right an 
immobiliser and not yes thats right a Thatcham  1 immobiliser
So I dont  think in this case that One Sure acted reasonably. I think  it should have asked a 
clear question as set out by the insurer. I can understand why Mr and Mrs W were  upset 
when they were told that the policy would be cancelled because  they didnt give correct 
information about the security device attached to their new motorhome. This led them to 
have to arrange alternative cover elsewhere  and Mrs W spent considerable time in calls to 
One Sure to discuss  her concerns. And so I think a fair outcome is for One Sure to put things 
right for Mr and Mrs W as set out in my recommendations below.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require One Sure  Insurance  Services  
Limited to do the following:
Confirm in writing to Mr and Mrs W that the cancellation of the policy in July 2018 
was an error. This means Mr and Mrs W can show  this to future insurers.  
Compensate Mr and Mrs W by ensuring the only sum they paid was a pro rata 
amount for the days of insurance. Any balance owed, One Sure will need to 
reimburse and pay interest at a rate of 8% simple interest from the date 
Mr and Mrs W paid for the policy to the date of the refund. 
Pay Mr and Mrs W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
in its handling  of the policy. 
I cant ask One Sure as a broker  to remove  the cancellation from any centralised  database  
(other than its own database  if it has one) as its usually an insurer that records  a cancellation 
mark. This is why Ive asked One Sure to provide a letter  instead.
Ref: DRN80356663Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8035666