K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (Lighthouse)  mis-sold 
them unemployment cover as part of their income protection policy.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out an income protection policy in March  2016. At that time, they decided 
against including unemployment cover. 
In October  2016, they met with a Lighthouse adviser to discuss  adding unemployment cover.  
Mr and Mrs K decided  to go ahead and unemployment cover was added  to their policy from 
December 2016.
In January 2017, Mr K made a claim for unemployment.  The insurer declined the claim 
because the policy didnt cover unemployment  within the first eight weeks. 
Mr and Mrs K have  previously complained about the insurers  decision, but their complaint 
wasnt upheld. An ombudsman said it was fair and reasonable for the insurer to decline Mr 
and Mrs Ks claim.
Mr and Mrs K have  now complained that Lighthouse mis-sold the unemployment cover to 
them. They say they asked the adviser  if there was a period theyd have to wait before they 
could claim.  But the adviser told them there  wasnt. They say the adviser let them down and 
his mistake cost them as they were unable to claim successfully. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said she couldnt reasonably conclude that 
the unemployment cover was mis-sold.  Mr and Mrs K disagree, and have asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the paperwork from the time Mr and Mrs K took out the unemployment 
cover. 
Ive seen a copy  of a fact find document signed  by the adviser  and Mr K after their meeting 
in October 2016.  It appears the adviser discussed with Mr and Mrs K their circumstances, 
employment and financial situation. He also asked them about their future financial priorities.  
The following  day the adviser wrote a letter to Mr and Mrs K to confirm their discussions and 
his recommendations.  He said that unemployment cover for Mr K would be added  to the 
existing income protection policy.
The advisers letter said:
 
This letter should be read carefully and in conjunction with the Policy Summary  and 
Key Facts Document  previously provided. These documents should be kept together 
in a safe place as they contain the main features and benefits of your policy  together  
with a summary of the exclusions,  excess, limitations and conditions that may apply.
Ref: DRN85122902The letter also said:  
Please note that the income would only be paid as set out in the policy definitions.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs K have  said about their discussions with the 
adviser. Mr and Mrs K have said they had no knowledge of any impending redundancy at 
the time.  They say they asked the adviser on four separate  occasions  whether there  was a 
wait time, and each  time he said there wasnt.  And theyve said they made  clear  they wanted  
a policy  without a wait period. 
Ive also listened  to a recording of a call between  Mr K and the insurer  about his 
unemployment claim in January  2017.  When the eight  week  exclusion was discussed, Mr K 
said hed asked his adviser whether there was a wait period and been  told there wasnt.
 
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs K have provided  their best recollection  of what  happened  at 
their meeting  with the adviser. But I also have  to take account  of the fact that theres  no 
reference in either the fact find document or the advisers letter to a discussion about  a wait 
time. 
Mr and Mrs K have  also said they werent  given any documents prior to the unemployment 
cover being  set up. 
But, as Ive already  noted, the advisers letter did refer them  to the policy summary and key 
facts document  they should have  received  when  they first took out their income protection  
policy. The policy  summary included  information  about the unemployment cover, including  
the eight week  exclusion. 
The key issue I need to decide  is whether Lighthouse mis-sold the unemployment cover  to 
Mr and Mrs K. For example, did they advise them to take out cover that was unsuitable for 
them, or fail to provide them with sufficiently clear  information about it? And overall, I dont 
think Ive got enough  evidence to say Lighthouse did anything  wrong.  
Based on the information Ive seen, I think the Lighthouse adviser recommended  cover that 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ks needs  at the time they took it out. I cant be sure whether the 
eight week exclusion was discussed at the meeting.  But that term is common to cover  of the 
sort Mr and Mrs K were  taking, and Lighthouse  referred  them to the paperwork for detailed  
information on the policy exclusions.  So I dont think  I can say that Lighthouse failed to 
provide Mr and Mrs K with enough  information to make  an informed decision. 
Mr and Mrs K have  also referred to a phone call the Lighthouse adviser  made to the insurer  
after their claim  was declined. The insurer has provided recordings  of the calls theyve 
received since September 2016  in relation  to Mr and Mrs Ks policy.  Ive listened  to all of the 
recordings, but they dont  change my decision.
Overall Ive not seen  enough evidence that Lighthouse  mis-sold  the policy to Mr and Mrs K. 
I realise this wont be the decision they were hoping for, but I wont be upholding their 
complaint.  
Ref: DRN85122903my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint against  Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8512290