K820x#14Complaint
Ms B complains  she was misled into signing up for a loan which  was much  larger  than she 
had been led to believe, by a broker acting on behalf of 3J Finance Limited.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision. I have 
corrected a typographical error in the attached provisional decision.
In very brief summary, in my provisional  decision I concluded:
Ms B had not been  misled about  the size or nature of the financial commitment she 
was signing up to.
3J Finance Limited had not carried out proportionate checks into Ms Bs ability to 
repay the loan.
However, Ms B had not supplied evidence of her financial situation at the time, 
meaning I was unable to determine  what 3J Finance  Limited  would have seen had it 
carried out proportionate checks. I therefore  couldnt conclude it had lent to Ms B 
irresponsibly.
Neither party to the complaint has responded to my provisional decision,  and so the case  
has now been returned to me to consider once again.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has contacted us with any further evidence  or arguments they want  
me to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the findings set out in my provisional  
decision.
It follows that I find Ms B was not misled  about  the size or nature of the financial commitment 
she was signing up for, and that 3J Finance Limited  did not lend to her irresponsibly.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my attached  provisional decision, I do not uphold 
Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2021.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN81364172COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Ms B complains  she was misled into signing up for a loan which was much larger than she had been 
led to believe, by a broker acting on behalf  of 3J Finance Limited.
Background
Late in 2016  Ms B received  a leaflet from her childrens school promoting  the services of a company  
which provided an online maths and English programme.  Ill call this company  X.
Ms B expressed an interest in Xs services and a meeting was arranged for the evening of 27 
December 2016 at which she, her children and the father of her children were present. At this 
meeting, Ms B says Xs representative assessed her children and suggested she sign up for the 
programme, which would cost £500 on interest-free  credit. She says she paid a £30 deposit and 
signed some  paperwork by hand which showed the cost was £500. She also signed some documents  
on an iPad but didnt read them. Ms B was also emailed  the documents she signed on the iPad, but 
didnt read these until some  time later. Shes explained this was because  Xs representative  said she 
didnt need to worry about it and she trusted him.
Ms B says her children used the programme for a few months  and then stopped. About a year later 
she received  an annual statement from 3J Finance  which  showed she had been paying just over 
£100 per month  towards  a loan, which  was due to carry on for another  three years, and by the end of 
which shed have paid over £4,800.  She rang 3J Finance to complain that shed  been given incorrect 
information about what she was signing  up for. She was told she needed  to speak to X. Ms B then 
complained to X, who said they couldnt find any evidence that shed been told she was signing up to 
pay £500. They didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms B then brought her complaint to this service, where  it was looked  into by an investigator.  Our 
investigator had some concerns about the way the loan was sold,  and also thought it hadnt been 
properly checked  that it was affordable for Ms B. She recommended the complaint be upheld.  X didnt 
reply to our investigator, and subsequently went into administration. Arrangements  were made to 
have the complaint considered instead  against 3J Finance, and our investigator sent a copy of her 
findings to them. 3J Finance  didnt agree with those findings and the case has now been passed to 
me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide provisionally whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont think  Ms Bs complaint 
should be upheld. I will explain why. 
The loan with 3J Finance was sold by X, and it is X who Ms B says gave her incorrect information  
about what she was signing  up for. The current complaint  is brought against 3J Finance, so I will first 
outline how it is that 3J Finance can be held responsible  for the way the loan was sold when  it was 
not itself the seller.
Ms Bs loan with 3J Finance  was regulated by the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. This act contains 
provisions which give a degree  of protection  to consumers where they have purchased goods or 
services with certain types of credit. Ms Bs loan is of a type which qualifies for the protection  offered 
by section 56 of the act. 
Section 56 has the effect of making X the agent of 3J Finance during the antecedent negotiations 
leading up to Ms B entering into the loan agreement, beginning from when she first received  the 
leaflet from X. In very broad  terms, it means 3J Finance  is responsible for the acts or omissions of X 
Ref: DRN81364173in relation to the sale of the loan to Ms B. In other words, 3J Finance has to accept responsibility  for 
the things X said or did during the sales process.
Was Ms B misled  about  the size or nature of the commitment she was signing up to?
Ms Bs central point has been that the agreement  Xs representative said she was signing up for (for 
£500) was not the same as the one she ended  up with (for £4,850). Shes said that the representative 
gave her a document to sign, and he took a copy for himself, and that this document  had accurately  
described the agreement she thought  she was signing up for. Ms B has been unable to find her copy 
and neither X nor 3J Finance have supplied  a copy either. This is clearly a key piece of evidence and 
it is unfortunate that it cannot be found. 
The documents which  are available,  and which Ms B accepts that she signed  without reading, appear 
to show  that she had signed  up for a programme costing £4,880,  funded by a £30 deposit and a loan 
of £4,850  made  up of 47 monthly  repayments  of £101.04, and a final repayment of £101.12. These 
documents include  a loan agreement, an enrolment form, an affordability  declaration and a 
satisfaction form. 
Ms B says she was dissuaded from reading  these documents by Xs representative, but there is a 
general principle  that if a person has signed a document they are taken to have read, understood and 
agreed to it. While documents are not always representative of the conversations  which have taken  
place prior to signing them,  in this case the key evidence which might show that Ms B had been given 
incorrect information, is missing.
Ive thought about whether Ms Bs actions and testimony are consistent with those of someone who 
had been told they were  signing up for a credit agreement of £500.  In some respects, I think  that they 
are. It appears that when Ms B received her first annual statement from 3J Finance,  which showed  
she had paid over £1,000 and had several thousand more left to pay, she immediately  called to 
complain. Its also apparent that she didnt open the documents shed signed (which had been 
emailed to her) until after she had been sent the annual statement. Shes  also been consistent  in 
telling X and this service that Xs representative  had told her she was only committing to £500.  
Some of the details  of Ms Bs recollections  do seem to have differed over time however.  It appears 
she told X in January 2018 that the paper  document she had signed with the representative didnt 
state a total amount annual. When Ms B spoke  to this service in October  2018 and January 2019 
however, she said the paper  document she signed said the cost was £500. It seems that when X 
asked Ms B why she hadnt  noticed  more  than £500 had been taken  from her bank account, she 
explained that she never really checked her bank statements. However, when Ms B wrote to this 
service in April 2018 she said the transactions hadnt appeared on her bank statements  which was 
why she hadnt realised she had paid more than £500.  
While I dont  suggest that Ms B is not giving a faithful account  of what she remembers  of the meeting 
with Xs representative,  I am not convinced that I can place a great deal of weight on her 
recollections. It seems likely to me that she doesnt recall the details of what  was discussed. In the 
circumstances I am inclined to accept the electronically-signed  documents as being  a true reflection  
of what  Ms B and X agreed at the time of the meeting. In other  words, I dont  think Ms B was misled 
about what she was signing  up to.
3J Finances decision  to lend to Ms B.
Our investigator had concerns about the decision that was made  to lend to Ms B. Ive analysed 3J 
Finances decision to lend to Ms B and although I think 3J Finance  fell short in its responsibility to 
check Ms B could afford the loan, I dont think theres enough evidence that it was wrong to lend to 
her.
At the time Ms B signed up for the loan, 3J Finance had a responsibility to assess  her application  to 
check if she could afford to pay back the amount  she was going to borrow  without undue difficulty. It 
Ref: DRN81364174needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to the circumstances and then go on to assess 
whether, based on the information it had gathered from its proportionate checks, Ms B could afford to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable way. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which is 
the relevant regulator for this loan, has explained that repayments are sustainable if they are made  
from income or savings, while maintaining existing financial commitments.
3J Finances checks
3J Finance gathered information from two main sources before it made its decision  to lend to Ms B. 
The first source of information was Xs discussion with Ms B of her circumstances during the process  
of applying for the loan. The second source of information was a series of credit checks.
The questions X asked revealed  that Ms B lived in North East London  and was employed  as a carer 
with an annual gross income of £15,000 and two school-age children. It appears X specifically  asked 
how Ms B would fund her monthly  payments  of £101.04, and the answer she gave was that she 
would make the payments from her income. 
The credit  checks carried out by 3J Finance calculated  Ms Bs monthly  income  as being  £1,114.  It 
showed she had a current account,  two revolving credit  accounts, two loans and a mortgage. Her 
secured debt totalled £88,690, her unsecured debt totalled £18,650, and she was up to date on all her 
repayments.
Looking at Ms Bs loan with 3J Finance, I note that it was interest free, but it was to be repaid over a 
four year term,  with repayments of £101.40 per month. Where repayment is to be made  over a longer 
term like this, a lender needs to take into account the fact that each month represents a potential  risk 
of the borrower  falling  into arrears. If the borrowers  regular income and expenditure are quite close 
together, then natural  fluctuations in their expenditure or income could quite easily  lead to them 
struggling to meet their repayments each month in a sustainable  way.
In Ms Bs case, the monthly repayments represented almost 10% of the net income  3J Finance  had 
calculated for her. And 3J Finance was aware  that she would have had potentially significant  
household expenditure. She lived in an expensive  area of the country,  had a mortgage, and most 
likely would have had other bills to pay such  as council  tax and utilities, and repayments on her other 
credit accounts.  I think 3J Finance also ought reasonably to have  been aware  that Ms B would have 
had additional expenses relating to her two children.  
The fairly long loan term and not insignificant monthly repayment, combined  with Ms Bs low income 
and the likelihood that her monthly expenditure would not be a small amount, I think  should  have led 
3J Finance to ask further questions about  her financial  circumstances before  agreeing to lend to her. 
In particular, I think it should  have asked questions about her regular expenditure. It didnt do this, so I 
dont think its checks were proportionate.
While I dont  think  3J Finance carried out proportionate checks  before lending to Ms B, this doesnt 
necessarily mean that its decision to lend to her was wrong or irresponsible. In order to determine  
whether this was the case, I would need to be able to reconstruct what 3J Finance would likely  have 
found out had it carried out proportionate checks. We have asked Ms B to provide detailed evidence 
of her financial situation in the months leading  up to her taking out the loan, but she has been unable 
to do so. 
So on the evidence in front of me, I cant conclude that 3J Finance  lent to Ms B irresponsibly.
Ref: DRN81364175My provisional decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont think Ms B was misled  about the term or size of the loan she 
was signing up to with 3J Finance Limited, and I am unable to conclude that it lent to her 
irresponsibly.
It follows that I do not intend  to uphold her complaint.
I now ask both parties to the complaint to provide  me with any further evidence, comments or 
arguments they wish me to consider, by 25 April 2021. I will then review  the case again.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8136417