K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with Aviva Insurance Limiteds refusal to cover his solicitors costs  without  
sight of a costs breakdown showing  their work  in progress (WIP).  
He complains that this is contrary to what the policy says in a leaflet he received  from Aviva.
All references to Aviva  include its claims handlers.
background
Mr Fs claim for legal expenses relates  to an employment dispute he was involved in. He 
made a claim for cover in 2009.  This  service  considered a complaint about that and a final 
decision was issued  by another ombudsman in 2011. This complaint follows  that decision 
but does not arise out of it. 
In that decision  the deciding  ombudsman  directed  that, in line with the usual  policy terms 
and conditions, Aviva  should indemnity Mr F for the legal expenses  he incurred as a result of 
his employment  dispute. The deciding ombudsman clarified that Aviva should only be liable 
for legal expenses incurred from the date the claim ought reasonably to have been 
accepted. He said this was shortly  after the date when Mr F contacted Avivas helpline  about  
the problem in April 2009. He also clarified that Mr F couldnt reasonably recover expenses 
which he incurred of his own volition before notifying  a claim. 
Mr Fs present complaint is that Aviva  arent  prepared to consider some  of his solicitors  
costs unless he provides  a costs breakdown showing the solicitors WIP. Our investigator 
considered Mr Fs complaint about  this in two parts and under two separate case reference  
numbers. Initially (and under a different case reference number) she said that it was 
reasonable for Aviva to ask Mr F for this information  so that it could  properly asses  the costs 
being claimed. The complaint has since moved  on and in the present case, Mr F refers to a 
policy booklet which says Aviva will consider any costs incurred by him provided his claim 
enjoys prospects of success. 
The investigator considered Mr Fs present complaint and concluded that the terms Mr F 
was referring to werent applicable to his claim.  She said the claim started in April 2009 and 
therefore the policy terms applicable to that period applied. Those terms didnt allow for Mr F 
to claim for any costs incurred- rather they cover  reasonable and necessary costs. And the 
ombudsmans decision of 2011 sets out clearly when those costs  start.  
Mr F doesnt agree so the matter  has been passed  to me to decide. For the avoidance of 
doubt, my decision only addresses Mr Fs complaint that the policy  booklet  hes pointed  to, 
should apply.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Fs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
The costs  Mr F are claiming for arise out of another ombudsmans decision. That decision 
clearly sets out that the costs Mr F is entitled to claim for start shortly after the date when he 
contacted Avivas helpline in April 2009. 
Ref: DRN85345532Aviva has explained  that the policy Mr F has produced doesnt relate to the policy period in 
which his claim arises- namely  shortly after April 2009. Rather they post-date it. It also says 
it sent Mr F updated terms each time his policy renewed. The policy  applicable to Mr Fs 
claim only requires Aviva to pay reasonable and necessary costs. In order  to assess  this 
Aviva have asked for Mr F to provide a breakdown of his solicitors costs,  showing their WIP. 
Given the terms applicable at the time,  I dont  think thats unreasonable.
Mr F says he was never informed by Aviva that the literature he was receiving over the years 
was irrelevant to his claim and that hed need to refer to earlier  policy wording. But I dont  
think Aviva  had to do this. Mr F continued to renew his legal expenses insurance. Those 
policies are intended to provide him with ongoing cover and not to replace insurance that 
was in place at any given point in time.  I dont  think theres an obligation on an insurer  to 
explain this to a consumer on each occasion  that a policy  is renewed.  After all the point of 
continuing to renew  insurance is in order to protect against things that might happen in that 
policy period. 
I know Mr F feels that the updated  policy wording sent to him was irrelevant but I dont 
agree. Aviva  sent Mr F copies of the level of cover he had in place  in any given policy year,  
as they were obliged  to do. Whilst those terms would indeed have been irrelevant to any 
previous policy  years,  they were  applicable to the cover he currently  had in place. So I dont 
think Aviva  did anything  wrong here. 
Mr F says he asked  Aviva, its claims handlers and their panel solicitors  for a meeting but this 
didnt happen.  I appreciate why Mr F was unhappy with this but I cant  direct  Aviva to do 
attend a meeting with him. Thats a commercial decision for it and not one I can become 
involved in. And I cant decide complaints about solicitors.  They  have their own complaints 
procedures and regulator. Mr F should  refer to the panel firm directly should he wish to 
pursue a complaint against them. 
Finally, I know  Mr F is unhappy with the way Aviva have conducted their communications 
with this service and him and that he feels theyve  misled this service.  I can assure Mr F Ive 
looked at everything  the parties  have  said, including the applicable policy  terms when 
reaching my conclusions. Having done  so, Im satisfied that Aviva  havent done anything  
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Aviva  Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8534553