K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 when 
Mr T applied  for a credit card. Mr T says The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) mis-sold him 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr T has said he thinks he applied for the credit  card and PPI by phone,  but Ive not 
seen any evidence  that a phone call took place. RBS have said Mr T applied  by post, 
and have given  us the application  form he completed, so I think thats probably what  
happened. The application form had a separate section for PPI which set out brief details 
of what the cover  was for and asked him to tick a box if he wanted the cover. Mr T has 
ticked that box, and then signed the application  form.  If he hadnt wanted  the PPI then he 
could have left this part of the form blank. So I think RBS made it clear that Mr T didnt 
have to take the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
might not remember this.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr T got the information he needed  to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr T has said he 
had good sick pay, savings, and a separate policy which covered him for accident, 
sickness and disability,  and has provided some paperwork  showing his savings at the 
time and what his separate policy covered. But hes only been able to show  evidence of 
savings that would cover approximately one month of his salary, and the separate  policy 
he had would also have  covered only part of his salary. So given that the PPI could have 
helped cover his credit card repayments for up to 12 months  if he had been too ill to work 
or had become unemployed, I still think it couldve been  useful for him if something went  
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about  that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr T, that was 
unfair. 
Ref: DRN80906742To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr T has said,  but for the reasons explained above 
his points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr T any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  make  any further  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8090674