K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua)  lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card application and later increased his credit  limit. 
Background
Mr C applied for an Aqua credit card and was approved for a £250 credit limit in 
September 2012. In December 2012 Mr C asked Aqua to increase the credit limit. His 
request was approved and the limit was set to £600.
In October  2014 Mr Cs limit was increased  to £1,200. Aqua says it wrote to Mr C and 
offered him the chance to reject the increase  before it was applied.  The credit  limit was 
increased to £2,100 in June 2016. Aqua  says it offered Mr C the chance to turn the increase 
down. 
In 2018 Mr C complained  that Aqua had lent irresponsibly. He said it should have been clear  
the credit  card debt wasnt sustainable  as he had a large amount  of unsecured  credit  and 
payday loans.  Mr C said it should  have been  clear he was experiencing financial difficulties 
and reliant on credit.  Aqua  didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint and said his application  and limit 
increases had been approved in line with its lending criteria. 
Mr C referred  his complaint to our service and an investigator looked  at what  had happened.  
She didnt  agree that the initial  decisions to approve  Mr Cs credit card or the first limit 
increase to £600 were irresponsible. But she upheld Mr Cs complaint about the two later 
limit increases and said Aqua lent irresponsibly. Aqua didnt accept and reiterated that the 
limit increases had met its lending criteria. Mr C responded  to say he accepted  the 
investigators view. As Aqua didnt agree the complaint has been passed  to me to make a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I havent found that Aqua lent irresponsibly when  it approved Mr Cs 
credit card application and gave  him a £250 limit in 2012. Whilst I can see Mr C had a 
reasonably large  amount of unsecured credit, the initial limit was fairly  low. In addition,  there  
doesnt appear to have  been any adverse information on Mr Cs credit file. Aqua also asked 
Mr C about his personal circumstances and income before deciding whether  to proceed.  
Taking everything Aqua knew about Mr C into account, I think its decision to proceed was 
reasonable. 
In December 2012 Aqua agreed to increase  Mr Cs limit to £600. Like the initial  application, I 
think the decision to approve the limit increase to £600 was reasonable based on what Aqua 
knew. The limit was still reasonably low and Im satisfied  Aqua looked at Mr Cs credit file as 
well as the information it held about  him to check  whether the increase was. I think Aquas 
decision was reasonable.  
Ref: DRN88598792I have concerns over the last two credit  limit increases Aqua approved. In October 2014 
Aqua doubled the credit  limit from £600 to £1,200. But Mr Cs credit  file shows he was 
having trouble  managing his other unsecured credit at this time and was often over this 
credit limits. Mr C also had a lot of payday  loans in the run up to Aquas decision to increase 
his limit. 
Aqua is free to decide how to set its lending criteria but it should complete proportionate 
checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I dont think the checks  Aqua 
completed went far enough.  I understand that Aqua may not have had full details  of Mr Cs 
other credit at this time because of the nature of the credit checks  it completed.  But it could 
have taken other approaches, like asking to see his full credit file or completing an income  
and expenditure  assessment for example. Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont 
think the decision to approve the increase to £1,200 in October 2014 was reasonable. If 
Aqua had completed better checks I dont think it would have approved  the limit increase.
As I think  the limit increase to £1,200  was irresponsible, it follows the subsequent  increase to 
£2,100 was irresponsible as well. Again, Ive looked  at the information Aqua had available as 
well as the types of questions  it could  have asked. 
I note that in response to the investigator  Aqua said its policy is not to approve a limit 
increase if an over limit fee had been  charged in the preceding three  months. But Mr Cs file 
shows he was charged over limit fees in two out of the four months  immediately preceding 
this limit increase.  I can also see that Mr C was charged a cash  advance fee in the month 
before the increase. Whilst cash advances arent always a sign of financial difficulty, they 
can be an indicator. And I also note that Aqua had a fuller picture of Mr Cs unsecured  credit  
at this stage. Taking all these points  together, I dont think Aquas decision to approve this 
increase was reasonable either. 
From what  Ive seen, I think Aqua failed to complete proportionate checks  to ensure the 
borrowing it approved  was sustainable. I think its likely  that if Aqua had done better checks it 
wouldnt have offered Mr C either  the October 2014 £1,200 limit or the subsequent  increase 
to £2,100 in June 2016. As a result, I agree this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  NewDay  Ltd to settle in line with 
following:
 Refund all over limit charges applied after October 2014
 Refund all interest applied to balances over £1,200  since  October  2014
 Remove any adverse information  from Mr Cs credit  file from October 2014
 Refunds can be applied to reduce the outstanding balance. In the event  of a
surplus balance,  Aqua should  pay this directly  to Mr C and add 8% interest  from
the date the account moves into a positive  balance to the date of settlement.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8859879