K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how HSBC UK Bank  Plc calculated his repayments  and the interest 
due on his mortgage after he made  lump  sum overpayments. He is also unhappy with how 
his complaint has been handled by HSBC.
background
Mr M has two mortgage accounts with HSBC. In August and September  2018  he made a 
number of lump sum overpayments to these accounts, in addition to his contractual  monthly  
repayments.
In September  2018, after the first set of overpayments, Mr M contacted HSBC to ask why his 
monthly contractual repayment had not reduced. HSBC responded saying it didnt 
automatically recalculate monthly repayments  after an overpayment  was made but if this 
was what a customer wanted they could  let HSBC know and it would arrange this. It said 
that the interest applied would reflect the overpayment.
Mr M contacted HSBC again  on 1 October  2018.  He said that the interest had not been 
calculated correctly to reflect  the overpayments and that what HSBC had said about 
repayments not being automatically recalculated was inconsistent  with a letter  hed received 
at the start of August  2018. He asked  why these errors had happened and what would be 
done to put this right.
HSBC responded  confirming  what it had previously said - it didnt automatically recalculate 
monthly repayments after an overpayment was made. And it said that as the overpayment in 
August was made towards the end of the month,  based on how it calculated interest this was 
why it may not have  had the impact  Mr M was expecting.
Mr M spoke  to HSBC on 2 October  2018 and sent a message confirming he wanted  to raise 
a formal complaint.  
HSBC sent Mr M a letter on 2 October 2018  apologising he had needed  to complain but 
hoped he was satisfied  with how the complaint had been resolved. Mr M believes this was in 
response to the message he sent HSBC on 1 October 2018. Mr M said HSBC was wrong  to 
treat this message as a complaint, when  it was in fact a query. And he asked HSBC to 
explain why it did this.
Correspondence continued between Mr M and HSBC about these issues.  HSBC 
acknowledged in one message that it shouldnt have  sent Mr M a letter on 2 October  2018  
saying his complaint  was resolved as this was not the case. As a result it paid him £50 for 
the inconvenience this caused.  
Mr M remained unhappy with HSBCs  responses so he asked our service to look into the 
complaint. He was unhappy that repayments  were not recalculated  and that HSBC had not 
responded to his request  for a breakdown of how interest had been  calculated. He was also 
concerned interest  mayve been calculated incorrectly for other customers.  Mr M remained 
unhappy his correspondence on 1 October 2018  had been considered a complaint  before 
hed actually confirmed  this. And he also mentioned he was unhappy with HSBCs  systems 
not retaining messages sent online. 
Ref: DRN84865492After the complaint had been  referred to us, HSBC  sent Mr M a final response.  It apologised 
for not responding fully previously and that the service received had not been as it would 
usually expect. HSBC  paid a further £100  into Mr Ms account  for the distress this caused. 
The letter provided  a breakdown of the interest charged,  as Mr M requested. And while,  as it 
had previously said, it was not HSBCs usual process to recalculate  repayments after lump 
sum overpayments  were received unless this was requested, it offered to do so 
retrospectively and make the necessary  adjustments to his accounts.
An investigator considered what had happened. Having done so he didnt think HSBC had 
made an error by not automatically recalculating  Mr Ms monthly repayments. And he didnt 
think it was unreasonable that HSBC had treated the contact from Mr M in October as a 
complaint. He felt that what HSBC had proposed was a fair way to resolve  things. And he 
explained that, as our service is not a regulator, he couldnt really comment on or 
recommend changes to HSBCs systems. 
Mr M asked  for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. He remained concerned HSBC had 
incorrectly considered  his query as a complaint. Mr M also said he wanted our service to 
refer issues around interest calculation  and HSBCs  message  retention policy  to the 
regulator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the information Ive reviewed  that Mr M feels strongly about the issues  hes 
raised and has made a number of detailed points.  Ive taken everything he has said into 
account. But I havent addressed every point he has made individually. Rather Ive focused 
on the overall issues he has complained about.  
Mr M is unhappy  with a number of aspects of his dealings with HSBC and feels there are 
wider issues that the regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority, should  be made aware of. 
My role is to look at individual disputes and decide  what  I think  the fair and reasonable 
resolution is based on the individual merits of the complaint.  So while  Ive taken on board 
Mr Ms comments Ive only looked at how HSBC has treated him here. 
HSBC has told us, and Mr M, if an account holder requests that monthly  repayments  are 
recalculated, after lump sum overpayments are made, it will do so. But its process is not to 
do so automatically. It is for HSBC  to decide  its own internal processes. And we cant  
generally interfere  with these. What  I need to consider  is if the relevant process has been  
followed correctly. I havent  seen anything to suggest that Mr M told HSBC  before making  
the overpayments that he wanted  his monthly  repayments to be recalculated.  So I dont think  
HSBC has done  anything wrong  by not automatically recalculating  them.
Mr M has said that a letter he received from HSBC previously contradicts this. And if there 
has been some confusion this is unfortunate. But it appears HSBC has correctly  followed its 
processes here, when  the overpayments were  received, and gave him the correct 
information about this in response to his enquiries.
Ref: DRN84865493Turning to the interest applied to Mr Ms accounts, HSBC  set out how interest had been 
calculated, and the effect the overpayments had, in its response to Mr M in January 2019. It 
explained that it thought  this had been  done correctly but apologised for not providing an 
explanation sooner. I think  the explanation is quite clear and I havent seen anything that 
leads me to think these  calculations  are incorrect. 
I understand why Mr M was concerned. Hed made quite significant overpayments to the 
account so I can understand why he was expecting the impact  to be greater than it was. But 
it looks to me like the interest  was calculated and applied correctly. So it doesnt look like 
HSBC made  an error.
Overall, it appears that HSBC has not made an error  with the administration  of Mr Ms 
mortgage accounts, after the overpayments  were made.
While I think the explanation given was helpful, HSBC couldve  provided this calculation  to 
Mr M sooner. And the delay likely contributed to Mr Ms unhappiness.  HSBC has 
acknowledged it couldve done better  and paid £100. And I think this is reasonable. 
HSBC also agreed,  in response to Mr Ms complaint,  to retrospectively recalculate  his 
mortgage repayments, as if he had instructed them to do so. Again, as I dont  think it made 
an error in the administration of his accounts to begin with, I think  this is reasonable.
Turning to how HSBC  has handled  Mr Ms complaint  he has asked why the message he 
sent using his online banking portal on 1 October 2018 was treated as a complaint. Mr M 
says the message he sent on 1 October 2018  was a query, much like the one sent in 
September 2018. 
Ive read the messages Mr M sent in September 2018 and on 1 October 2018. While they 
are about  the same  subject, the message on 1 October 2018 included  more detail. It talked 
about errors made by HSBC and asked  what it was going to do to put this right. HSBC has 
explained that its process is to treat an expression of dissatisfaction as a complaint. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable  to assume  from the message received on 1 October 2018 
that Mr M was dissatisfied. Ultimately,  its up to a business to decide whether to treat 
correspondence as a complaint or not. And Mr M hasnt been disadvantaged by HSBC  doing 
so as on 2 October  2018 Mr M confirmed he wanted  to make a formal complaint. He did this 
through the online messaging system and in a phone call, which Ive listened to. So even if 
HSBC had been wrong to think the message sent on 1 October  2018  was a complaint, I 
dont think this has made a difference as the next day Mr M confirmed  he did in fact want to 
complain.
HSBC has also acknowledged  that it shouldnt have sent him the letter dated 2 October  
2018 and paid £50 for the distress  caused.  I think this is fair.
I appreciate Mr M is unhappy with the way HSBC  has described things. And I note he is also 
unhappy with how we have talked about the complaint. But I dont think the terminology used 
changes the outcome of the complaint  so Mr M has not lost out as a result.  
Ref: DRN84865494As Ive explained above I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when administering  his 
accounts. But it offered  to recalculate his monthly  repayments anyway, as if this had been  
requested. And I think this is fair as it hadnt done anything  wrong  to begin with. I also dont 
think that overall it has handled  his complaint incorrectly. It did make a mistake  by sending  a 
letter to Mr M that it shouldnt have, for which it paid £50. And it could  have provided  the 
interest breakdown  to him sooner, for which it paid a further £100. But again  I think  this is 
fair, so I dont think HSBC  needs  to do anything more.
my final decision
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I think HSBC  has dealt with his 
complaint fairly, so Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8486549