K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. Hes being helped  with his complaint by his representative.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr O under a conditional  sale agreement with Close  Brothers 
that he signed in March  2019. There was a banging  noise from the engine  which  caused the 
car to breakdown within a day of it being supplied to him. Mr O returned the car to the dealer 
and repairs were attempted three  times that day but each time the car broke down again. 
Mr O says that he told the dealer that he wanted to reject the car and he contacted Close  
Brothers. But the dealer says that Mr O authorised a further  repair of the car which was 
successful. Mr O hasnt collected  the car from the dealer  and complained to Close Brothers.  
He wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained  to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr O gave 
the dealer three opportunities to repair the car which failed and he believed  that there was a 
durability concern with the car as it broke  down  with a number of issues within  the space of 
24 hours. So he recommended that Close Brothers should: end the agreement and collect  
the car; refund any monthly payments  and the deposit paid by Mr O (all with interest); pay 
him £250 for his distress  and inconvenience;  and remove any adverse  information from 
Mr Os credit file.
Close Brothers has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that Mr O took the car to an auto electrician which  shows  clear intent to have it 
repaired and it was then taken back to the dealer  who was allowed a further opportunity  to 
repair it. It says that it seems that Mr O then had a change of mind but the dealer had 
already confirmed the car was fully repaired and ready to go back. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Mr O was more  than eight  years old, had been driven for 103,000 miles and had a price of 
£5,400. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability which means  that the components  within 
the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that 
time is will depend on a number of factors. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there was a fault with the car within  a day of it 
being supplied  to Mr O and that the dealer had multiple unsuccessful attempts at repairing 
the car within the following  24 hours.
Mr O says that he then asked to reject  the car and that he contacted  Close Brothers about 
doing so. Close Brothers  says that the dealer  says that an auto-electrician diagnosed the 
fault as a brake sensor and the dealer paid to have  the sensor replaced on the 
understanding that Mr O wasnt  rejecting the car. It says that the cars been  repaired.
Ref: DRN87214072Theres no clear evidence  of the conversations between Mr O and the dealer. But its clear 
that there  was a fault with the car when it was supplied to Mr O so Im satisfied that it wasnt  
of satisfactory quality at that time. The dealer had multiple attempts to repair  the car but they 
werent successful and I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr O told the dealer that 
he wanted to reject the car. Her then contacted Close Brothers  about  rejecting the car. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Mr O authorised the brake  
sensor replacement  and I consider that it would  be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for him to able to reject  the car.
I understand that Mr O hasnt collected  the car from the dealer. So I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Close Brothers  to end the agreement and to collect  the car from the 
dealer. Mr O paid a £1,000 cash deposit  for the car and it broke down when it was being 
driven home  by him. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to 
refund to Mr O his deposit and all of the monthly  payments that hes made for the car (all 
with interest). I understand that Mr O has continued  to make the monthly payments under 
the agreement  so theres no reason  for Close Brothers to have  recorded  any adverse 
information about the agreement on his credit file. But if it has done  so, I consider that it 
should remove any such information.
These events have caused  Mr O distress  and inconvenience. I consider that it would also be 
fair and reasonable for Close Brothers  to pay him £250 to compensate him for that distress 
and inconvenience.  
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and I order Close Brothers  
Limited, trading  as Close Brothers Motor Finance,  to:
1.End the conditional  sale agreement  and arrange  for the car to be collected  from the 
dealer  both at no cost to Mr O.
2.Refund to Mr O any deposit that he paid for the car.
3.Refund to Mr O the monthly  payments  that hes made under the agreement.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the agreement is recorded on Mr Os credit  
file.
6.Pay £250 to Mr O to compensate  him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 4 above. Close Brothers  must give Mr O a certificate showing how much  tax 
its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Ref: DRN87214073Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8721407