K821x#15complaint
Mrs H says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five payday loans that Quick  Quid  provided to Mrs H from July 2016  
onwards. Mrs Hs last loan was provided  in August 2017.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Hs complaint about loans three to five and thought that Mrs H 
shouldnt have been provided with these loans. Quick Quid  didnt agree with our adjudicator.  
So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan three would more likely than not 
have shown that:
Ref: DRN82922122the repayment required took up a significant proportion of Mrs Hs monthly income. In 
these circumstances,  there was a significant  risk that Mrs H wouldnt have been able 
to repay  this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing  further. Bearing in mind, Mrs H 
didnt settle loan two during the original term, I dont  think that loan three  being  over 
more than one payment  period  negated this risk.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mrs H, I also think  
that Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that Mrs H was unlikely to have been able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner from loan four onwards. I say this 
because:
by the time of loan four, Mrs H had owed Quick Quid money for a period of 
approaching ten months. As previously explained loan two had been deferred and 
the amounts for loan three and loan four increased. In my view,  Mrs H owing Quick  
Quid money for this period of time,  in these  circumstances, was in itself a clear 
demonstration of Mrs Hs inability  to settle her loans over the life of the credit 
agreement.  
Mrs H was given loans for a period that cannot  reasonably be described as short-
term. And, in my view,  Mrs H paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service an 
increasing debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mrs H lost out because Quick  Quid provided these loans because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Hs indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Mrs Hs ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mrs Hs complaint about  loans  three to five and Quick  Quid  should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs H paid on loans three to five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  about loan three from Mrs Hs credit file;
the period  of time Mrs H owed Quick Quid money  means that any information  still 
recorded about loans four and five is adverse.  So all entries about these loans should 
be removed from Mrs Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN82922123my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8292212