K822xcomplaint
Mr R and Miss P complain that when they wanted to transfer their mortgage  to a new 
property, The Co-operative Bank Plc trading  as Platform,  would only offer them  new 
borrowing on its standard variable rate (SVR).
background 
In October  2017, Mr R and Miss P took a mortgage with Platform.  It had a fixed  interest rate 
of 1.94% until November  2022.
Mr R and Miss P looked into moving home and transferring their Platform  mortgage to 
another property.  But they found out that Platform would charge its SVR on any new 
borrowing  and that it would charge an early repayment charge (ERC) if they repaid the 
mortgage. Mr R and Miss P say that they lost a sale as they werent able to proceed on 
those terms.
Platform later agreed  to waive the ERC   and Mr R and Miss P moved  to a new home  with a 
mortgage from another lender. They complain:
Platform, should have  offered them new borrowing at the same interest rate as the 
existing fixed interest  rate.
They paid Platform a £1,000 product fee for a portable mortgage  theyve had to pay 
another product fee to another lender because they couldnt port the mortgage. They 
wouldnt have taken  the mortgage with Platform  if they knew that they couldnt  port the 
mortgage. And they had to pay an ERC to their previous lender to move  to Platform.
Platform kept the £250  cashback  it had given Mr R and Miss P when the mortgage  was 
repaid.
Subject to any further submissions, my provisional decision was to uphold this complaint. I 
found, in summary:
The term in the mortgage offer about  the interest rate charged on the additional 
borrowing wasnt clear or fair  and Platform had accepted that.
Platform had already waived the ERC  that applied  to the mortgage.
I would  look to put Mr R and Miss P back in the positon they would have  been  in had 
they been treated fairly and reasonably   so if Platform had set out that any additional 
borrowing would be on its SVR. I was satisfied that Mr R and Miss P always intended to 
move home and borrow more money  in the short term. So I didnt think they would have 
taken the mortgage  with Platform.
I needed to decide what Mr R and Miss P would have done differently  if they had been 
given the correct information.  They would  have had two choices  remain with their 
previous lender or move  to a new lender. But in either case,  I couldnt  see that they 
would have been any better  off. So they hadnt suffered any financial loss.
Platform should pay Mr R and Miss P £300 to reflect the trouble and upset theyve  
experienced as a result of this matter   including the wasted time and effort  of applying 
Ref: DRN86839492to Platform and the disappointment  of discovering  the mortgage didnt operate  as they 
reasonably expected it to.
Mr R and Miss P and Platform both accepted my provisional findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and as both sides  have 
accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to reach a different  decision here.  So Im 
upholding the complaint  for the same reasons as set out above.
I note that Mr R and Miss P have asked that Platform pay them  £150 each, as they dont 
have a joint bank  account. 
my final decision
My final decision is that The Co-operative Bank  Plc should pay:
Mr R £150 for any trouble and upset; and
Miss P £150 for any trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 Septemebr 2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8683949