K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited failed to adjust his premiums or 
allowances after it recovered the cost of his claim under his private medical insurance policy.
background
In February 2013,  Mr D sustained an injury  in an accident for which  a third party  was 
responsible. Mr D required  treatment  of his injury  for which BUPA  agreed  to provide cover.
Mr D took legal action  against the third party. He informed BUPA and it asked that it be 
enjoined in the action  to recover  its treatment costs.
The legal action  was settled and in October  2014 BUPA  fully recovered the costs it had 
incurred in respect of treatment for Mr Ds injury.
Mr D asked BUPA to credit him back in some  way, either through  his premiums or through  
his policy  benefits.
BUPA wouldnt do this. It said that due to how long it sometimes  took to settle third party 
claims, it was difficult to make adjustments  to a policyholders premium or benefits which 
might go back  years.  It furthermore said that, in any case, even if Mr D hadnt claimed for the 
treatment in question, he would still have  been  charged the same  premium in subsequent  
years due to other claims he had made  which were  unrelated to the accident.
Mr D was unhappy at BUPAs response  and referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, 
having recovered its outlay, BUPA should have retrospectively recalculated Mr Ds no claims 
discount (NCD). However,  she noted  that even if it had done so, this would have made  no 
difference to the NCD or to the premium  Mr D would  have paid.  Therefore,  BUPAs failure to 
take this action hadnt caused him any loss. She furthermore thought BUPA  should  have 
been prepared  to adjust Mr Ds benefit allowances for the years in question but again she 
noted he hadnt shown that its failure  to do so had resulted in any loss for him. She 
considered that it was under no obligation to take any action beyond this.
Mr D didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He said that if BUPA  deducted the settlement it 
received in 2014 from his claims costs for that policy year,  it would have meant he wouldnt 
have suffered a reduction in his NCD.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy has a section  headed Treatment  needed because  of someone elses fault.  This 
explains that when  treatment is needed  for an injury which was caused  by a third party,  the 
policyholder must inform  BUPA  of this and take such reasonable steps  as BUPA  requests to 
Ref: DRN82415882recover the treatment  costs from the third party on its behalf. Im therefore satisfied that 
BUPA was within its rights to ask Mr D to recover the costs it had paid for his treatment.
BUPA successfully recovered  its costs within two years of the accident  but then refused to 
recalculate Mr Ds premium. I think BUPA  was wrong on this point. Our approach is that, 
given it has no longer incurred claim costs,  we would  expect  the insurer  to put the consumer 
back in the position they would have been  in if the claim had never  been  made  by 
retrospectively adjusting  their NCD and refunding any excess premium.
In this case, however, BUPA has shown that even if it were to follow  the above process, it 
would make no difference to Mr Ds premium. This is because he made  other, unrelated 
claims in the policy years  starting  in 2012/13 and 2013/14 which would still have affected his 
NCD in the same way. Im therefore satisfied that BUPAs failure to follow  the process it 
should have done hasnt  caused Mr D any loss.
Mr D points out that if the entirety of the settlement were to be set against his claims costs in 
the policy year 2013/14, his NCD  would  have been different. That might  be the case, but I 
wouldnt expect an insurer to allocate  the recovered  costs in this way. Instead, I think it is 
fairer for an insurer to take the approach as highlighted  above,  so that the recovered  costs 
are allocated to the policy  year in which they were  incurred.
The adjudicator also understood  that Mr D was suggesting that the recovered costs should  
have been used to replenish  his policy benefits, such  as his outpatient allowance, in the 
current policy year. I note that Mr D seems  to dispute he was asking for this. However, for 
the avoidance of doubt, let me confirm my position. I think  that once BUPA had recovered its 
costs, it should have retrospectively disregarded  the relevant claims,  not only for the 
purposes of the NCD but also for the purposes  of any limitation  of benefit, such as in respect 
of outpatient treatment. This means that if Mr D was prevented from making other, unrelated  
claims in the policy years  of 2012/13 and 2013/14  due to the claims relating to his accident, 
he should be allowed  to present these  to BUPA for its retrospective consideration. However, 
Mr D hasnt shown that he was prevented from making such claims and so hasnt shown he 
suffered any loss. I dont  consider that BUPA is any way required to credit  Mr D in future 
years with the money it recovered.
Finally, I understand  that Mr D thinks BUPA should take the recovered  funds into account 
when it calculates  future  premiums for him and all other policyholders. However, BUPA  has 
confirmed that the amount of money  it recovered is too small to have a material effect  on its 
policyholders premiums generally. And in any case,  we wouldnt normally tell an insurer  
what it should take into account  when  setting its premiums because  we would consider that 
to be a matter for its commercial judgement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8241588