K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni)  wont  accept that a fixed 
sum loan (Loan) it gave her was mis-sold  by the broker acting on its behalf.
background
In January 2018 Ms R signed up for an online education course (course)  with a supplier 
that I will call E, for the benefit of her child, at a cost of £3,590.
Ms R paid a £35.90 deposit and financed the remaining £3,554.10 with a loan from Omni. 
The total amount  payable  under the loan was £3,554.10 payable over 48 months. Ms Rs 
monthly repayments were  around  £74. 
In August  2018  Ms R complained to Omni that the course had been mis-sold  in particular 
she had been  advised, incorrectly, that she would be paying E monthly  for the course (not 
Omni) and that she could cancel at any time with nothing further to pay.
In October  2018 Omni wrote to Ms R to say that it wasnt upholding her complaint because  it 
was satisfied that she was aware,  or ought to have reasonably been aware, that she was 
financing the course  by way of a loan with it.
Unhappy with Omnis response to her complaint, Ms R referred  it to our service.  
Ms Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded  that it should 
be upheld. In summary she said:
Contrary to Es sales process,  the loan paperwork appears to have  been  completed 
before the course enrolment paperwork and the self-declaration letter of affordability.
She found Ms Rs submission that she understood she was paying E monthly for the 
course (not Omni) and that the same could be cancelled at any time with nothing  
further to pay to be both plausible  and persuasive.
Ms R has been consistent in her testimony throughout.
Having concluded  that Ms Rs complaint  should  be upheld,  the investigator went on to 
explain what  Omni should have to do to fairly  compensate Ms R. This was to:
Arrange for the loan to be cancelled  with nothing further to be paid.
Remove all record  of the loan from Ms Rs credit files.
Refund all payments made towards the loan after the date on which Ms R sought to 
cancel.
Arrange to collect from Ms R  at no cost to her  any electronic equipment supplied 
by E as part of the course,  for example any laptop.
Ms R responded to say that she accepted the investigators conclusions.
Ref: DRN80442522Omni responded to say that it didnt accept the investigators conclusions.  In doing so it said,  
in summary:
The various paperwork  had, in its view, been completed in the right order. Ms R 
would have needed to know that she would be accepted for a loan before applying  
for the course. To do it the other way around  could cause all concerned a lot of 
wasted time.
It then went on to say, in summary:
Given that representatives from E would normally  spend one and half hours 
(sometimes longer)  in a customers home to fully explain the courses,  conduct  
suitability assessments, explain the finance options and complete the various 
applications and documentation then it follows that the process may vary on 
occasions from that advocated and promoted by E.
Its not known what  was discussed between  Es representative and Ms R so it cant 
be said with any certainty  that completing  the loan paperwork before the course 
enrolment paperwork and the self-declaration of affordability was incorrect. Its quite 
possible that Ms R might have expressed concerns about her ability  to pay. 
Furthermore it might have been difficult and uncomfortable for all those involved if 
Ms R had first gone through all the other  formalities to then be declined  finance  at the 
last.
Ms R could  and should have known  she was entering a fixed sum loan agreement 
given the customer  clarification and satisfaction form she signed and initialled.
Ms R could  and should have known  she was entering a fixed sum loan agreement 
given she electronically signed paperwork headed up as such and given that she 
electronically signed directly below the statement  only sign this agreement when you 
are satisfied  that the loan and agreement terms are right for you.
Ms R could  and should have known  she had entered a fixed sum loan agreement  
given a copy of the same was sent to her by email  after completion.
Ms R could  and should have known  she had entered a fixed sum loan agreement  
given she was sent an email outlining the key details of the same and the date of her 
first direct debit.
The investigator considered Omnis  responses but wasnt persuaded to change  her mind. 
Therefore Ms Rs complaint was passed  to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in September 2020. In summary  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ms R has made several related complaint points. Shes  said she wasnt properly 
informed about  the fact she was signing up for a loan and she thought  she was just 
paying for the course monthly  by direct debit.  Shes  also said she was told she could 
cancel the course  at any time, with nothing  further to pay, but this wasnt the case. 
So shes  complaining that she was given  incorrect information about both the course 
and the financial  arrangements  used  to fund it. 
Ref: DRN80442523When someone buys goods or services using the type of loan Omni has provided  in 
this case, they can make  a claim against  their lender for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation made by the supplier  of the goods or services,  so long as certain 
conditions are met. 
This consumer protection is provided by Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. More generally,  where a loan of this type is sold by a credit broker then the 
lender is responsible for incorrect information  given by the broker  about the loan and 
the underlying  purchase. This is because, due to Section 56 of the Consumer  Credit  
Act 1974,  the broker is treated as acting as the lenders agent. What  this means in 
this case, is that Ms R can complain to Omni if E had made  incorrect  statements 
about the financial arrangements. She can also complain about a failure by E to 
honour the terms of its agreement with her, or about incorrect  information E gave her 
about the learning programme. 
Ms R says that Es representative told her that she would be paying  E monthly for the 
course (not Omni) and that she could cancel  at any time with nothing further to pay. 
In other  words, no reference to a loan (with Omni or any other party) was ever made  
by Es representative.
Omni says the documentary evidence contradicts what  Ms R says on this point.
Ive considered the evidence that exists  of the discussions  Ms R had with E prior to 
her entering the loan agreement. There is no recording of these conversations, which  
means Ive had to rely on what Ms R, Omni and E are saying now,  the documents  
which were signed  at the time, and any other relevant evidence. 
Omni says that Ms R should  have been  aware she was taking out a loan given the 
customer clarification and satisfaction form she signed and initialled. But I dont think 
this form is particularly clear.
The first two statements, initialled by Ms R, state:
Youve chosen  to pay for your Lifetime Licence  from [E] by way of finance.
Your Lifetime Licence will be paid for by 48 monthly  instalments totalling  £3,590
Now in my view the term finance can be interpreted a number of ways, including  
paying E directly  on a monthly basis with the right to cancel at any time with nothing 
further to pay. And reference to 48 monthly  payments  could be interpreted as 
meaning the total number of payments that would  need to be made in the event Ms R 
elected not to cancel  as she says she understood she had the right to do.
There are some further points on the customer clarification and satisfaction  form 
relating to the loan, but they are all worded conditionally. For example, Youve 
electronically signed the finance agreement (where finance is your chosen method of 
payment) 
Ref: DRN80442524Now in my view Ms R would have viewed these points as irrelevant to her if she 
hadnt believed  she was using a loan to pay for the course. So if she had been given 
incorrect information about these arrangements by Es representative, I dont think  
the customer clarification and satisfaction  form would necessarily have cleared 
matters up. 
Now I accept that Ms R electronically signed a loan agreement and might have 
received one or more emails pertaining to the same. But I find it quite plausible that 
Ms R relied on what she says she was told verbally  when signing  the loan agreement  
and paid no or very little attention to what she was later sent by email.
As pointed  out by the investigator  E has shared with our service the sales  process  it 
requires its representatives to follow. And this states  that the last thing to be done 
(where a loan is needed or requested)  is for the loan agreement to be signed  by the 
consumer.
But in this case, and contrary to Es sales process, Ms R electronically signed  a loan 
agreement half an hour before  she electronically signed the course enrolment 
paperwork and the self-declaration letter of affordability.
Now Ive considered  what Omni  has said on this point,  but ultimately Im not 
convinced by it. 
I find the deviation  from the sales process  to be concerning and something Ive 
considered when thinking about the relative  credibility of Ms Rs and Omnis 
respective submissions. 
In the particular circumstances of this case its my view that the suitability  of the 
course and whether the same  was affordable ought to have been discussed  with 
Ms R before the signing  of the loan agreement.  
I say this because  if the course wasnt suitable  Ms R would have ended up with a 
loan that served  no purpose.  And I simply dont understand why Ms R would have 
been signed up for a loan before the affordability  of the same had been discussed 
with her.
All these  things indicate to me its more  likely  than not that Es representative didnt 
explain things appropriately  and its possible they didnt disclose the contents of the 
paperwork as Ms R submits.
Like the investigator, I find Ms Rs account  of events credible. It has been consistent  
throughout. The customer clarification and satisfaction form she signed is also 
ambiguous enough that its not unreasonable of her to have held a belief  that she 
was paying monthly  on a cancellable pay as you go type arrangement.  On the other 
hand, the credibility of Es representative is, in my view,  called into doubt by the 
deviation from Es sales process requirements.
So on balance, Im inclined to believe  Ms R. I think its probable she was told she 
could cancel the arrangement at any time, and that she was unaware she was 
signing up for a loan.
Ref: DRN80442525As I say above I accept  that Ms R typed her name into an electronic device, or ticked 
a box, and this meant she had signed  for a loan.  But Im inclined to believe her when 
she says she didnt  understand,  based  on what she was told verbally, that was what 
she was doing.
Ultimately, I think  Ms R was misled by E into signing for both the course and the loan.
Because the relevant  legislation  means  E, in brokering the loan, was acting as 
Omnis agent, Ms R can hold Omni  responsible for what has happened. So it needs 
to act to put things right. 
I went on to say Omni should, as far as possible,  put Ms R back in the position she would 
have been in, had she not been misled. And had she not been misled  I didnt think it was 
likely shed  have purchased the course or signed  the fixed sum loan agreement.  I then went  
on to outline what  Omni  should have to do to fairly  compensate Ms R.
Ms R responded to say she accepted my provisional  decision and had nothing further to 
add.
Omni didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision  by the date given, despite more than 
reminder from our service to do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Ms R responded to my provisional  decision to say that she accepted it and Omni 
didnt respond  to it I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm 
them as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Omni Capital Retail  Finance Limited 
must, for the reasons  Ive given:
Refund all repayments  Ms R has made under  the fixed  sum loan agreement  (with the 
exception of the first six and the deposit paid to E), adding  8% simple  interest  per 
year* to the refunded  repayments, calculated from the date Ms R originally made 
them, to the date the refund is paid.  I think its fair that Omni should be able to keep 
the deposit and first six monthly  payments made because  during this period Ms Rs 
child derived, or could  have  derived, some benefit from the course.
Close the fixed sum loan agreement and end any current  or future liability  Ms R has 
under it. 
Remove the fixed sum loan agreement from Ms Rs credit  file. 
Arrange for the ending of any services  and the collection of any goods supplied  
under the fixed  sum loan agreement, including any device offered as an incentive to 
purchase (for example  a laptop). This must be done at no cost to Ms R.
Ref: DRN80442526**HM Revenue & Customs requires Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited  to take tax off this 
interest. Omni Capital  Retail Finance Limited must  give Ms R a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off, if Ms R asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8044252