K820x#14complaint
Miss G, on behalf of her daughter Miss D, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC changed the 
details of the trustee on Miss Ds account.  Miss G also complains  that Lloyds incorrectly  told 
her that she had agreed the outcome of the complaint during a telephone call.
background
Miss G says she opened an account for her daughter in 2012 and was the only signatory  on 
it. She went  into a Lloyds branch on 21 May 2019  to withdraw money  from the account for a 
holiday. But was told she was not authorised to withdraw money as her details were  not 
recorded on the account. The account  was blocked and Miss G says she was humiliated and 
asked about a person I will call Miss T whom  is Miss Gs ex-partners grandmother and 
someone whom had tried to take her daughter  off her via court  proceedings.
Miss G says she would  like to know how this mistake happened and says Lloyds failed to 
protect the account.  She says she didnt accept the compensation offer over the telephone  
despite what Lloyds  letter says and has been  told she needs  to open a new account. Miss G 
says the compensation doesnt  cover  whats taken place and believes a criminal offence  has 
taken place.
Lloyds accepts it made a mistake but cant explain why Miss T was added as trustee  on the 
account. It says it now has no way of correcting the mistake but says its compensation offer 
of £515 takes  account of the inconvenience.
Miss G brought the complaint to us and our investigator accepted that Lloyds made a 
mistake. The investigator thought he couldnt  determine if this was a criminal offence  but 
didnt think any letters were sent to Miss T by Lloyds. The investigator  didnt  think it possible 
to know why the mistake  happened but thought overall the compensation offer was 
appropriate.
Miss G doesnt accept that view and says the compensation doesnt take account of the 
inconvenience of opening a new account  and that the existing account had sentimental 
value.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Lloyds has dealt  fairly  with this complaint. I realise Miss G will be disappointed by 
my decision  but I make  clear  that Miss D is the complainant here as she is the account  
holder and so I have  to consider the impact  the mistake had on her.
There is no question here that Lloyds made a mistake which it cant  explain. And I 
appreciate the depth of feeling Miss G has towards Miss T and the impact  of the court  
proceedings. But I also have to consider that its also likely that Miss T was unaware  that she 
had been added to the account and that any correspondence was sent to the correct 
address. And I dont  think Miss Ds account was accessed by anyone  else or that she lost 
any of her money.
I appreciate that Miss G says she was humiliated  in the branch when she was told she had 
no authority to withdraw money and I have no doubt she was caused a great deal of distress  
in finding out what had happened.  But as I explained I have to largely consider the impact on 
Ref: DRN89201812Miss D rather  than Miss G for the reasons I explained. Having done so Ive come to the 
overall view that Lloyds compensation offer is fair and reasonable and fairly takes into 
account that there may be further inconvenience  to Miss D in opening a new account.
I have listened  to the calls between the parties and I appreciate Miss Gs frustration  that she 
failed Lloyds security  yet an incorrect person was added to her daughters account. I can also 
see that Miss G would like to know if a criminal offence has taken place. But as the 
investigator has explained that would  be for a court  to determine and not us.
Overall Im satisfied the compensation offer is fair and reasonable and I dont require Lloyds 
to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate  that Miss G is likely 
to remain unhappy  with my decision but I think that brings an end to what we in trying to sort 
out this complaint informally  can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G on behalf  
of Miss D to accept or reject my decision  before 1 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8920181