K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr B says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the application form for the credit card. I can see its the type 
of application  that would  have been completed at a branch. So I think  Mr B applied for the 
credit card and was sold the PPI during a meeting at a branch.
I can see the application form contains a section about PPI. I note a box has been marked  
with a cross  to add PPI to the account. 
The cross was printed  on the application form and Ive thought about this. The application 
form contains details  of Mr Bs circumstances  at the time.  So I think  the form was probably 
completed during  a discussion, then printed and passed to Mr B to check  and sign. So I think 
its likely  the PPI was discussed and accepted by Mr B during this conversation.  
The PPI premiums would have appeared on Mr Bs monthly statements for some  years until 
it was cancelled. If Mr B had not agreed  to the PPI, or didnt want it, Id expect him to have 
questioned it at an early  stage. But Ive not see any evidence that he did so.
Overall I think  it is likely Halifax made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this after so many 
years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was, I say this for the 
following reasons:
Mr B wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  For example he 
wasnt in unusual employment circumstances, and didnt have any medical  conditions  that 
would not have been covered. So Mr B would have been able to make a claim on the policy 
if hed needed  to.
Mr B has told us hed receive full sick pay from his employer for up to six months. After that 
any sick pay would be down to management  discretion, so not guaranteed. But the PPI 
couldve paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months  if Mr B couldnt  work. And the benefit 
would be paid in addition to any sick pay. So I still think Mr B would  have found  the policy 
useful if he had became  unwell,  particularly  if he was unable to work for a prolonged period.
The PPI would also have  paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months if Mr B had lost his job. 
And as he had only been with his employer for around one year at the time it is likely he 
would have received only modest redundancy pay.
Ref: DRN86696432Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr B off taking  
out the cover. 
In summary,  I think Mr B was most  likely made  aware the policy  was optional and he chose 
to add it to his account. I think  the policy was right for him. And even if Halifax gave him all 
the clear information  it should have, I think Mr B would still have bought  the policy.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8669643