K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy Aldermore Bank Plc rejected  his mortgage application after initially 
agreeing a Decision in Principle.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. I explained that a Decision in 
Principle (DIP) isnt a guarantee of lending  and that Aldermore hadnt done anything  wrong  
in relying on the valuers conclusion when making a decision on whether to lend to Mr R.
Mr R responded to my decision. He said Aldermores criteria isnt clear  and its very vague. 
Mr R remains  of the opinion that as 25% of the flats in the block are under private ownership, 
this is a significant amount.
Aldermore replied to my decision and confirmed they didnt  have anything  further  to add.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not upholding 
Mr Rs complaint.
As Ive already  explained in my provisional decision, Aldermore relied on the valuers 
conclusions on what they deemed as a meaningful  level  of private  ownership  in the block of 
flats. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Aldermore to rely on this information.
I note Mr Rs comment that Aldermores criteria  isnt clear  and that its vague. Ultimately,  
Aldermore are able to set their own criteria  and include the relevant and necessary  detail  in 
the criteria. As I explained in my provisional  decision, Im satisfied  that Aldermore applied  
their criteria fairly when deciding whether to lend to Mr R.
Ref: DRN85543782my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85543783copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr R is unhappy Aldermore Bank Plc rejected his mortgage application after initially  agreeing a 
Decision in Principle.
background
Mr R applied for a mortgage  with Aldermore  through a broker in 2019.  Following the initial  application, 
Aldermore issued a Decision in Principle (DIP) taking into consideration the information  provided by 
Mr Rs broker  at the time. Mr R is unhappy Aldermore  decided not to proceed with the mortgage  after 
he paid the valuation fee for the property to be valued. Mr R has asked  for the valuation fee to be 
refunded.
Aldermore say the DIP issued to Mr R wasnt  a guarantee theyd proceed to a mortgage offer. 
Aldermore say the valuation report was a key part of the application process. They also say the 
valuation report confirmed the property was an ex-local  authority flat within an investor led 
development and also that there was a low level of private ownership  within the block. Aldermore say 
whilst ex-local authority flats are acceptable under their lending criteria,  they had concerns  over the 
low level of private  ownership within the property and it was for this reason  they decided to not 
proceed with Mr Rs application. Lastly, Aldermore  say that the valuation  fee is non-refundable and 
that this was confirmed in Mr Rs illustration. Therefore, they wont be refunding the fee.
Our investigator looked into this complaint. He said Aldermore hadnt  done anything wrong  as it was 
their commercial decision  on who they provide a mortgage  to and on what  terms. He also said he 
didnt think Aldermore needed to refund Mr R the valuation fee as the DIP confirmed this fee was non-
refundable. Mr R didnt  agree. He explained why he didnt  think the reason provided by Aldermore  for 
not proceeding  with his mortgage  application was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to uphold  the complaint and Ill explain  
why.
Aldermore say they werent aware,  when they were first contacted by Mr Rs broker, of the information 
which led to them deciding not to proceed with Mr Rs mortgage. Mr R has cited  his interpretation  of 
the sales  figures and believes the level of private ownership in the property is not unreasonable  for 
lending purposes.
I think  its important to explain lenders  are able to use their commercial judgement and can decide 
who to lend to and on what basis; provided that they apply their judgement  fairly and reasonably. A 
DIP isnt a guarantee of lending and doesnt constitute an offer to lend. A lender can change  their 
mind about  whether they wish to lend to a customer if further  information  comes to light after the initial 
application.
Ive had a look at Mr Rs DIP and I cant see that the information about the level of private ownership 
in the property  was shared with Aldermore at that point. Once  it came to their attention  through the 
valuation report, Aldermore made a decision  not to lend to Mr R. I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
them to rely on the information provided by the valuer to decide not to proceed with the mortgage.  So 
I dont think Aldermore have  done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN85543784Mr R says as 25% of the flats in the block are under private ownership, this is a meaningful level of 
private ownership and therefore  meets  Aldermores criteria. I asked for Aldermores comments on this 
point. They said they relied on the valuers  conclusion  on what  they deemed as meaningful and 
evidently they decided  25% wasnt. Ive thought about this and, while  I recognise that it is subjective 
and appreciate what Mr R has said about this, I dont think it was wrong or unreasonable for 
Aldermore to rely on the valuers conclusion.
I note Mr Rs comment that hed like a refund of the valuation fee as he feels he is out of pocket. Ive 
had a look at Mr Rs DIP and I can see it says the valuation fee is non-refundable once the valuation 
has been carried out. So I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask Aldermore to refund the valuation 
fee as they dont contractually  have to and based on the circumstances, I cant  say it was unfair that 
they havent refunded this fee.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not intending  to uphold  Mr Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN8554378