K820x#14complaint
Through a claims management  company (CMC) Mr and Mrs P have complained that a 
mortgage was mis-sold  to them in 2005  by a representative of Legal  & General Partnership 
Services Limited (L&G). Specifically, Mr and Mrs P say that the interest-only mortgage that 
they were advised  to take out wasnt what they wanted, nor was it suitable for their needs.
background
Mr and Mrs P bought a property in July 2003, with an interest-only mortgage.  In 2005 they 
decided to move house. Mr and Mrs P spoke to L&G about  arranging a new mortgage. 
After taking advice  from L&G,  Mr and Mrs P took out a new mortgage,  borrowing £144,495 
on an interest-only basis, over a term of 25 years. The mortgage  was on a fixed  rate of 
5.85% until 31 March 2008,  during  which time an early repayment  charge (ERC) would  apply 
to any overpayments. After that date, unlimited overpayments could be made, which  would 
be applied  towards  reducing the capital balance of the mortgage. 
The information available from 2005  shows that, due to their limited  deposit and issues with 
their credit history,  an interest-only mortgage  was the most  suitable option, in order  to meet 
lending criteria. Its recorded that Mr and Mrs P were comfortable  with the mortgage balance 
not being repaid by the end of the term, on the basis that they were  paying only the interest. 
The mortgage completed on 27 June 2005. 
Mr and Mrs P have  now complained that an interest-only mortgage wasnt  suitable for them. 
They say (and I summarise)  that a repayment vehicle wasnt  discussed with them and that, 
as they had sufficient income to afford a repayment  mortgage, this should have been 
arranged for them instead.
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint so it was brought to us. L&G didnt think  the complaint fell 
within our jurisdiction, due to the time that had elapsed since the mortgage was arranged. 
On 22 April 2020 an ombudsman decided the complaint  was within  jurisdiction.
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  The CMC asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint. L&G also still argued that the complaint was out 
of time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, in relation to the time limits  that apply, I confirm Ive read the Ombudsman Pughs 
decision dated 20 April 2020 and I agree with his conclusions. Im satisfied this is a 
complaint we can consider.
What isnt in dispute is the following:
Mr and Mrs P knew they had an interest-only mortgage;
they also knew they had no repayment vehicle.
Ref: DRN85557182Ive looked at the information available from 2005.  There are some contradictions in what 
Mr and Mrs P have  told us and what the contemporaneous documents show.  The anomalies  
over the address were dealt with by Ombudsman  Pugh  in his jurisdiction decision. But there 
are contradictions  in what Mr and Mrs P confirmed on the application and the claim that has 
been put forward by their CMC.
Mr and Mrs P said on the mortgage  application that they were not repaying their existing 
mortgage, for which they were paying  £766  per month. This is supported  by Land Registry 
information, which shows that they didnt  sell their previous property until February  2008.  
I also note that Mr and Mrs P were directors of a limited company and on forms filed at 
Companies House  were still giving their address  as their previous  property  after July 2005  
and didnt change  the registered office to their new address until 3 March 2008.  So the 
evidence is persuasive  that Mr and Mrs P did, in fact, keep their other property when they 
moved to their new one and didnt sell it until February 2008. 
In the circumstances, based  on the evidence, it appears that Mr and Mrs P had two 
mortgage commitments after they completed the mortgage arranged  for them  by L&G.  I find 
that there  was not, as the CMC claims,  a Land  Registry error which  showed  that the 
previous property hadnt been sold until February  2008.
The regulatory requirements for mortgage  lending have changed substantially over the 
years. But I can only consider this complaint based on the regulations and normal  industry 
practice at the time, and without  the use of hindsight or the latest  rules.  In 2005 interest-only  
mortgages were common, particularly where  (as in this case) an element of the borrowers  
income came from self-employment.
I think the documentation from 2005 could  have been clearer in explaining why an interest-
only mortgage had been recommended, and I agree that the lack of recorded discussion 
about a repayment strategy  is of concern. However,  in relation to interest-only mortgages, 
there was also a great deal more latitude regarding what could be considered  a suitable 
repayment vehicle  than there  is now.  
Given Mr and Mrs P were  keeping their existing interest-only mortgage at a cost of nearly 
£800 per month,  as well as a car payment  of around  £140  per month, I dont think  Mr and 
Mrs Ps disposable income  was as high as is now claimed by the CMC.  In the 
circumstances, I think  Mr and Mrs P were driven by having lower  monthly  repayments  at the 
start of the mortgage, during the fixed-rate  period.  In the circumstances, I agree with the 
investigator that the initial aim was to keep monthly repayments low, and this is particularly 
so given that the evidence  shows that Mr and Mrs P were keeping their previous property 
and mortgage.  
Ref: DRN85557183I note that, once the ERC period had expired on 31 March 2008, Mr and Mrs P were  free to 
make overpayments without incurring any charge. If it is the argument now that they could 
easily have afforded  a capital repayment  mortgage,  then after 31 March 2008 (by which time 
theyd sold their previous  property and so freed up an additional  £800  per month), Mr and 
Mrs P could have begun making  overpayments,  either monthly or in a lump sum, so their 
mortgage could  be repaid  by the end date.  Alternatively, once they no longer had two 
mortgages, Mr and Mrs P could have paid the additional £800 per month into an investment 
product as a repayment vehicle for their mortgage.
I also note that the evidence  shows that, even though Mr and Mrs P had disclosed only a 
£6,000 car loan in 2005, by 2007 theyd needed  to take out a second charge secured loan of 
almost £38,000, over a term of 25 years. I am told that some of this was for home 
improvements, but some  (an undisclosed  amount)  was for debt consolidation. So it would 
appear that, rather than a repayment mortgage being  affordable,  Mr and Mrs P had in fact 
gone into debt,  which they needed  to consolidate into a second charge secured loan within a 
relatively short time of taking out this mortgage. This suggests  that a capital repayment  
mortgage would not have  been affordable at the outset.  
Overall, on balance, I think it is more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs P wanted to keep  their 
repayments low at the outset, as they were not selling their other  property. And I think Mr 
and Mrs P knew, or would  have  known from the advice they were  given and the mortgage  
offer, that they were  free to make overpayments once the ERC period had expired. 
Given this, I dont think the recommendation was unsuitable, after taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Ps specific circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2021.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8555718