K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained, on behalf  of his limited company that Society  of Lloyds (Lloyds) 
refused to accept a claim he wanted  to make  under his business legal expenses insurance 
policy. 
For the sake of clarity when I refer to Mr Es claim and policy I am referring  to the claim and 
policy taken on behalf of Mr Es limited  company  and not Mr E as an individual  consumer.  
When I refer to Lloyds  I mean  both the underwriter and any agents working on its behalf.
background
Mr E has a business insurance policy for his limited  company. Earlier this year he contacted 
Lloyds to explain he had been evicted by his landlord and wanted to make  a claim under his 
policy.
Lloyds explained  that the policy  didnt provide cover for eviction or loss of stock due to 
eviction.
Mr E reviewed the policys wording and asked Lloyds to start a claim for loss or damage to 
the premises on the basis that his landlord  could be defined as a malicious person and as 
such would  be covered under the policy.
Lloyds responded by explaining that within the context of Mr Es situation his landlord 
wouldnt be considered  a malicious  person and refused to consider his claim any further.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Es complaint already. They found that Lloyds were 
entitled to decline  the claim and that Mr Es landlord wouldnt be considered  a malicious  
person as per the intention of the policy.
Mr E disagreed. He responded by providing  various dictionary definitions  of the word 
person and malicious to clarify  why he thought  his claim should be accepted by Lloyds. 
He requested an ombudsman review  his complaint and so it has been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold 
the complaint  and Id like to explain why. 
The section of the policy Mr E believes provides him cover  states  the following:
.we will pay for loss or damage  to the Premises during the Period of Insurance caused by 
the following  events:
6. Riot, civil commotion,  strikers,  persons taking part in labour disturbances  or 
malicious persons  or vandalism. 
While I accept Mr Es submissions that his landlord can be defined as a person as per the 
standard dictionary definition of the word, I dont agree that the landlords behaviour, in this 
context, cant be defined  as malicious.
Ref: DRN84753122I understand why Mr E feels  his landlords  behaviour was malicious. The intention of the 
section of the policy Mr E wants to rely on to claim was never  to be used in disputes  such  as 
the one between Mr E and his landlord.  Rather its there to provide protection to people in 
times of civil unrest where businesses may be looted or damaged  during riots or by vandals. 
Therefore the reference to malicious person needs  to be taken in the context of the rest of 
the terms of policy  and with the overall  intention of the policy. So I dont think Mr Es 
interpretation of the term is reasonable and I also dont think  the term itself is particularly 
ambiguous.
Having read through the terms and conditions of Mr Es policy I agree with Lloyds that it 
doesnt provide  him with cover against  eviction and so I cant  say the business  behaved  
unfairly or unreasonably when it denied his claim.  So I wont  be asking it to do any more in 
relation to this matter
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Es complaint  on behalf of his limited 
company against  Society of Lloyds. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8475312