K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mrs S says Newcastle Building  Society  (Newcastle)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs S took the PPI with her mortgage.  The PPI she took was for unemployment only. She 
has sent us a leaflet that says the mortgage deal required a customer  to take one of the 
following insurances with us or pay a higher interest  rate. Three insurances were listed. PPI 
was one of those insurances.  Based  on the leaflet, if one of the other two insurances wasnt 
taken with Newcastle  a customer could still refuse Newcastles  PPI but at the expense of a 
higher interest  rate.
Also the application  forms Mrs S signed gave the option to say no to the PPI. So I think it 
was clear that the PPI was something separate from the mortgage   and something a 
customer would normally have a choice about  taking.
Mrs S has told us she cant remember  any details  of the sale.  But she believes she only took 
the PPI because Newcastle didnt make  it clear that getting the mortgage deal didnt depend 
on her taking the PPI. She says Newcastle completed her mortgage  application.  And she 
says her PPI application has a note by her signature  which looks like it was a condition  of 
the mortgage offer . Ive thought about  all this carefully.
The note on Mrs Ss PPI application looks like it might refer to her mortgage offer. So it might  
be support for what Mrs S says, but then again  it might not be. On balance,  I dont think I can 
really say what the note does mean.  So I dont think the note is enough to support a 
conclusion that Newcastle most likely  misled  Mrs S into taking the PPI or failed to make  it 
clear that she didnt have  to take the PPI. Also Newcastle may have filled in parts  of the 
mortgage application for Mrs S before she signed it. But I dont think  this means Newcastle 
most likely misled or misinformed Mrs S.
I dont doubt that Mrs S has told us what she honestly thinks. But bearing in mind  everything 
else Ive said above, what have isnt enough to make me think that Newcastle most likely  
misled Mrs S into taking the PPI or didnt  give her a clear choice about it like she thinks.
In saying this Ive taken into account  the fact that Mrs S didnt take unemployment cover with 
the further advance she took later on  or with other loans or credit that shes had. And Ive 
taken into account  what Mrs S has said about  her work redundancy pay being  more than the 
policy benefit. But I dont  think  any of this shows that she didnt choose to take out the cover  
with her main mortgage, or that Newcastle misled her or was at fault in some way for her 
decision at that time.  And nor does  the fact that she cancelled the cover some years  later.  
Ref: DRN88431432Newcastle didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. And its possible the information  Newcastle  gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as full or 
as clear as it shouldve been. But she couldve claimed on the cover if the circumstances 
arose, so I dont think more information about  the terms or conditions  wouldve put her off 
taking the cover.
I dont know whether the cost of the PPI was explained to Mrs S before she chose to take it. 
But the cost was set out in separately  in what was sent later.  Also it looks like the cost of the 
cover was affordable.  So with all this in mind, I dont think better information about the costs 
wouldve made a difference  to Mrs Ss decision. Overall I dont think better  information  about 
the PPI wouldve changed Mrs Ss decision  to take out the cover.
Im grateful  to Mrs S for all her points and for her patience and courtesy throughout our 
investigation of the complaint. Ive thought about all Mrs Ss points but, for the reasons Ive 
already given above, these points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Newcastle needs to give Mrs S some of the commission she 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Ss mortgage 
became a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Newcastle doesnt 
need to refund any of the commission Mrs S paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8843143