K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains as a director of K, a limited company. He believes the Society of Lloyds 
unfairly rejected  his commercial property insurance  claim. He also feels  they provided a poor 
service, including  initially seeking to void his policy.
background
Mr D claimed  following a water leak from a pipe on Ks premises, which was discovered in 
August 2018.  Lloyds  asked Mr D to arrange  for repairs to the leak and sent loss adjusters to 
assess the claim.
The loss adjusters initially recommended the policy be voided, meaning it would be treated 
as if it never  existed. That was based on a view that Mr D had made a misrepresentation 
when he took out the policy. But when Mr D complained about this, the decision was made  
to assess the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Upon doing this Lloyds decided the claim wasnt covered. They explained that while the 
policy covered accidental damage  to pipes, the available  evidence suggested the cause  in 
this case was wear and tear. Lloyds said wear and tear is excluded  from cover so no 
payment was to be made.
Mr D wasnt happy with this, he felt the damage was caused  in a sudden  and unexpected 
manor and therefore  should fall under accidental damage.  He didnt think it was wear  and 
tear.
Lloyds maintained their decision but offered Mr D £100 compensation, because they felt the 
service provided shouldve been  better than it was.
Mr D wasnt happy with this so brought his complaint  to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter and felt the claim ought  to be covered.  He noted 
that the policy covered damage  caused  by escape of water,  and as a leak is an escape of 
water, he thought it should be covered. The investigator felt trace  and access wouldnt be 
included as part of the claim, because that only comes in if the building is damaged  which 
it wasnt. Finally,  the investigator felt the £100 compensation for service  issues was fair.
Mr D didnt agree. He considered an accident  to have  happened,  which led to the sudden  
bursting of the pipe. Mr D didnt consider this to have been  gradual wear and tear. He also 
believed trace and access  should  be included in the claim  because the policy  doesnt  say its 
not covered  and because those costs  are an inevitable result of such a leak.
Lloyds didnt agree  either, maintaining their stance, so the case was passed  to me for a 
decision.
I first considered whether an insured peril arose. There are two which have been suggested, 
escape of water and accidental  damage.
Unlike the investigator, I didnt believe Lloyds was unfair in rejecting the claim. The cause  of 
the leak was described,  by Mr Ds contractors,  to be:
Ref: DRN80748832Our initial inspection has shown that the water  service to the property  is an existing lead 
service laid at the time that the property was first built. The main stop tap in the street  and 
the water  service to the property are shallow at only 350mm cover.
The underground  water  service has burst as a result  of the water service being  shallow and 
the movement  of the ground.
I acknowledged the damage  to the pipe will have been sudden  and unforeseen from Mr Ds 
perspective, but the evidence suggested it was caused gradually, over time, through ground 
movement. As opposed to it being  caused  by a sudden and identifiable incident. So, I said 
that even though it may have been  operating one moment and not the next, that didnt mean 
the exclusion for wear  and tear was unfairly applied.
There will often  be an element of the final straw in such issues,  but that doesnt mean the 
damage didnt  occur  over a period of time  essentially through the wear  and tear that the 
policy seeks to exclude. In view of that I didnt think Lloyds  was unfair in applying the wear  
and tear exclusion.
Turning to escape of water, I didnt think that was the cause of the leak either, it was the 
result of the leak. The policy covers damage  caused by an escape of water, which  would be 
anything damaged by the water being  where  it shouldnt be. In that respect,  I felt Mr D might  
be able to claim for any such damage  and I asked Lloyds to consider this point. But I didnt 
believe the replacement  of the pipe could fall under this part of the policy,  just property that 
became water damaged.
Regarding trace and access, I agreed with Mr D that that section of the policy doesnt 
necessarily limit cover, as it isnt an exclusion  but it provides clarification that where the 
building is damaged this cover  will be provided.  Those circumstances didnt apply, so I 
thought it was reasonable to say that such cover doesnt exist, particularly as the policy  
doesnt purport  to include such cover elsewhere.
Indeed, the policy says it provides cover  for damage by an insured peril. The damage 
caused by trace and access wasnt the direct  result of an insured peril.  It was caused as part 
of the repair  work, and whilst thats  related to the escape of water  it doesnt mean its 
covered.
I said I was sorry  to disappoint Mr D but, other than any water  damaged  property, I didnt 
believe Lloyds was unfair in declining Ks claim. I noted the concerns with the overall service 
provided and agreed that this wasnt as good  as it shouldve been.  But I thought the £100 
offered to K in that respect was suitable.
I asked Lloyds to consider  any claim for water  damaged property, if Mr D could provide 
evidence of such losses.
Mr D replied to say he still disagreed.  He said the report  I relied upon had been  provided by 
the loss adjusters, who would not only be incentivised by the insurer  to reject claims, but 
also had no specialist knowledge of underground pipes. Mr D said theres no evidence of 
wear and tear so the claim should succeed.  Lloyds did not reply.
Ref: DRN80748833my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im still of the same opinion  set out before.  Ive taken on board Mr Ds 
comments about the reports and I understand he believes  Im mistaken to say the comments  
came from the loss adjusters rather than his contractors.
But the comments I quoted were taken from the commercial property maintenance and 
repairs company. The quotes are not from the loss adjusters but from the company Mr D 
sought help from.  In that respect I consider it to be fair for Lloyds to have relied upon them 
in the assessment of the claim. And I agree that they suggest the damage would have been 
gradual rather than a one-off event, especially in the absence  of any counter report.
I also note that Mr D initially  said the leak was caused by car/pedestrian movement. That 
sounds to me like its happened  over time rather than there being a one-off incident  noting 
my earlier comments  about the final straw.
Ive not been made aware of any damage to Ks property, as a result of the escape  of water. 
And Lloyds  didnt reply  to my previous correspondence. But if Mr D does  believe there was 
such damage, then I require Lloyds to consider it in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Mr D said he didnt accept the £100  compensation that was offered previously  and that he 
tore up the cheque. I still consider that to be reasonable compensation for inconvenience  
associated with the initial voidance of the policy. So, if payment hasnt been released Lloyds 
should issue it again.
my final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Society  of Lloyds to:
-consider any claim presented for damage  caused by escape of water;
-pay K £100 compensation.
I make  no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf  of 
K, to accept or reject  my decision before 3 July 2020.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8074883