K822xcomplaint
Miss L, on behalf of Mrs Z, complains about poor service from J D Williams  & Company 
Limited (J D Williams) after she sent them a power of attorney for Mrs Zs account.
background 
In 2018, J D Williams wrote to Mrs Z to explain that there might have been  flaws with a 
purchase protection insurance policy it sold alongside a catalogue shopping account. 
It offered  to put Mrs Z in the position shed be in if she hadnt  bought the insurance. It offered 
to pay Mrs Z £310.73, and sent her a cheque.
But the name on the cheque was spelt wrong. Miss L has power of attorney for Mrs Z, and 
wanted to contact J D Williams about  this on Mrs Zs behalf. 
Miss L sent J D Williams the power of attorney documentation. But J D Williams refused to 
discuss details of Mrs Zs account with her, as she wasnt the account holder.
J D Williams accepted that its service could  have been better, and apologised. It reissued 
the cheque. But Mrs Zs name was spelt wrong  again. Miss L referred the complaint to us.
Since then,  J D Williams  issued another cheque, with a third,  incorrect, spelling. Then in 
February, J D Williams  issued a final cheque in the correct name. And it offered to pay Mrs Z 
£50 for the mistakes  it had made.
Our adjudicator agreed that J D Williams  has made some mistakes.  But she thought the 
compensation J D Williams had now offered was a fair way to resolve  Mrs Zs complaint. 
Miss L thinks  she should get more. So the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that J D Williamss service was poor on this occasion. It had received the power of 
attorney documentation, but this wasnt visible to the part of the business  that Miss L spoke 
to. This meant that it took a lot longer for Miss L to sort out the spelling of Mrs Zs name  on 
the cheques J D Williams  sent. And even after J D Williams responded to Mrs Zs complaint 
about this, it still had to send  the cheques a couple  more times before it got the spelling right.  
J D Williams has offered  £50 for the mistakes it made. Miss L thinks Mrs Z should get more.
I sympathise with Miss L, and totally understand why she feels  this way. I agree it must have 
been very frustrating  to continue receiving incorrectly spelt  cheques even after shed given 
J D Williams a chance to sort things  out. And Im mindful that it was only after Miss L 
referred the complaint to this service  that J D Williams managed to get things right.
But any award Id make wouldnt be to punish  the business but to reflect  the impact of 
J D Williamss actions.
Ref: DRN87899832J D Williams mistakes meant Mrs Z received a refund cheque a few months  later than she 
should have done. The cheque itself was for around  £310. Given  what happened and the 
amount of money  involved, I think the £50 offered fairly reflects  the inconvenience 
J D Williams caused.
In all the circumstances, I think that what J D Williams  has offered is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think J D Williams & Company  Limited has offered fair 
compensation for the trouble and upset  it caused. So I dont  make  a further award.
J D Williams & Company  Limited should now pay Mrs Z its latest offer if it hasnt  already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L, on behalf 
of Mrs Z, to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8789983