K820x#14complaint
Mr J doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which he was discharged  
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr J complained to RBS in 2015  that he had been mis-sold PPI.
RBS upheld Mr Js complaint about PPI he was sold with two loans. RBS wrote two letters to 
Mr J offering him compensation totalling £12,244.97. 
Mr J accepted RBS  offer in September 2016.  
However, Mr J had previously been  in a protected trust deed. In August 2009  Mr J was 
discharged from the protected trust deed. 
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his creditors,  which  is 
administered by a trustee. 
RBS used the compensation to reduce outstanding monies that it says Mr J still owed and 
hadnt fully repaid - despite being discharged from his protected trust deed. 
Mr J, unhappy he hadnt received the compensation, brought his complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  its 
fair for RBS to use Mr Js PPI compensation to reduce monies owed and left unpaid when 
his trust deed came  to an end.
RBS has confirmed that its received my provisional  decision. It says it has nothing to add.
Mr J has also confirmed that hes received my provisional decision. Mr J has said he 
disagrees with my view that it is fair for RBS to use the compensation in the way it has. Mr J 
points out that RBS agreed to the terms of the protected  trust deed and has admitted to    
mis-selling the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr J has said, and I know  he feels strongly  that he should  
receive the PPI compensation directly,  but Ive not seen anything that changes my opinion.
At the start of the protected  trust deed, the outstanding amount Mr J owed RBS was a little 
over £29,000. It is important to note that when a consumer grants a trust deed,  the creditor 
simply pools together  any debts the consumer owes it  so it effectively  becomes  one 
Ref: DRN88824462amount that is owed.  And a business will look to see if it owes  the consumer anything, and 
then adjusts the amount that is owed.  This would then be the final amount that it puts 
forward as what is owed  to it as a creditor in the trust deed.
While it is the case that RBS agreed  to the protected trust deed,  had Mr J  or his trustee  
realised hed been mis-sold the PPI while the trust deed was active, then RBS would clearly  
have been entitled to use the PPI compensation to reduce what  he owed it. Or, alternatively,  
it could have been paid to the trustee  for the benefit of all his creditors.  Importantly Mr J 
wouldnt have got this money directly. 
Mr J didnt complain about  the mis-sold PPI until after he had been  discharged  from his trust 
deed. But I dont  think this makes a difference to what  is fair. 
I say this because  the protected  trust deed  means  there remains  an amount that Mr J wont  
now ever have to repay to RBS. 
Because of this, I still think  that it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay the PPI compensation to 
Mr J, when Mr J doesnt  now have to pay back the many thousands of pounds  he borrowed 
that remain outstanding. 
Mr J has said that RBS offered him loans with PPI at a time when  he was in a poor financial 
situation. I agree RBS has admitted  the PPI was mis-sold, but even after the PPI 
compensation has been deducted from the amount outstanding  there will still remain  some 
£17,000 of the original  debt outstanding  that its unlikely RBS will ever receive. 
Ultimately If Mr J hadnt been sold the PPI to begin  with, I think  its likely  given the amounts 
involved  that hed still have entered the trust deed,  but owed less. And this is the position  
RBSs offer puts him in.   
So it follows  that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the 
outstanding amount that Mr J wont ever have to repay.
my final decision
I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr J PPI compensation to reduce 
the monies owed  and left unpaid when Mr J trust deed came to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88824463copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr J doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use his payment protection  
insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  a debt from which he was discharged  when his protected 
trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr J complained to RBS in 2015 that he had been mis-sold PPI.
RBS upheld Mr Js complaint about PPI he was sold with two loans. RBS wrote two letters  to Mr J 
offering him compensation totalling £12,244.97. 
Mr J accepted RBS  offer in September 2016.  
However, Mr J had previously been in a protected trust deed. In August 2009 Mr J was discharged 
from the protected trust deed. 
A protected trust deed  is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called  sequestration in Scotland).  It is 
a legally  binding  agreement between  a consumer  and his creditors, which  is administered by a 
trustee. 
RBS used the compensation  to reduce  outstanding monies that it says Mr J still owed and hadnt fully 
repaid - despite  being discharged from his protected trust deed. 
Mr J, unhappy he hadnt received the compensation brought his complaint to our service.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  R of the Financial  Conduct Authority  
(FCA) Handbook  to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr J says that he was discharged from his protected  trust deed which Mr J says should  have ended 
any recovery  action in the future. So Mr J says the compensation should be paid directly  to him. 
RBS say it has the right to offset the compensation against monies  Mr J hasnt fully repaid.
Ref: DRN88824464is it fair for RBS to use the PPI commission compensation to reduce an outstanding  amount  owed  
despite Mr J being discharged from his protected trust deed?
There have been some court  cases about  to who PPI compensation should  be paid when  a consumer 
has been discharged from a protected trust deed. 
In July 2018,  the Supreme  Court issued a judgment looking at what  should  happen  to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed  completed.  The court case was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018]  UKSC  54.
In that case,  the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustee  for the 
benefit of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
There is another case that is also relevant; this was Donnelly v Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  
SAC (Civ) 1.
In Donnelly, the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce  a debt 
from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this has been 
appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  Im not bound to follow it. But if I decide  to depart 
from it, I must  say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware of, and have  taken into account,  the relevant law. But I must apply  an over-
arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Js complaint.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation to reduce  the monies Mr J borrowed 
and didnt fully repay.
At the time Mr J granted a trust deed RBS says the outstanding amount Mr J owed  was £29,334.63. 
While Mr J was discharged from his protected trust deed  and in doing  so reduced that amount  
through a dividend RBS received, there was still an outstanding amount that Mr J wont now ever 
have to repay. RBS says the total dividend  it received from the trust deed was only £517.49,  meaning 
that Mr J still owed £28,817.14. RBS arent seeking to recover that amount  it is simply reducing the 
amount owed.
So the fact that Mr J entered into a protected trust deed  and was discharged from his debt when his 
trust deed came to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think  it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay back the PPI compensation to Mr J, when Mr J doesnt now 
have to pay back  the many thousands of pounds he borrowed. 
So it follows that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the outstanding 
amount that Mr J wont ever have to repay.
Mr J has pointed out that another business paid PPI compensation directly  to him. But that was a 
business decision made by the other business and I dont  think it follows that RBS should  follow suite.
Ref: DRN88824465my provisional  decision
I think  its fair for The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to use Mr Js PPI compensation  to reduce the 
monies owed and left unpaid when Mr Js trust deed  came  to an end.
I invite both parties to respond by the deadline set out at the start of this provisional decision.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8882446