K822xcomplaint
Mr M is unhappy  because  three  direct  debit payments have been  collected from his account  
which he says he did not authorise and Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) are refusing to refund 
them under the direct  debit guarantee.
background 
In April 2018, Mr M told Monzo that three  direct  debit payments, totalling over £100, had 
mistakenly been collected from his account by a telecommunications  provider  who I will refer 
to as X. Mr M says he has never  been  a customer of X and he did not set up this direct 
debit instruction. Mr M told Monzo  that he thought these payments were  for his mobile phone 
account which is provided by another telecommunications company. 
Mr M asked  for these payments to be refunded under the direct debit guarantee. However 
Monzo refused  because  Mr M was unable to provide evidence that he does  not hold an 
account with X. Mr M says he was unable to get this evidence.
The investigator upheld  the complaint following confirmation from X that Mr M was not a 
customer registered for services at his address. He also relied on evidence  which  shows  the 
direct debit set up with X was in another persons name although  it did use Mr Ms bank 
account details.  Overall, the investigator  was satisfied an error had been  made  by X and 
asked for Monzo  to refund the payments to Mr M. 
Monzo disagreed  for the following reasons:
-Mr M had not provided  evidence  to show he was not a customer of X;
-The transactions were  labelled on his bank statements and notifications  were sent to 
Mr Ms mobile so he wouldve been  aware of the payments; 
-The direct  debit  for Mr Ms mobile phone account was with another  bank so he would 
have known these  payments  were not for that purpose;
-The debits had been collected on three occasions between  January and April 2018 
and Mr M moved  money into the account to make sure there were sufficient funds for 
the payments  to be collected;
-Mr M cancelled a direct debit with another telecommunications  provider in 
            December 2018 and the direct debit with X was set up a few days later. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When setting up a direct debit, a customer is giving authority  to allow  a business to claim a 
variable amount on a variable day from their account. The customer  is equally giving 
authority to their bank  to allow these payments to be made. All direct  debits  are covered by 
Ref: DRN88261632the direct  debit guarantee. This means if errors are made by the bank or the business 
claiming the money, the customer will get a refund. However if it is later shown that no error 
has been made, the payments may be charged again.
Monzos terms and conditions confirm their direct debits are covered by the guarantee 
scheme and say the consumer is entitled to a full immediate refund if they or another 
business have  made  an error. However  before doing so I believe it is fair for Monzo to look 
into the circumstances and gather information  about  the alleged  error before agreeing to 
issue the refund.
Mr M has said he did not give his authority for the direct debit to be set up with X. To support 
their reasons  for not issuing the refund, I would expect Monzo to provide evidence to show  
Mr M did authorise the direct  debit to be set up. Monzo has provided  a copy of the direct 
debit instructions for X. Although it shows Mr Ms account details, it names another  person 
as the payer  and I have not seen  enough to suggest this person is associated with Mr M. 
Additionally, X has confirmed to our service  neither  Mr M or the other  person named  on the 
direct debit instruction  is registered for services at Mr Ms address. Based on this, I am 
satisfied Mr M is not a customer of X and on balance he would not have given his authority 
for the direct debit  to be set up.
Monzo has maintained  Mr M was aware  of the X direct debits. This is because Mr M moved 
money to his account to ensure the payments were made, he would have received payment 
notifications to his mobile  and the transactions were clearly labelled  on his statements. 
I accept the transactions were labelled as X on his bank statements and Mr M may have 
received notifications to his mobile phone. However  I think it is more likely than not that Mr M 
had mistakenly thought  these direct debit payments were for his mobile phone provider and 
this is why he made sure there were sufficient  funds to meet the payments. I say this 
because these payments  were made  over three  months and it appears that as soon as Mr M 
realised there was an error, he contacted  Monzo  to raise the dispute. I believe it was 
reasonable that he did not immediately realise there  was a problem  given all three  payments 
were made within a relatively  short period  of time.  
Monzo has also raised concerns about the cancellation of one of Mr Ms telecommunication 
direct debits and the set-up of the X direct  debit within a short  space of time. However 
Monzo has not provided evidence which shows how these two direct  debit instructions relate  
to each other so I am not persuaded there  is a link between the two. 
I believe an error has been made and Mr M did not give his authority for a direct  debit 
agreement to be set up with X. As these payments are covered by the direct  debit 
guarantee, I believe Monzo  should refund these payments to Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  outlined above,  I uphold Mr Ms complaint and Monzo Bank Ltd 
should pay redress as follows:
-refund  the full amount  of the three direct debit payments  from X;
-pay 8% simple interest from the date of each  direct debit payment until the date of 
settlement.
Ref: DRN88261633Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Simona Charles
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8826163