K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr L bought the policy  when he took out a loan in 2000. The loan included  an amount to pay 
for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint because:
I think Nationwide  made Mr L aware  that he had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it out. This is because the loan agreement described the PPI as 
optional credit insurance.
Nationwide  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr L, so it didnt have  to check if it was right 
for him. 
The cost of the policy was shown  on the loan agreement  including the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Mr L would  
have understood how much  the PPI would  cost if he kept the policy for its full term. 
Given how long the policy couldve paid out for, if Mr L made a successful claim he 
couldve got back quite  a bit more than what he paid for it. 
Mr L received a pro-rata refund of the PPI premium when he paid off the loan early. 
Its possible that Nationwide  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
Mr L doesnt  appear to have been  affected  by any of those things.
Ive taken into account Mr Ls comments, including  what  hes said about feeling he needed 
to sign everything to get the loan, he thought the PPI was compulsory and that he had sick 
pay and savings that he couldve relied  on. 
I think the loan agreement made clear the PPI was optional. And Mr L doesnt remember 
what happened during the sale in any detail. While this is understandable given how long 
ago it was, it does  make it difficult for me to place great weight on his recollection of what 
happened. 
Ref: DRN89111722While Mr L had some sick pay and savings,  the PPI wouldve made the loan repayments if 
he couldnt work. This wouldve  protected his savings and meant any sick pay couldve been 
used for other things.  Had he been too sick to work for longer than his sick pay lasted, the 
PPI wouldve  continued to make the loan repayments until the loan was paid off. So I think 
the PPI provided  protection over and above  his employment benefits. 
Because of this, these points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8911172