K821x#15complaint
Mrs L says Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave her loans that she couldnt 
afford.
background
Lending Stream gave  Mrs L three instalment loans between July 2012  and May 2013. 
Heres a table showing  the loan details:
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountCombined 
Maximum 
Repayment
1 21/07/2012 24/12/2012 6 £100 £55.00
2 25/01/2013 Not Closed 6 £300 £150.00
3 20/05/2013 Not Closed 6 £335 £263.50
Mrs L complained that Lending Stream acted irresponsibly when it provided loans to her that 
it shouldve realised she couldnt afford  to pay back.  
When Lending Stream looked at Mrs Ls complaint, it first of all said that it had carried out 
full affordability checks on all the loans and it didnt  uphold  Mrs Ls complaint.
Mrs L was unhappy  with this response and she brought her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel that shed seen  enough  to say it was unfair  for Lending Stream  to 
provide loans 1 - 2 to Mrs L. But she thought that loan 3 shouldnt have been lent to her  
she explained that as Mrs L had taken  out loan 3 when she was still paying for loan 2, the 
combined monthly repayments were a significant proportion  of her monthly income and it 
wasnt likely that she wouldve been able to sustainably keep meeting these repayments. So 
our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ls complaint about  loan 3 and gave some detailed instructions  
about the way she thought Lending  Stream should settle the complaint. 
Lending Stream said it accepted our adjudicators view and it agreed  to refund the interest 
and charges Mrs L paid towards loan 3, plus interest, and said it would amend Mrs Ls credit  
file as our adjudicator suggested. Lending Stream  also told us that it had sold loan 3 to a 
third party debt collection agency and it worked  out its calculation  based on figures  it said the 
third party debt owner had told it about repayments  Mrs L had made towards the outstanding  
loan.  
Mrs L told us shed  paid more to the third party debt collection agency than the figure 
Lending Stream had been told  and she sent us a statement showing details of payments 
shed made.  
We passed this information on to Lending  Stream  but the complaint remains  unresolved.  
So it comes  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN80759542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mrs L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Mrs L could sustainably  repay  her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ls complaint.
Ref: DRN80759543Mrs L has told us that she thinks the adjudicators decision  in respect of loans 1 and 2 is fair 
 and I agree. Based  on what shed said to Lending Stream about her finances these loans 
both looked comfortably affordable for Mrs L when  she took them out. So I agree with our 
adjudicator that there isnt enough information  to be able to say that Lending  Stream  
shouldnt have lent Mrs L loans 1 and 2. 
Lending Stream has reconsidered its position on loan 3 and accepted  our adjudicators  view 
and confirmed it is willing to take the steps suggested to put things right for Mrs L. So I dont 
think I need to say more  about this -  except  that it looks like Mrs L has made multiple  
repayments to the third party  debt collection agency  to whom Lending Stream sold loan 3.
Mrs L has provided a statement showing details and Id suggest  Lending  Stream takes this 
information into account to assist it in working out the correct  redress.  
Ive set out below the steps it should now take to put things right for Mrs L.
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do 
Lending Stream should buy back this debt (as it has offered to do) so it can carry out these 
directions  or otherwise  tell the third party that it needs to carry out these steps  to put things  
right.
remove any outstanding interest and charges from loan 3 and treat any repayments 
made by Mrs L for loan 3 as payments towards  the capital (this includes  payments 
made to the third party debt collection agency in respect of this loan)
when Lending  Stream works  out what it owes Mrs L, it can first apply this towards  
offsetting any outstanding capital balance  she owes on loan 3 (taking into account  
any refund already  paid or amount previously  written off) 
if there is a surplus, then it should return this to Mrs L  and pay her 8% simple a 
year interest on this surplus  from the date her account wouldve been settled in full (if 
the payments  she made had been applied towards  the capital balance in the first 
place) to the date of settlement
remove any negative information  recorded on Mrs Ls credit  file in relation to loan 3 
once it is paid (and ask the third party debt collection agency  to do the same).
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one. 
Ref: DRN80759544my final decision
For these reasons, Im upholding  Mrs Ls complaint  about loan 3. Gain  Credit LLC (trading 
as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out above  to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8075954