K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains the vehicle he acquired on a hire purchase  agreement  financed by BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  the vehicle 
and end the agreement.
background
Mr S tells us in July 2017 he acquired  the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as B. He says he 
noticed problems  in February  2018  and there were faults with the Navigation  system, 
Bluetooth system, SOS function  and TCU link. He says he notified a different BMW dealer, 
V, about the issues  in March but had to wait until the end of April to have the repairs 
completed as the TCU link had to be ordered  from Germany. Mr S says within 24 hours of 
the repair there was a warning system  message  -SOS call malfunction. He says he notified  
V but it wasnt able to offer an appointment at short notice.  And after a few weeks Mr S 
states the Bluetooth and Navigation systems failed. Mr S tells us that since then there have 
been further attempts at repairs in May,  July and September - but the faults keep 
reoccurring. 
After reporting  the problems  to BMW he says he was advised how to start the rejection 
process - so he dropped the vehicle back with B. But later BMW  informed him it wouldnt be 
going ahead with the rejection. Mr S says hes had no complete solutions offered and 
nobody has a clue whats wrong with the vehicle.
BMW told us it had no evidence the issues were present at the point of sale.  But it had 
offered Mr S one months rental payment of £469.63  in view of the inconvenience hed 
suffered.
The investigator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He felt the vehicle was not 
of satisfactory quality when supplied and Mr S should be allowed to reject it and have his 
deposit returned. 
BMW didnt agree and said there was no evidence the fault was present at the point of sale.  
It wanted an ombudsman  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see Mr S has had such a frustrating  time with this vehicle  and I can understand 
his wish to reject it after several repairs appear to have failed.
As the supplier of both the vehicle  and finance, under present legislation  BMW is responsible 
for the vehicle being of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr S. And whilst I 
dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into account. So if I thought the vehicle was not of 
satisfactory quality Id expect BMW to do something  about it. 
In this case relevant  legislation includes the Consumer Rights Act, 2015. And in brief, this 
says that if an item is not of satisfactory  quality when supplied  a consumer has the right - in 
certain circumstances  - to reject  the faulty  item or have it repaired or replaced.
Ref: DRN88618252And goods will be of satisfactory  quality  if they  meet a standard a reasonable person  would  
consider satisfactory.  And quality includes fitness for all purposes for which  the goods are 
usually supplied and durability.
BMW has said as the faults arose more than six months after the vehicle was supplied to Mr 
S the onus is on him to prove the faults were present  at the point  of supply. And it says 
theres no information to support this. I take a different  view and Ill explain  why.
Where evidence is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here - Im required to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. So where there is a dispute of fact - in this case 
whether the various faults were  present at the point  of supply - I decide what I think  is the 
most likely explanation.
The vehicle when  acquired by Mr S was about  17 months old and had a mileage of 8,878.  
Although bearing  in mind the nature of the faults I doubt if the mileage is of particular 
relevance.
The history  of repairs shows  that faults with the SOS  system and telematics occurred again 
after they had apparently  been repaired.  Im aware BMW  says the SOS system is a purely  a 
luxury of our vehicles - not a legal requirement. And that it says that due to the time Mr S 
has had the vehicle the continued problem with the telematics lies with the manufacturer.  But 
neither of those  points  overcomes the fact that this vehicle was supplied with those 
components. And presumably  this is to make the vehicle more attractive to potential  buyers. 
So a customer is entitled to expect that whatever  extras might come  with a vehicle they will 
also be of satisfactory quality.
The evidence shows that certain items have been  replaced  - not just repaired.  And yet the 
faults have reappeared. Its hardly  likely that new, individual  replacement  components  would 
fail independently. So its probably something more fundamental within this vehicles electric  
systems. And - given the requirement for the vehicle as a whole to be durable - I dont think  
a reasonable person would expect  all these issues  to be appearing in a vehicle of this age 
and specification within such  a short  period of time.
I think, on a balance of probabilities, the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. And it would not, in my opinion, be fair and reasonable to prevent Mr S from 
rejecting the vehicle at this stage. He should not be penalised for allowing more  
opportunities for a successful repair to be carried out than he was required to accept.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
Im ordering  BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited  to:
1.Arrange for the collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr S.
2.End the agreement with no further  payments to be due from the date of collection.
3.Refund the Advance Payment of £7,800  together with 8% interest from date of 
payment to date of collection.
4.Arrange for details  of the agreement to be removed from Mr Ss credit  file.
Ref: DRN886182535.Pay £250 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8861825