K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Allianz Insurance Plc failed to carry out her instructions  to change a 
direct debit payment  on one of her pet insurance  policies. My references to Allianz  include its 
agents.
background
In September  2018 Ms L contacted Allianz  to change the date she paid the direct debits for 
the premiums on her three pet insurance  policies. 
Allianz correctly changed  the direct debit collection date on two of the policies. It didnt 
change the date on the third policy. So when Allianz  twice asked for payment for that policy  
from Ms Ls bank the request was rejected.  The money wasnt  in Ms Ls account as shed 
arranged for the funds  to be in place for the revised date shed agreed with Allianz.
Allianz spoke to Ms L about the failed payment but didnt follow  up with Ms L and the policy  
was cancelled. 
After several months, Allianz accepted it had failed to change  the third policy  direct  debit  
collection date. It did the following:
reinstated the policy and paid all vet fees incurred  up to 30 July 2019
waived the premium charges for three  of the six months when no premiums were  
paid for the policy
spread the premiums  for the other  three unpaid months equally over the remaining 
monthly payments  of the policy term 
paid Ms L £150 compensation  for her distress  and inconvenience it had caused.
Ms L complains that Allianzs error resulted  in vet bills not being  paid, her having to move 
her dog to another vet for treatment, an increase in her insurance premiums and a lot of 
additional worry and financial hardship. She wants Allianz to pay all the outstanding vet fees, 
her premium  returned to the amount it was and more compensation to reflect her trouble and 
upset. Ms L told us she already has difficult circumstances  which Allianzs error made worse.
Our investigator thought Allianz had given Ms L poor service  but it had acted fairly to put 
matters right and paid reasonable compensation for Ms Ls trouble and upset.
Ms L disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She says shes  been punished 
financially and emotionally by Allianz.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz failed to carry out Ms Ls instructions to change the direct  debit collection date on her 
third policy and that mistake shouldnt  have happened.  But I have to decide  whether Allianz  
acted fairly  and reasonably in response to the mistake it made,  and I think  it did. I dont 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN81781602Allianz told us it had now paid the vets fees claimed.  When  we asked Ms L what  vet fees 
remained outstanding  she sent us a collection notice from a debt collector relating to 
outstanding money  owing to her vet. Allianz  contacted the vet practice to find out what  fees 
were outstanding, which was reasonable for it to do.
The vet practice told Allianz there were no outstanding fees owed by Allianz.  It told Allianz  
the outstanding amount is made up of mainly the policy excess (which the policy  doesnt  
cover) and some items not covered by the policy (for example worming).  On the evidence 
I have Allianz has paid for all the vets fees claimed for that are covered by the policy.  
Allianz didnt charge  Ms L more for the policy overall  when it reinstated  the policy.  The policy  
premiums were unpaid for six months before the policy  was reinstated. It waived the 
premium charge of £139.08 which represents  three months premiums for the policy Ms L 
would have usually  paid. So the overall  cost to Ms L for this policy across the year was less 
than it would have  been.
The monthly premiums increased for a time because Allianz spread the other  three unpaid 
months equally over the remaining monthly  payments of the policy  term. I think  Allianz  acted 
fairly in spreading the cost of the unpaid premiums  rather than asking  for the outstanding 
amount in one lump  sum.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Ms L has had personally and because  her dog has 
been so unwell. I understand Allianzs error  added to her stress and upset.  But by waiving 
the three months  premium together with the £150  compensation  Allianz has in effect already 
paid Ms L £289  compensation.  I think thats  a reasonable amount for her distress  and 
inconvenience Allianz caused.
Ms L says she had to change vet practice because  of problems  with Allianz not paying.  But 
Ive seen her letter  to her former vet practice that she sent us and it appears  there  are some 
wider issues. Also the vet practice confirmed to Allianz that Ms L owes  it money thats not 
covered by the policy. I dont think Allianz is responsible  if the vet practice  no longer wants 
Ms L to continue as a client.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Ms L to accept or reject  my decision before 19 April 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8178160