K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained about the delays that occurred when he asked Cofunds Limited to 
transfer funds held in a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) into his name  
following the death of his wife.
Mr W brings his complaint as executor of his wifes  estate.
background 
After Mr W had notified Cofunds about  his wifes  death, Cofunds sent a valuation  in early  
July 2018 together with information  about the options that were available  to Mr W. In mid 
August, Mr W says that he sent Cofunds the application form to transfer the ISA funds.  
Cofunds says that it received the covering  letter with this correspondence, but not the 
application form.
Cofunds has explained that at this point, the correspondence wasnt  assigned  to the correct 
work queue.  It therefore didnt tell Mr W that it hadnt received the application form. Mr W 
has explained the frustration he subsequently  experienced  when  contacting Cofunds in an 
attempt to progress  the transfer.  In mid September, Cofunds received the completed 
application form. However, due to human  error, the transfer was not completed until late 
November.
Mr W complained  about the service  he had received, and Cofunds sent him a cheque  for 
£300 to reflect the trouble and upset it had caused him (although Mr W has highlighted that 
this was sent with no explanation).  Dissatisfied both with the service  he had received, and 
the fact that the value of the funds had fallen  whilst  Cofunds arranged the transfer, Mr W 
brought a complaint to this service, asking that the compensation be increased.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Mr W had explained  that he was waiting for 
the transfer to take place so that he could then seek some financial advice about what  to do 
with his investments.  The investigators view was that it hadnt been shown that the delays 
had caused Mr W any specific financial loss, as it wasnt clear what  Mr W might have done 
with the funds had they been transferred at an earlier  date. She considered the offer of £300 
compensation was fair, bearing in mind the distress and inconvenience  the delays had 
caused Mr W.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators findings.  He has said that the £300  compensation 
amount doesnt  adequately reflect the difficulties  Cofunds delays have caused him. He has 
explained he could  only wait whilst  hoping  Cofunds would carry out what was a relatively 
straightforward process. Mr W accepts that the value of stocks and shares ISAs do fluctuate 
with the markets, but he considers his hands  were  tied until Cofunds  completed the 
transfer. Mr W has commented that the process of taking advice about these investments 
could have started a lot earlier,  and he would have been saved much stress,  if the transfer 
had been processed in an appropriate timescale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN86907152It is clear that Cofunds delayed the transfer of these funds due to poor administration.  What I 
must consider is what represents fair compensation to reflect  this.
Mr W has explained that he wanted to transfer these funds so that he could  then seek  advice 
about the investments held. I appreciate that the delays he experienced resulted in this 
occurring some months after Mr W wanted to start this process. However,  whilst the value of 
the funds fell as they awaited  transfer, on balance Im not persuaded that its been  shown  
that the delays  caused  Mr W a financial  loss. I say this because  I dont consider its been 
shown that a particular strategy  with the funds would have been  followed if transferred at an 
earlier date that would  have resulted in them being worth  more than was actually the case  
when they were transferred.
I have carefully considered Mr Ws comments about the difficulties he was caused by 
Cofunds poor service.  I have borne  in mind that Mr W was caused  unnecessary  distress  by 
Cofunds at a time when he was already having  to deal with matters relating to his late wifes 
estate.  When making awards relating to unnecessary upset caused by a business, I am 
mindful of the levels of compensation  awarded in cases with similar circumstances.
Having considered the events that occurred in this case, my view is that £300 does 
represent fair compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience  which  Cofunds caused  
Mr W. I appreciate  Mr W is likely to be disappointed with my findings. However, my 
conclusion is that the sum already offered by Cofunds is a reasonable one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8690715