K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA)  hasnt acted fairly or 
reasonably when dealing with their claim under a legal expenses insurance  policy.  They 
want matters put right.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a legal expenses insurance policy with IPA. They were sued by a lender 
seeking possession  of their property, but Mr and Mrs B said that theyd  settled the debt and 
had evidence to prove this. They  made a claim to IPA in June 2018,  and said that the claim 
hadnt been handled fairly or reasonably  and been  subject to unnecessary  delay. 
A hearing  was due to take place  in mid July 2018, and no solicitors  had been  appointed to 
deal with the case. Mr B said that IPA told him to appoint  his own solicitor and it would pay, 
but he couldnt find one. IPA then appointed  a panel solicitor, but Mr B said that he was 
asked to pay in case the case didnt have  reasonable  prospects of success. The hearing  
was adjourned.  The panel solicitors and a barrister  confirmed that the defence of the 
possession claim didnt  have reasonable prospects of success.
Mr and Mrs B complained to IPA. It said the claim wasnt  accepted as it didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. A barrister  had confirmed this, as had the solicitors on 
several occasions. IPA also said that the claim wasnt  covered by the terms and conditions  
of the policy  (as the definition of legal  proceedings didnt include defending a possession 
claim) and the event giving rise to the claim had happened in September  2007 when 
Mr and Mrs B were  first sent a demand for repayment of the debt in a default notice; this was 
before the policy was in force from June 2013 onwards. IPA noted that Mr and Mrs B hadnt 
told it about the claim promptly, but accepted  that there was no prejudice suffered by it as a 
result; it did though explain why it needed time to assess the claim, despite the court  
timetable.
Mr and Mrs B complained to us. It was explained to them that this service couldnt look at 
anything that happened before 25 July 2018  as theyd brought  the complaint too late to this 
service. This service  could  look at what had happened between  26 July 2018 and 20 
January 2020.
The investigators view was that IPA wasnt at fault. She said that arguably the claim was 
within the period  of insurance as Mr and Mrs B only received notice of the court proceedings 
after the insurance policy started  and she didnt think  that the default notice was enough.  
The investigator also thought that the claim was within the definition of legal proceedings 
under the policy  as it covered specific performance , and a possession  order was an order 
to do something.  
But the investigator said that IPA had been  fair and reasonable to refuse  cover  as it was able 
to rely on a barristers opinion that Mr and Mrs Bs defence didnt have a reasonable 
prospect of success,  though the amount due might be able to be reduced.  IPA was an 
insurer and the barrister was suitably qualified  to give an opinion (and had been chosen by 
Mr and Mrs B, who had supplied evidence and information to him). She noted that IPA had 
paid the cost of the barristers opinion, despite the negative views of the solicitors of the 
case.
Ref: DRN85536082Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They said that the barrister hadnt been given everything he 
needed by the solicitor.  The investigator said that was a matter between  Mr and Mrs B and 
the solicitor; IPA wasnt responsible for the actions of the solicitor.  Mr and Mrs B said that 
their further  queries should be put to the barrister;  IPA had refused as they werent  relevant 
to the issue about the defence of the possession claim. Mr and Mrs B asked for an 
ombudsmans opinion  and instructed  the barrister themselves. The investigator pointed out 
that even if the barrister  changed his opinion, it was still reasonable for IPA to have  relied on 
the earlier opinion  he gave. 
IPA also disagreed with the investigators view,  and said that the first event leading up to the 
possession claim was the formal demand for repayment made  in September  2007, before 
the insurance policy was in place. It also said that the barrister had considered  everything  
when giving his opinion.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
When I refer to IPA, Im also referring  to its agents.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I note that this service  doesnt have jurisdiction to look into the actions of IPA before 25 July 
2018, and this hasnt been  challenged.  And having considered  all the evidence  available  to 
me, I think  IPA has acted promptly and reasonably since that date and sent everything from 
Mr and Mrs B to the panel solicitors. The reason why cover is still in dispute is because 
Mr and Mrs B dont  accept the legal  opinions given and supplied information  over a lengthy  
period of time. That isnt IPAs fault.  I also note that IPA paid for a barristers opinion when it 
wasnt required to do so, and I cant say that its unfair or unreasonable for IPA to decline to 
pay more in the circumstances.
Timing of the insured  incident
I dont agree with the investigator  about  this point. The loan fell into arrears several years  
before the policy was taken out and a formal demand for repayment  was made in 2007. The 
policy says that the date of an insured incident  is the incident happened  or when first of a 
series of incidents which may lead to a claim happened. It also says that this applies to 
incidents connected by the same cause of action, time or event.
In Mr and Mrs Bs case, the first incident relating  to the possession  claim brought  against  
them is likely to be when they fell into arrears and a formal demand for payment  was made 
(particularly as the date of the demand is relevant to limitation) in 2007.  The policy started  in 
2013 and excludes incidents  arising  before it started. So I think its fair and reasonable for 
IPA to say the claim is excluded for this reason.
Ref: DRN85536083Is the claim covered  by the policy?
I dont agree with the investigator  about  this point either. Specific  performance is a legal 
term that has a specific  legal meaning   in simple terms, it refers  to a type of court  
application when  something has to be done  as damages wouldnt ordinarily be an adequate 
remedy, or to complete  a contract. Its an equitable  remedy. This term doesnt  apply to 
possession claims in my view.
And looking at the terms and conditions of the policy, Im not persuaded that the defence  of 
a possession claim is covered. Given the reason for the loan in the first place, which  Mr B 
told a solicitor was partly  for business  reasons, the case  isnt a consumer claim.  The 
definition of property  claims  within the policy refers to nuisance  or trespass  claims and 
similar matters,  not claims  brought by a lender. I think its fair and reasonable for IPA to say 
that the claim is excluded  on this basis. That said, as Ive concluded that the claim pre-dates  
the policy, this point doesnt make  a difference.
Reasonable prospects of success
I do agree  with the investigator about this issue, and its critical  the policy only covers 
cases with a reasonable prospect of success.  The solicitors repeatedly advised that there 
was no reasonable prospect of success and this was supported by a barristers opinion.  Both 
the solicitors and barrister  were  suitably qualified and its fair and reasonable for IPA to rely 
on their view. And its correct that IPA isnt responsible for the actions of the lawyers  
involved; it carried out its role in instructing  them and raising  Mr and Mrs Bs concerns.
Mr and Mrs B say that the opinions are wrong.  Looking at their contents, theres nothing 
obvious to a layman that theyre incorrect and Mr and Mrs B had every opportunity to provide 
evidence and information. They havent  provided  their own legal opinion  supporting  their 
position. And the further points Mr and Mrs B make have been addressed by the barrister in 
his opinion  the issue about  the trustee and registration are irrelevant given the 
fundamental point  that money  was borrowed and secured on the property and has yet to be 
repaid. The only point for debate is the amount of interest charged,  and the barrister 
addressed this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  IPA accepted my view. Mr and Mrs B said that their 
barrister was still in the process of providing another opinion and this service  shouldnt take 
any action in the meantime. The investigator explained that as I had thought IPA had acted 
fairly in declining the claim  for reasons other than the reasonable prospects of success,  any 
new barristers  opinion  wouldnt  resolve this complaint. Mr and Mrs B said that I should do 
what I thought  was right, but I shouldnt  make a final decision.
Ref: DRN85536084This service has a duty to deal with complaints in a timely way and we dont pause  
complaints unless its fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances. I note that its 
previously been  explained to Mr and Mrs B that even if the barrister changes  his position and 
produces a new opinion, it was fair and reasonable for IPA to conclude that the prospects of 
success werent good enough  at the time that it did based on the opinions  it had in its 
possession at that point in time. In other words, even if the barrister now said the defence in 
its entirety had reasonable prospects of success,  it wouldnt mean  IPA had acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably in relying previously on legal opinions which  said differently.
And its fair to point  out that Mr and Mrs B havent responded to my provisional  decision 
about my view that the event predated the inception of the insurance  policy  and wasnt  
covered by the terms and conditions of the policy, even if there had been reasonable 
prospects of success.
Having considered the evidence available to me and what the parties  have said in response,  
I think my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and will stand 
as my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8553608