K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained that Ford Retail Limited (FRL) mis-sold a guaranteed  asset  protection 
(GAP) policy.
Reference to FRL includes its agents.
background
Mrs M bought a car on finance at the same time FRL sold her a GAP  policy.  Some months  
later Mrs M complained. She said she didn't agree  to buy the GAP policy and only learned 
she'd bought it when she received policy information about it in the post from the insurers  
agent. She later cancelled  the policy with the insurer, who provided a proportionate refund. 
But Mrs M thought she should  get her full premium  back  together with compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience. She brought her complaint about that to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2019.  For ease  I've copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it. 
 
In her correspondence Mrs M has occasionally referred to the GAP  policy  as a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. But the two things  are quite different. It might help if I 
explain in general  terms that PPI policies generally cover a consumers  repayments  on a 
finance agreement  in the event that the consumer falls ill, becomes unemployed, or for other 
unforeseen reasons as described  in the policy is unable to meet their finance repayments. 
GAP policies aren't  dependent  on the circumstances of the policyholder but rather their car. 
There are different types of GAP policy but the one FRL sold to Mrs M was designed to pay 
her the higher of the amount outstanding on her finance or the invoice price  for her car if her 
car was deemed a total loss. So Mrs M would have been able to claim on the GAP policy if 
her car had been  stolen or badly damaged in an accident. 
GAP policies are often of benefit to people buying cars on finance as those cars will lose 
value over time. And if theyre deemed a total loss, the motor  insurer will usually only pay the 
cars market  price at the time of the accident.  So because the cars lost value since it was 
sold the motor  insurers  total loss settlement will often be considerably  less than the amount 
the consumer  bought  their car for. In those  circumstances the consumer might still be faced  
with significant  amounts  to repay  on their finance; or the settlement might not be enough to 
allow the consumer  to afford a replacement car. So the GAP  policy  is designed to bridge  that 
financial shortfall to allow  the policyholder to either pay off the remaining finance or make  up 
the difference between the motor  insurer's  settlement  and the purchase price  of the car. And 
I've seen no reason to think such a policy wouldn't have been suitable for Mrs M. But that 
doesn't mean that FRL sold the GAP  policy fairly.   
Mrs M says she doesn't remember  any discussion about the benefits or the costs of the GAP  
policy. She recalls FRL asking her what she calls leading questions  and she said she 
checked her order form to ensure that it didn't include  any extras  she didn't want. And at that 
time the order form didn't t refer to the GAP policy. But Mrs M said that when she came  to 
collect her car, FRL asked her to sign some  documents presented to her on an electronic 
tablet. She said she signed the documents without checking them and FRL handed her the 
Ref: DRN88645272keys. She said she didn't  realise at that time that FRL had added the GAP policy to the 
invoice and other documents until she received a letter from the GAP provider some weeks  
later.
In contrast  FRL said it didn't include the GAP details on the initial order form as it only 
completed Mrs Ms demands and needs statement - which  is a summary of her insurance 
needs - on the day she picked up her car. It pointed out that Mrs M had signed  the demands  
and needs statement to say that the policy details had been explained to her, and that - 
amongst other things  - shed received the policy documents including its summary and a 
validation certificate  setting out its costs. So it says that Mrs M had signed to say she was 
aware of the GAP  policy and that she wanted it.
Clearly I wasn't there when the GAP  policy  was sold so I don't know exactly  what  was and 
wasn't discussed. And there is clear  evidence that Mrs M signed  to say that shed received 
an explanation  of the policy.  But in the specific circumstances  of this complaint Im not 
convinced that FRL did go through the sale appropriately.
Sales of GAP policies  are regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA). And the FCA 
lays down specific rules  that set out what businesses like FRL must do when selling GAP 
policies. One of those rules  is that FRL must  provide certain information in writing to Mrs M 
before it sells the policy. FRL says its done  that on the day Mrs M collected her car. And 
Mrs Ms signed a demands  and needs  statement to say that she received  that information.  
But another rule is that FRL can't complete  the sale of a GAP  policy  until 2 clear days have 
passed between  it giving  Mrs M the documents and it concluding the sale.  But in this case 
the evidence indicates that FRL gave  Mrs M the policy information and concluded the sale 
on the same  day. And that would be in breach of the rules. So I don't think  its sold the policy 
fairly.
Given Mrs Ms strong reaction  that she didn't want or need the policy,  I don't think shed 
have agreed to waive that rule. And I think  that if FRL had allowed two clear  days to elapse 
before it completed  the sale then Mrs M wouldn't have bought the GAP policy. So, in order to 
put things right I think FRL should put Mrs M back into the position she would have  been  in 
had she not paid for the GAP policy. 
The policy insurer has already provided  Mrs M with a proportionate refund for most of the 
policy premium.  So, on receipt  of appropriate evidence of that refund, I think  FRL should 
reimburse Mrs M the difference between the amount the insurer refunded  her and the full 
policy price.  It should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date of 
sale to the date it makes  payment.
Also, as the policys  mis-sale and the complaint that followed it has clearly  been a source of 
distress and inconvenience to Mrs M, to address  that I think  FRL should pay her £150  
compensation.
developments
FRL didn't accept  my provisional decision.  It said that the insurers agent had confirmed that 
it wrote  to Mrs M about  the policy on 9 October 2018, which was only days, rather  than 
weeks after the purchase. And that Mrs M had contacted the agent  on 15 January 2019 
about cancelling the policy. 
Ref: DRN88645273FRL said that Mrs M had initially  only complained about the sale of a PPI policy. And it was 
not until we made her aware that we stopped selling PPI in 2010 that she complained 
about the sale of the GAP policy.
FRL added that it wasn't aware  that Mrs M thought the GAP  policy  was mis-sold until three 
months after the policys cancellation.  So it questioned why she had only contacted it with 
regard to a GAP mis-sale  after it had advised her that the only insurance policy it sold was 
GAP and not PPI. It said she must have been  aware  of the policy sooner as she contacted 
the insurer's agent about cancelling it.
FRL said it could confirm that it completed the demands and needs statement, when it first 
discussed the GAP  policy,  on 29 September 2018.  It provided a copy  of that document,  
which it had retrieved from its system. It said that as the GAP wasn't signed for until 
5 October 2018 this shows Mrs S had more than two clear days  to consider whether she 
wanted the policy or not.
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision.  But she added that there  were  other  anomalies  
between the cars order form and sales  invoice.  She said I should  take those differences into 
account when  deciding how FRL:  should  put things  right. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
I accept that the insurer's agent  sent Mrs Ms details of the GAP  policy  only days after FRL 
had sold it and not weeks as I mistakenly  said. But I don't think  that makes any difference  to 
my findings.
FRL said that Mrs M only complained about  the GAP policy after it told her that it had 
stopped selling PPI in 2010 and after telling her the only product  it had sold was a GAP 
policy. Im not sure when  FRL believes it told Mrs M that it stopped telling PPI in 2010  or that 
shed only bought a GAP  policy.  I haven't  seen any evidence  beyond FRLs comments to 
support that. In fact FRL told us it was unaware of Mrs Ms complaint until we contacted it 
about the GAP  mis-sale in May 2019.  So I don't think  she only complained about the GAP 
policy after FRL told her that she didn't have a PPI policy.  
As Ive previously said Mrs M had previously believed  that her GAP policy  was a PPI policy. 
But whatever her understanding it's clear form the evidence I've seen that Mrs M was only 
ever complaining about the sale of the GAP policy as that's the only policy that was sold with 
her car. And when she originally complained to us in February 2019 that was to complain 
about the sale of a GAP policy. 
Also Mrs Ms shown  us evidence that she was unhappy about the sale of the GAP  policy  
dating back to January  2019. And it's clear  that shed contacted customer service  personnel  
from at least one business sharing FRLs  brand name about the sale of the policy  before she 
complained to us. So the evidence is that she complained about the GAP policy shortly after 
she became aware  of it. Indeed shes shown  us evidence that she complained  directly  to 
FRL in March 2019 but it didn't reply. So Im satisfied  that Mrs Ms intention was always to 
complain about  the GAP  policy,  although  she might have occasionally referred  to it using the 
wrong term. So I think she began  that complaint process after learning about the product, 
even though it appears that she misdirected that complaint to the wrong business initially.
Ref: DRN88645274FRLs told us that it first completed the demands and needs statement, recommending the 
GAP policy, on 29 September 2018,  more than two clear  days before the sale. And its 
produced evidence to support that. Its worth noting that before  coming  to my provisional  
decision we specifically asked FRL if it had recommended the GAP policy earlier  than 
5 October 2018. It answered:
 There  is no evidence  to indicate that Gap or other insurances were  recommended  
at an earlier  date. 
Similarly, I note that in an email to Mrs M in July 2019 it said:  
[FRL] have double checked the paperwork on your case and can confirm that the order  form 
was issued 29 September 2018  when you agreed to purchase  the vehicle. The demands 
and needs form was completed on 5 October  when  the vehicle was collected . 
So I find it a little puzzling that FRL was unaware  that it had recommended  the product 
earlier than 5 October 2018  until after it received my provisional decision criticising it for not 
doing so. 
But even if FRL did complete  the demands and needs statement on its system on 
29 September 2018, that doesn't persuade me that it sold the policy fairly. I note that Mrs M 
didn't sign the demands and needs  statement  FRL said it completed  on that date. Shes 
been clear and consistent that she didn't ever want the policy. And she took action, as I've 
described above, to complain and have it cancelled after learning  about it. Its also evident  
that she didn't  know what the policy was for or what its benefits were, which would explain 
why she thought it was a PPI policy. So Im not convinced  that FRL did enough to bring the 
policys benefits to her attention two clear days before  it sold it, or in fact on the day that it 
sold it. So Im satisfied  the policy was mis-sold.
Mrs M has pointed  to some other differences in figures between  her cars order  form and the 
sale invoice. But those  figures relate  to things like the part-exchange  figure.  And they don't 
relate to the GAP  policy. And as far as Im aware those aren't points  shes  previously raised 
with FRL. So, as Im only looking at the complaint about the GAP sale and I have 
recommended FRL reimburses her, I don't intend  to comment on those points here.
Ref: DRN88645275my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Ford Retail Limited to:
Reimburse Mrs M the difference between the amount the insurer refunded her for the 
GAP policy and its full premium. It should  add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 
8% a year from the date of sale to the date it makes payment1. 
Pay Mrs M £150 to address her distress and inconvenience.
FRL should pay the compensation  within 28 days of us telling it that Mrs M has accepted  my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If FRL considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing  this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8864527