K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the delays caused in fixing their bathroom  when they made an 
escape of water claim on their home insurance  policy.
background
In December 2016 there was an escape  of water in Mr and Mrs Gs bathroom, so they made 
a claim on their policy for the damage it caused.
Ageas appointed M to undertake the repairs  needed, who subcontracted this to P. At the end 
of March 2017, Mr and Mrs G raised concerns over the quality of the works undertaken. M 
agreed to appoint a second subcontractor,  who Ill call C, who came  to view the property the 
same day. Because the quotation for works  was relatively  high a loss adjuster was also 
appointed.
The loss adjuster approved the works C had outlined. However in June 2017 Mr and Mrs G 
raised further concerns about the standard of work and slow progress.  M didnt agree, and 
so the loss adjuster was asked to review things again. While the loss adjuster viewed the 
works in mid-October  he didnt provide  his report till December  2017. In it, he agreed with 
the concerns Mr and Mrs G had raised.   
Mr and Mrs G provided a quotation to complete the works in January 2018  and this was paid 
shortly afterwards. The claim  has therefore  now been settled. However Mr and Mrs G 
complained about:
the amount  of time it took to settle the claim;
the standard of work that was completed;
the distress and inconvenience  caused;  and,
that their insurance premiums had increased disproportionally because Ageas had 
logged this as two claims and these totalled  a higher value because of the extra 
works needed.
Ageas reviewed everything and agreed  there had been delays and the service provided was 
below what it ought to have been. It offered £500  to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt feel this was enough to recognise what  theyd been through  and so 
brought their complaint  to our service. They explained that during this time their daughter 
was getting married and so they had guests  staying in their home. And the state of the 
bathroom and repairs caused inconvenience  and embarrassment.
An investigator at our service looked at their complaint and said he thought  £750  would be 
more appropriate.  Both Ageas and Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, and so this complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill be upholding it. 
Ref: DRN81117492Ageas has accepted the service provided  was below what it ought  to have been.  So the 
question I need  to consider is what effect  this had on Mr and Mrs G. And whether Ageas 
offer of £500 recognises this. 
I appreciate a claim of this nature would bring  a certain amount of upheaval and distress. But 
an insurer needs to deal with a claim fairly and promptly. So I wouldnt expect this upheaval  
to be added to, by unnecessary delays or the service provided not being what  it should.  
Mr and Mrs G raised a number to individual issues; while Ive considered all of these Ive 
addressed only some  of the main ones here. 
The claim started in December 2016, and wasnt completed until early 2018. So, it took over 
a year to resolve. When the works were originally scoped out a timeframe wasnt  estimated, 
so we cant say exactly  by how much the works  were delayed. But having considered  the 
claim notes  and the works that were  planned  its clear things ought to have happened  much 
sooner than they did. There  were delays caused by both P and C because works werent 
completed fully so rework  was needed  such as with the shower screen. There  were  also 
periods where  no work was completed. Other delays include a period of time where no 
progress was made because the parties were  waiting for the loss adjusters report. The 
contractors and the loss adjuster are agents  of the insurer. This means Ageas is responsible 
for the actions of them.
Ageas has highlighted that it acted on issues Mr and Mrs G raised. And I can see this.  
However I can also see that the issues Mr and Mr G raised regarding works  were with basis 
and confirmed.  And so Ageas needs to take responsibility for its agents and their actions, 
and any distress these actions caused. 
The delay in progressing the claim meant Mr and Mrs G were without a shower for a number 
of months and their bathroom was left in a state of mid-repair  for periods. They  did have a 
bath to use, and have  mentioned they went to nearby familys houses to shower.  But this 
clearly caused inconvenience, and I can understand how this would have been distressing 
for Mr and Mrs G. Both P and Cs work appears  to have been below what was expected  and 
this caused delays in settling the claim. In the end Mr and Mrs G needed to arrange for their 
own builder, a third contractor, to do the repairs, which shouldnt have been needed.
One incident that caused Mr and Mrs G particular worry was when they were told the shower  
was now safe.  However the screen fell off its fixings one day. Fortunately, no one was in the 
bathroom at the time and so no one was hurt. And I need to consider  what happened,  rather  
than what could have  happened.  However  I can understand that this would have been 
distressing for Mr and Mrs G, especially given the problems that had already experienced 
with the quality of the work  undertaken.
Mr and Mrs G talked about  the emotional impact of this on them.  They had lots going on for 
their daughters wedding.  I can understand an unrepaired bathroom would have created 
added distress and inconvenience when there were visitors to the home that also needed to 
use the facilities. 
Mr and Mrs G say they dont know what payment would recognise the distress and 
inconvenience theyve  had. Awards for distress  and inconvenience are to recognise the 
emotional impact a business poor service has had, as well as the inconvenience poor 
handling causes  a policyholder. We dont make awards for each error made by the business. 
Instead, we look at everything  that has happened, the overall impact its had and decide 
Ref: DRN81117493what fair compensation is, given the circumstances.  There  were clear delays in completing 
the work  however I can also see Ageas tried to put things right when Mr and Mrs G 
highlighted problems  to them so I think £750 more fairly  recognises  the severity  of the 
situation and the delays  caused by Ageas.
Mr and Mrs G said their home insurance premiums have increased as a result of two claims 
being recorded. They and Ageas have now confirmed only one claim has been  recorded. 
And Ive not seen  any evidence that suggests  the claim  amount has been inflated. So I make 
no award for this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay       
Mr and Mrs G a further £250, in addition to the £500  offered already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019..
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8111749