K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way that their home insurance claim for accidental 
damage to their flooring was dealt with by Legal  & General Insurance  Limited (L&G). The 
claim was dealt with by the underwriting company but for convenience Ill refer to L&G 
throughout.
background
In March 2018, whist their son was vacuuming it, scratch  damage  was caused to the wood 
flooring in the downstairs  rooms of Mr and Mrs Ss house. L&G appointed a contractor to 
inspect the floor. That contractor estimated that it would be cheaper to renew the flooring 
rather than repair it. This was based  on a replacement engineered oak flooring. Mr S pointed 
out that the flooring  was teak. L&Gs contractor advised that a replacement  teak floor wasnt  
available. The closest was a high end oak flooring. The claim was reassessed and L&G 
decided it would be cheaper to restore the floor. It also needed  to carry out an asbestos test 
on the adhesive  used under the floor. 
Mr and Mrs S decided  they would instruct their own contractors and L&G paid them a cash 
settlement, to include 2 days  stay in a hotel. It also agreed that the claim  had been  held up 
unnecessarily and paid compensation of £100. Mr and Mrs S didnt think  this was sufficient 
and particularly queried the amounts paid for alternative accommodation and why L&G 
wouldnt pay the VAT for the repairs until they provided the invoice.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that L&G had acted reasonably and that 
the award was sufficient.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delay
The claim was reported to L&G in mid-March 2018. It took until the end of May 2018  to reach 
an agreed settlement.  The delay  was caused by the first contractor not identifying  that the 
flooring was teak and would have to be of a high end specification  and wrongly  identifying  
that it would  be cheaper  to replace  rather than restore  the flooring.  Delay  was then caused  in 
the claim by their having to be subsequent visits to the property. Also the first contractor  
didnt identify that there had to be an asbestos  test done. This had to be done  later,  although 
would still have had to be done at some stage. 
I appreciate that the delays and further  inspections caused Mr and Mrs S some 
inconvenience, but I dont think it was a serious inconvenience for them to live with the 
damaged flooring. And inevitably an insurance claim in itself will cause inconvenience. I think  
the payment made of £100 is reasonable.
alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs S dont  believe  that L&G paid them enough for their hotel stay,  and point out that 
the policy allows for accommodation of a similar size and standard  to their home.  
Ref: DRN85327792L&G identified that it would take two days to carry out the repairs so paid for Mr and Ms S to 
stay in a hotel. Strictly speaking the policy does say it will pay for alternative  accommodation  
of a similar size and standard to their home. It doesnt mention payment for a hotel,  but I 
dont think it would have  been reasonable to expect  there to be available a similar house for 
just two days. I think paying for a hotel  stay was the most practical solution.
In terms of payments  L&G paid Mr and Mrs S an allowance  of £10 per person per day. The 
purpose of that is to reflect  the fact that it would cost more  to provide food while out of the 
house. It takes into account  that they would still have had to pay for food if still living  in their 
home. It is a standard payment and I dont think it was unreasonable.
VAT
Mr and Mrs S have  queried why they had to provide an invoice for the repairs before L&G 
would pay VAT, when it paid VAT for the hotel bill. VAT is only payable  once  an invoice is 
provided (and not payable at all if the contractor  isnt VAT registered). I understand L&G paid 
all the hotel bill but this was a VAT inclusive invoice and had to be paid in advance.  I dont 
think L&Gs  approach was unreasonable. 
overall
Overall I think  L&G acted  reasonably and paid a reasonable amount of compensation for the 
delays caused.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8532779