K821x#15Complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Vanquis Bank  Limited wont agree to write off an outstanding debt 
she owes.
Background
Miss H has an outstanding debt to Vanquis  which she says she can no longer afford to pay. 
At the time she referred her complaint to us, it was a little under £1,500.  Her health  declined 
significantly many  years ago. The parties are aware of the details of her health difficulties, so 
I wont set them out in full here. They were sufficiently serious that she was forced  to stop 
working and she suffered  significant financial hardship as a result.
In 2014, she applied for early access to her occupational  pension  on the grounds that she 
wouldnt be able to return to her job.  A report was prepared in response  to her request that, 
amongst other things,  said:
It appears likely that Miss Hs condition has given rise to a substantial  and long-term  
adverse effect  on normal day to day activities   
[]
According to the psychiatrist  she is not likely to be able to return  to work  in the 
future.
[]
Miss H has recognised medical  conditions that prevent her from undertaking any 
work at present. The condition is not likely to improve  spontaneously. The medical 
evidence suggests  that future treatment is not likely  to change  the circumstances 
significantly and she is likely to remain permanently incapable of undertaking her 
previous role due to ill health.
At the time of writing,  she is in receipt  of Personal Independence Payment (PIP) and the 
occupational pension I referred  to above. She approached Vanquis and asked it what  help it 
could offer given  that her income had now significantly reduced. In May 2018, it agreed to 
accept a repayment of £5 per month  towards the outstanding debt. In February 2019, it 
reduced this to £1 a month and has also agreed  to suspend all interest  and charges. Despite 
this significant  reduction,  her most recent  Income and Expenditure questionnaire shows  that 
she has a disposal income of a little over £20 per month.  
She has asked Vanquis to write  off the outstanding debt. In a letter  to Vanquis, she set out in 
detail that the outstanding debts have had an adverse effect  on her mental health saying 
that they cause  additional stress, anxiety and depression which  exacerbate a low mood and 
make it almost impossible to function  My finances preoccupy my thoughts and I am 
constantly concerned  about money. 
Vanquis said it wasnt willing to do write  off the debt. Miss H was unhappy with this and so 
she referred the complaint to this service.  It was looked at by an investigator who upheld it. 
The investigator concluded that there was no realistic prospect that Vanquis would ever be 
able to recover the debt at a repayment  of £1 per month. She was also concerned  that Miss 
Ref: DRN82867892H told us the continued  existence  of the debt is a source of anxiety for her. The investigator 
felt that the fair and reasonable course  of action was for Vanquis  to simply write off the debt.
Vanquis disagreed  with the investigators opinion. It pointed out that it had arranged  for a 
Debt and Mental Health Form to be completed for Miss H by a mental  health  nurse.  This 
form sets out the details  of Miss Hs mental  health difficulties and what steps Vanquis might 
take in response. On that form,  it was recorded  that Miss Hs mental health difficulties do not 
affect her ability to manage her money. Vanquis  therefore didnt think it had done anything  
wrong in declining to write  off the debt. Because Vanquis disagreed  with the investigators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me to come  to a final decision
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The relevant  rules require Vanquis to treat customers in financial difficulties with forbearance 
and due consideration. And where a customer suffers  with a mental health condition  that is 
long-term, shows no real likelihood of improvement and where its highly  unlikely that the 
person will be able to repay the debt, I consider it to be good industry practice for a firm like 
Vanquis to consider whether writing  off the debt in full is the appropriate  thing to do. 
From the information Ive seen, its unlikely Miss Hs income will return to its prior level in the 
future. And Miss H has told us that the continued existence of the debt is a source  of anxiety 
for her. Vanquis has temporarily agreed  to accept  a reduced payment - but its 
understandable that shed worry about the possibility of that situation  changing. As a result, 
its foreseeable that future contact from Vanquis  (for example, to review whether her monthly  
repayments are still set at an affordable level) risks making her anxiety levels  worse. 
The Debt  and Mental Health Evidence form does  say that Miss Hs mental  health  condition 
doesnt affect her ability to manage  her money.  But that doesnt mean that shes  not affected 
in the way shes described  i.e. the debt hanging  over her is a cause of stress. The form 
also doesnt cover the fact that Miss Hs mental  health difficulties are one of the primary 
factors preventing  her from working  a situation which the bulk of the evidence shes  
supplied suggests  is unlikely to change in the future. 
These factors, in addition to the fact that Vanquis  is unlikely to ever successfully recover the 
debt, persuades me that the fair and reasonable thing to do is to write off the debt.  
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.  
Vanquis Bank Limited should now write off Miss Hs outstanding debt and write to her to 
explain that it has done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82867893
Ref: DRN8286789