K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 during a meeting.  Mr M says Bank  of Scotland plc BoS mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before  adding 
it to his card. I cant be sure what was said at the time Mr M applied for his credit card and 
PPI but BoS has provided a copy of the application  form that was completed.  
The application form had a separate section for PPI where the policy  has been selected. The 
application form has also been signed  by Mr M. Mr M was also agreeing to an important 
financial commitment so I would have expected him to read the form and have asked any 
questions he may have had before signing in agreement with it. So I think  BoS made it clear 
that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he may not remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr M has told us that he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer when he applied  for the 
PPI and could  have relied on his late wife to help make his repayments.  But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mr Ms sick pay, and for longer. While Mr Ms late wife would 
have wanted to help, her ability to do so would have been dependent  on her circumstance at 
the time,  which could  have changed. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, he wasnt  affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr M about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr M about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN83554352Ive thought about everything Mr M has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  BoS should also pay back to Mr M any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
BoS should pay back to Mr M the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. BoS should also pay Mr M 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8355435