K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance  
(PPI) with a mortgage. 
background
Briefly:
In 1991 Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage during a branch meeting. Around the same time 
they took out PPI  in Mr Ps sole name  only  to protect their mortgage payments in the 
event Mr P couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. And it wouldve 
done so for up to 36 months for a single accident  or sickness  claim and 12 months  for a 
single unemployment  claim.
Santanders records show the first premium  was under £20 a month although it increased 
later on when it appears Mr and Mrs P borrowed more money  (it also appears Mr and Mrs 
Ps initial mortgage offer had retention of funds.)
At the time Mr P says he was entitled  to generous employee sick pay terms  he says he 
had an income protection arrangement through work  which  wouldve paid out for at least  12 
months. He also says he had some  savings and a private accident policy.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought Santander had given Mr 
and Mrs P a choice about PPI. And they didnt think the policy was mis-sold  they thought it 
was suitable for them.  They concluded  by saying the offer Santander made in relation to 
commission and profit share was a fair way to settle things.
Mr and Mrs P disagree, so the complaint comes to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this.
I can see Mr and Mrs P have said they were strongly advised that they stood a better 
chance of having their mortgage application  agreed  if they took out PPI. 
Santander has been able to provide some  of the paperwork  from the time  including  the 
mortgage application and the mortgage offer letter. Looking at the application,  there is a 
separate section  titled Payment care which had  Yes and No boxes next to the 
question: Do you wish to protect:- first applicant only  / Both applicants And the first 
applicant only Yes  box is ticked.  By having equally prominent Yes and No options, I 
dont think this wouldve  given Mr and Mrs P the impression they had to have PPI.
Ref: DRN87233452Looking at the mortgage offer letter, theres  nothing here which  said or implied PPI had 
to be taken out.
So while I hear what Mr and Mrs P say they were told, Ive not seen enough to support 
what they say happened.  I think the evidence suggests more likely  than not that they 
chose to take out PPI and did so without  undue pressure.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of Mr Ps circumstances at the time (Ive 
focused on Mr P predominantly  as the policy was in his sole name) I think  that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   for 
example those relating to existing medical conditions or unusual employment 
circumstances  and he seems  to have  had a need for the cover.
Ive thought about Mr Ps existing means  including his sick pay arrangements.  But Mr P 
was the main household wage earner and both he and Mrs P were  taking on a not 
insignificant mortgage amount over the long term. So notwithstanding  their existing 
means, I think  the policy wouldve proved useful for them. It wouldve paid out in addition  
to and alongside any sick pay / income protection pay out. And because  the policy had a 
benefit period  of 36 months, it wouldve done so for longer if Mr P found himself in the 
unfortunate position of being off work  for an extended period of time. It also wouldve 
meant that any sick pay couldve been used  to meet other  ongoing household 
expenditure allowing any savings to be kept intact or retained for longer before  being 
needed.
In reaching my finding above, Im also mindful of two things - firstly Mr Ps told us he was 
in a senior position at the firm he worked  for at the time of the sale. But the mortgage 
application describes a less senior  role. So its possible his benefit package at the time of 
the sale, including his sick pay entitlement, was not as comprehensive as he remembers. 
Secondly, and notwithstanding the above,  I note that Mr P cannot recall  the exact terms 
of his employer  provided income protection scheme;  albeit he described it as being 
comprehensive. And while I have no reason to doubt that, in my experience it would be 
unusual for an income protection  plan to pay out 100% of income indefinitely or for an 
extended period  of time. At some point in time theyre typically capped at around  70% of 
gross income.
So while I think Mr P was likely entitled to full sick pay for a period of time,  at some point 
and if he was off work for an extended period of time, I think he wouldve incurred a 
reduction in income.
The policy also provided unemployment  cover. And while  Mr P says redundancy didnt  
happen and he believes hed have soon found another job if it had, this doesnt  mean  the 
cover was unsuitable  the purpose of insurance  cover  is to provide protection for the 
unexpected.
I accept its possible  the information Santander  gave  Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found above that they likely chose to take it out - 
so it looks like they wanted this type of cover, albeit cover that was recommended  to 
them. And it seems like it would  have been useful  for them  if something  went wrong as 
Ive also set out above. It looks like it was affordable too. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN87233453This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Santander didnt  tell 
Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs P have  said including what theyve said about their 
existing means, which  Ive discussed above and what Mr P says about not claiming  on the 
policy when he was ill  proof he didnt need it.
Ive already said why I dont think Mr Ps existing means made the policy  unsuitable. And 
while Mr P didnt make a claim on the policy when he might have been  able to, this isnt in 
and of itself sufficient evidence that he didnt need  it at the time he took it out or that he 
wouldnt have benefitted from it. So these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs P any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
So Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs P the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs P 8%* simple  interest on each payment  (15% on payments before  April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs P can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps mis-sale 
complaint, so Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs P.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8723345