K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the amount she has been  charged by Aviva Insurance  Limited  for the 
installation of a boiler.  
background
Miss S has a HomeHeat 200 HomeServe policy which provides cover in the event  of 
problems with gas central heating and gas supply  at the property. Part of the cover is 
insured through Aviva and the remainder of the policy provides servicing for boiler and a 
boiler health check. This part of the policy isnt underwritten by an insurer.
On 21 December 2017, Miss S had a fault with her boiler and was without hot water  or 
heating. An engineer attended the property  on 22 December 2017 and declared  the boiler 
wasnt economical to repair (BER   beyond economical repair). As the boiler was over seven  
years old, under the policy, Miss S was entitled to have the boiler sourced and replaced  but 
she would  need  to cover  the installation costs.  
Miss S called for an update on 27 December 2017.  And on 29 December 2017 she called as 
shed been given a quote for £1,213.05 for the installation but believed  a local gas engineer 
could supply and fit a new boiler  for £1,500, less than the cost of the policy  and the 
installation; shed been given a provisional date of 9 January 2018 for installation.  Miss S 
subsequently paid for the installation and the boiler  was installed on 10 January 2018.
Miss S complained about the delays in the new boiler being fitted. She said she was left 
without hot water and heating  from 21 December  2017 to 10 January 2018. During this time 
it was very cold and she had a young child in the household. She also complained she 
should have been provided  with temporary  heaters  and was also unhappy  with the amount  
she had to pay to install the boiler.  
The complaint was upheld in part. It was agreed there were delays and Miss S was offered 
£350 for the distress and inconvenience  caused which she accepted. But her complaint 
about the cost of the installation wasnt upheld as she knew  the cost before the installation  
went ahead. 
Miss S asked us to look into this matter. She said the cost of the installation wasnt  fair and 
any issues should have  been picked up by the service she had done only a couple of 
months previous.  Our investigator looked  into the complaint but didnt  uphold  it. She 
explained we couldnt look into any complaint about  the service, as that wasnt  an insured 
part of the contract  and so not a regulated  activity  we could consider. She also explained 
that under  the terms Miss S was required to pay for the installation of the boiler and she 
knew the cost before  she went  ahead.
Miss S has asked for the matter to be reviewed. She remains unhappy with the cost of the 
boiler installation.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN89035172Miss S has provided any further comment about the boiler service.  For the sake  of 
completeness as this wasnt an underwritten part of the policy I agree with what the 
investigator said about us not being  able to look at that.
Miss S policy provides:
Obsolete parts and BER  after 6 months  if upon making  a claim after the 6 
months of cover  your boiler is deemed  to be BER or the parts  required to fix your 
boiler are obsolete and the boiler, and is less than 7 years old, we will source, 
replace and install a new boiler. If the boiler  is deemed beyond economical repair 
and 7 years  or older, we will source,  replace and install a new boiler  but you will be 
required to pay the installation costs. We will provide  for you, a quote for this work.   
Aviva has provided evidence that its contractors quote was for £1, 213.05.  And its records 
show Miss S received this quote by 29 December 2017. Miss S called HomeServe on that 
day to complain about the quote shed been given. So she was aware of what the installation 
was going to cost her in advance of her agreeing  to it. And the records show it was at this 
point Miss S said she could get a local engineer to provide the boiler and fit it for about 
£1,500; cheaper  than the cost of the policy and the installation  quote.   
So Im satisfied from the evidence available that Miss S was both aware of how much  the 
installation was going to cost and that she might have been able to arrange this elsewhere  
for a different  cost. Yet I understand she went ahead with Avivas  installation. I appreciate 
the time of year may have  meant  it was difficult  to arrange her own installation, but Im 
nevertheless satisfied Miss S was aware  of the cost and had a choice about whether or not 
to go ahead. So Im not persuaded Aviva has done  anything wrong. 
As I dont find Aviva  has done  anything I dont uphold this complaint or make any award 
against it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept  or reject my decision before 
17 February 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8903517