K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  about the travel insurance attached  to his account with American  Express  
Services Europe Limited (AESEL). 
background
Mr M has a Platinum  membership with AESEL and this has a number of features and 
benefits attached to it, including  travel cover.
Mr M must meet the eligibility  criteria  set out in terms and conditions  of the travel policy  in 
order to benefit  from the cover. But due to the way the medical system is set up is his 
country of residence, the business  has told him he doesnt qualify for travel  protection.
Mr M has been paying an annual fee for his Platinum  card,  so he thinks  its unfair  to be 
charged for cover he could never  use. And since being informed he doesnt  qualify for travel 
protection, Mr M has had to purchase separate cover elsewhere.  
Mr M believes the business shouldnt have allowed him to apply for this cover in the first 
place. And he is unhappy  to have found  out he isnt covered for something he believed he 
was.
As such,  he referred  his complaint to this service.  The investigator didnt uphold  the 
complaint as she didnt  feel the business  had done  something wrong.  
Mr M disagreed so the complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the travel  insurance policy  and can see a list of 
conditions are set out under the heading  who is covered. One of these conditions is that 
the protected person must  be registered with a UK general practitioner or an equivalent 
medical practitioner in their country  of residence.  As Mr M isnt registered with a medical 
practitioner in his country of residence,  he doesnt meet the eligibility criteria of the policy. 
And wouldnt be able to make a claim.  
Mr M is unhappy  hes been paying  an annual  fee for his card because he believes this 
included a charge toward the insurance  benefits. Ive looked into this and can confirm the 
Platinum membership comes with a number  of features and benefits attached to it, including  
travel cover. However, Mr M hasnt been charged  any extra  for the travel  protection element. 
Under important information of the policy terms and conditions it states there is no 
additional charge or premium for this insurance. This is also reiterated under the heading 
what will you have to pay American Express for their services?  where  it says there  is no 
additional charge, fee or premium payable for the insurance benefits provided with your 
card.
Mr M has said the business shouldnt have allowed him to apply for this cover in the first 
place if he wasnt eligible to make  a claim. But I can see the terms and conditions  state the 
business has not provided opinions or recommendations on the suitability of the insurance.  
Ref: DRN87828352This means  it was Mr Ms decision to take out the cover, based on the information  provided 
to him. And, as set out above, Im satisfied  the eligibility criteria was set out in his policy 
document. Mr M could  have checked through the policy information for anything relevant  to 
his specific circumstances. The responsibility  was not on the business to do this. 
Mr M has asked  our position if hed needed medical treatment and had been  unable to claim  
on the policy. Although  we wouldnt  normally look at a hypothetical  situation,  in this case I 
want to reassure Mr M that Ive considered all his comments. So, in those circumstances I 
wouldve again looked into whether the policy was mis-sold. And (as explained above) it was 
Mr Ms responsibility to establish  if this product  was right for him so I wouldnt say the 
business has done something  wrong. . 
I note Mr Ms comments about only taking out the Platinum card to make use of the travel  
cover. But I can see the card came with many  other  features and benefits Mr M was able to 
make use of. 
In summary,  even though Mr M was unable to use his travel insurance, it was his decision to 
take out the platinum  card and the benefits  it came with. And he hasnt been  charged any 
extra for the travel protection.  
Im pleased Mr M and his family are now covered by an independent policy  for future travels 
Its clear that having travel  protection in place is of great importance  to Mr M, so it mustve 
been distressing  to establish he couldnt ever have made a travel claim living in his current 
country of residence. But I hope Ive explained why I dont  think  the business has done 
something wrong. 
. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8782835