K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS), mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr C bought the policy in 2003 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. The PPI policy was part of a packaged  protection plan 
called Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) and it consisted of three parts  Mortgage 
Repayments Cover Plan (the PPI), critical illness and life cover.  In this decision Ive only 
considered Mr Cs complaint about  the PPI element  of the policy.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £745.36 a month towards  Mr Cs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £45.17  a month.  
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as a football  player. He has told us he was entitled to sick 
pay if he was too unwell  to work but couldnt  remember the details of this or any redundancy 
benefits he was entitled to if he lost his job. Mr C didnt have any other financial means, such  
as savings, he could  have relied  upon  to make  his mortgage repayments in the event he 
wasnt working. Mr C was in good health at the time of the sale.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2006.
Mr Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Cs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr C about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr C and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN84283822The information Mr C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN84283823The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So, Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Cs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN84283824-Whether BoS gave  Mr C sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Mr C has said it was included as 
part of the mortgage package. 
BoS hasnt been able to give us much information  to show how the PPI was sold or provide 
much paperwork  from the time of the sale. But given how long ago the sale took place and 
the mortgage account closed, I dont find this surprising. Businesses arent obliged to keep  
paperwork indefinitely. And Mr C hasnt  been able to give us much recollection  about the 
sale, again which is unsurprising. So, in these circumstances, I need  to decide what I think is 
most likely to have happened, based  on the very limited information available  to me. 
BoS has been able to provide some  computer data from the time of the sale which include 
computer screenshots  which show that Mr C appears to have answered a number of 
questions asked by the BoS representative about his eligibility  for the PPI policy.  And from 
what we know about how BoS sold these types of policies from the time of the sale, I think 
its more likely than not that during the discussion  about the policy  the representative would 
have made  it clear that it was optional, and that Mr C agreed to take it. I dont think  Ive got 
any particular reason in this case  to think that the representative wouldnt have made this 
clear or obtained Mr Cs agreement to the purchase. 
I have a seen  a copy of Mr Cs signature on the PPI application as well as a MRC POLICY  
ACCEPTANCE FORM  which  was sent to him as a result of that application. Mr C had to 
sign and return the acceptance form in order to proceed with the PPI and I can see that he 
did. 
Taking everything into account,  what I have doesnt  persuade me that BoS didnt  give Mr C a 
choice about taking the PPI. Also, Ive nothing to suggest he didnt  agree  to the policy. So, I 
think its more likely  that Mr C knew the policy was optional and he agreed  to take it out 
without undue pressure.  
did BoS provide advice?
Ref: DRN84283825BoS says it gave advice during the sale. Mr C hasnt  told us whether he recalls  advice  being  
give. But from what we know about  how BoS conducted sales around this time, I think its 
most likely that advice was provided.  I say this because this was an in-branch sale and the 
screenshots I have  referred to above  indicate that BoS representative looked to see whether 
Mr C was eligible for the policy and it is the sort of information gathering I would  expect to 
see for an advised sale. And Mr C hasnt  given me anything to the contrary  to consider. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr C with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr C. It seems  Mr C cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Cs 
circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to establish 
whether Mr C would  have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which 
might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr C given his circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr C had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Cs ability  to continue to meet 
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if Mr C was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for any sick pay or redundancy 
benefits he would have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr C.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr C. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Cs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for accident sickness and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given Mr Cs 
circumstances. The policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to his home 
and the potential consequences  should  Mr C be unable to make the repayments on 
loans secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr C sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN84283826the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr C was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr C was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr C would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr C agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr C all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr C? To what extent did Mr C suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr C. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr C suffered 
Ref: DRN84283827loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr C would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr C, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr C has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly,   
Mr C would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr C says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr C had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Cs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr C knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told him the exact premium at the point Mr C applied for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mr C would have been  told the cost before the 
policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with BoS at the time,  or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr C would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr C would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Cs expectations about what 
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his mortgage 
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  which  had 
been diagnosed by or for which treatment and/or advice had been  suggested  by a 
Ref: DRN84283828registered medical practitioner  during the 12 month  period  before the start date and 
which recurred within 12 months of the start date, or a chronic  or continuing  disease  
that Mr C was aware of at the start date and recurred within  12 months  of the start 
date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr C pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr C was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr C wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr C didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr C might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr C 
from taking out the policy,  Mr C, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr C had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr C was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mr C that any claim he made would be limited to a 24-month period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for  but 24 months 
was most likely to be a longer period than Mr C would  have  received  full sick pay for, and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr C would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
Ref: DRN84283829manage the consequences  should  Mr C be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk  for 
which he was solely responsible and might  potentially  help preserve Mr Cs sick pay or 
redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr C was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr C 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr C compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Ref: DRN842838210Im also aware that Mr C thinks BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr C, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr C and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8428382