K820x#14Complaint
Mr M, who is represented by Mr K, complains that FCE Bank Plc refused to let him reject  
a vehicle.
Background
In May 2018  Mr M acquired a new vehicle which he used for his business. It cost £28,720 
and was funded in part by a hire purchase agreement  with FCE. In July a warning light came  
on and Mr M called the AA. There was an error  code relating to the oil sensor.  The vehicle 
was taken to the dealer and repairs carried out. 
In late August the oil sensor message reappeared  and Mr M took the vehicle  back  to the 
dealer. Mr M says he was told a software  upgrade was carried out but given no paperwork. 
FCE has explained that the worksheets etc. were sent to it as the owner  of the vehicle.  A 
further warning light came  on in September and the vehicle was inspected by the dealer but 
it couldnt find a fault.
In October  Mr M contacted FCE because of the continuing problems and also because the 
fuel consumption was higher than expected. Mr M was asked to carry out a fuel test. FCE 
spoke to the dealer and it confirmed that it couldnt find any fault with the vehicle. It rejected 
Mr Ms complaint and he then brought the matter to this service. It was considered  by one of 
our investigators who didnt recommend the complaint be upheld
As far as the oil sensor was concerned  she noted Mr M hadnt  sought to reject  the vehicle at 
that point. Mr M gave the dealer the opportunity to repair it again and she thought  the 
evidence indicated the vehicle was brought up to satisfactory quality at that point. She didnt 
think it was unreasonable for the dealer to have updated the software given this was done  in 
accordance with the manufacturers recommendations. Nor did she think  it should have 
asked for his permission.
She also considered  the exhaust filter cleaning message and noted the photos Mr M had 
sent. Mr M had said these seemed to be linked with a loss of power.  FCE said that the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) cleans up soot in the exhaust.  This regeneration process is automatic 
and takes place whilst the car is being driven  and when the driver maintains a sufficient 
speed and distance.
Mr M had said the dealer  advised him to drive faster and drive  longer distances as it thought 
he may be switching off the engine before the regeneration has completed.  She added  that 
industry guidelines suggest the regeneration process takes place between 100-500 mile 
intervals. She referred  to the dealers records and concluded there wasnt  evidence  of a 
fault; it was probably  the normal function of the diesel vehicle.
As for the fuel consumption she noted it was high,  but Mr M had installed a water tank in the 
rear along with machinery and this had meant  the vehicle was close  to its maximum 
operating weight. This would have an impact on fuel economy. She also noted that Mr M had 
done over 10,000 miles in some five months. Finally she noted that Mr M had modified the 
vehicle without giving FCE due notice.
Ref: DRN89437462Mr K didnt agree and reiterated that the vehicle was faulty.  He explained that Mr M was an 
experienced driver and disputed that he had stopped the regeneration process early. He said 
Mr M had bought another vehicle and didnt have any problems with it. He also said FCE 
hadnt notified him in writing that the warranty had been invalidated  by the modifications.  
He said a local garage which had knowledge of the vehicle was willing  to speak  to the 
investigator. She asked for a written report.  Mr M said the garage  had sent a report by 
recorded delivery, but this wasnt received by this service. It was unable  to let us have a 
copy as it had suffered  a computer malfunction. No details of the record  of the delivery  by 
the Post Office  were forthcoming. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FCE is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I am aware  of the difficulties faced by Mr M and his partner and the stress  this situation has 
caused them. I have  every sympathy  with Mr M, but I find myself in agreement  with our 
investigator. I will explain why. 
Having read the AA reports I can see Mr M had an issue early on and I appreciate his 
concern about  the quality of the vehicle. However,  he agreed for the dealer to make a repair 
and this is what it did. I havent seen evidence that would allow me to conclude this repair 
wasnt satisfactory. Mr M has had the opportunity to submit evidence  about the state  of the 
vehicle from another  garage, but hasnt done  so. 
I appreciate what he and Mr K have  told me about the issues he faced, but the dealer has 
disagreed and having seen its contemporaneous  records I would need more evidence  to 
reach a conclusion that the vehicle wasnt fit for purpose at the time of sale.  
Ref: DRN89437463I have the same problem  with the complaint about  the DPF and I gather it is not unusual for 
the warning lights  to come on when  short  trips are being made.  FCE suggested Mr M take it 
to another dealer for a second  opinion and I am not aware that Mr M acted on this 
suggestion. The dealer didnt consider there was an underlying fault and I have no reason to 
disagree with it.
On the matter of poor fuel consumption I note that the modification made by Mr M meant  that 
the vehicle was close to maximum weight and this would reduce the fuel efficiency. As such I 
cannot uphold  this aspect of his complaint.
I see he made extensive use of the vehicle despite the problems he encountered and taking 
that and all the other material  I have been given into account  I dont  consider I can uphold 
his complaint. I appreciate Mr M has been  greatly upset by the matter and he has my 
sympathy. I can only suggest that he talks to FCE and seeks  to reach  some  form of 
agreement on how to resolve his indebtedness. I would also remind  FCE of its responsibility 
to treat Mr M positively  and sympathetically.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8943746