K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained to us about  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy sold to him 
by Canada Square Operations Limited trading  as Egg (Canada Square) in 2000. 
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  this complaint  and said that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr G 
disagreed and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this. 
Mr G was sold the PPI policy with a credit  card.  These events took place many years  ago 
and in addition  the account  closed a long time ago. In cases such as these, it isnt unusual 
for information to be incomplete or missing. So Ive used my knowledge  and experience of 
PPI sales to help me assess what might  have happened. Ive reached  my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the cover  and based  on his 
circumstances, it looks like Mr G met these  rules. 
Next Ive looked at whether Canada Square made  it clear enough to Mr G that the PPI was 
optional. Mr G told us that he applied for his card by post. He told us there  was no mention 
of or disclosure about the PPI. He informed us that if he had been asked, he wouldnt have 
wanted the policy.
Canada Squares  records show  that Mr G took out his card online.  From  what we know  
about how this type of policy was sold, there  would have been a section in his application 
about the PPI.  The  website would  have given Mr G a choice of whether to accept the policy  
or to decline  it. Ive thought carefully  about  what Mr G has told us, but without stronger 
evidence Im not persuaded its most likely  that he would have turned down the policy. And I 
dont think its likely  that Canada Square failed to give him a choice. I think its most likely 
that it was made clear  to him that the policy was optional and that he chose  to take it out.  
Next, Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI cover with the card so this means  it wasnt 
under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mr Gs situation. However, it was 
required to give him information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could 
make the decision for himself whether or not to take out the policy.
Mr G has told us he was entitled to statutory sick pay, and we know the cost of the policy 
was approximately  £0.59 per £100  of the outstanding monthly balance on the card. Ive seen 
nothing that suggests Mr G would have found these monthly charges unaffordable. In the 
event of a successful claim for example, Mr G would  have been able to have his outstanding 
Ref: DRN82430692balance reduced  by 10% each month  for up to 12 months. These  benefits  were  accessible in 
addition to any other means  he already  had in place at the time. 
Finally, given his circumstances, I dont think that Mr G would have been caught  by the main 
exclusions and restrictions of the PPI. So on balance, I dont think having better information 
would have put him off taking it out. Overall, I think this policy  wasnt  mis-sold and so I dont 
require Canada Square to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8243069