K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Progressive Money Limited  lent to her when she couldnt  afford  it. 
She has also complained  about the level of service she received when she fell into financial  
difficulties.
background
Miss M took out one loan with Progressive in March 2017. Miss M ran into financial 
difficulties repaying  her loan and complained  to Progressive. Progressive didnt uphold  her 
complaint and so she referred it to this service.
Our adjudicators considered the level of service Miss M received alongside the affordability 
of the loan. Our adjudicators thought that Miss M couldnt afford the loan and Progressive 
shouldnt have lent to her. The adjudicator also thought that the level of service  from 
Progressive fell short and recommended it paid Miss M £450 compensation.
Progressive disagreed. It said it took sufficient steps  to ensure the loan was affordable and 
the level of service it provided by contacting Miss M about her arrears  and its dealings when 
she was in financial difficulties was in line with its policies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loan was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing without it 
significantly adversely  impacting  on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed  was due to be repaid. 
Progressive lent Miss M a loan of £2,000 to be repaid  over 24 months with monthly 
repayments of £157.16.  Progressive lent Miss M more than £1,000 which  she initially applied  
for as it says it required her to consolidate  her existing short-term loans, which  she did.
I think Progressive took steps to gain an understanding  of Miss Ms financial circumstances, 
but I dont think  it reacted  sufficiently to the results of its checks. Miss Ms credit  file shows 
that she had three delinquent accounts  recently and had two active defaults on her credit 
file. I appreciate that Miss M told Progressive that the defaults  were due to her being off work 
temporarily, but I dont  think her financial circumstances had particularly improved from the 
time. Progressive also consolidated two of Miss Ms short-term loans but I think  it should still 
have been aware  that she had problem managing her money.
Ref: DRN85929732Progressive has provided Miss Ms bank statements and from what I can see, her recorded  
income on the bank  statement was around  £2,777 but the bank statement  also showed that 
Miss M spent over £1,000 on gambling sites, this is a significant  amount of Miss Ms income  
as its more than a third of Miss Ms income. Although Miss M has said this was recreational, 
this wasnt sustainable  and taking into account, the other financial indicators Progressive 
knew about Miss M, it ought  to have been reasonably aware  that shell struggle to repay this 
loan. This was borne out by the fact that Miss M encountered difficulties repaying  the loan 
within a short time. As a responsible lender, shouldnt have lent to her.
The level of service
Miss M has complained that the contact from Progressive has been excessive and it hasnt 
treated her fairly in her financial  difficulties.
On 1 August  2017, Miss Ms direct debit payment for her loan failed and I can see that 
Progressive wrote to her about  this at the time. Miss M had a conversation  with Progressive 
about her financial  situation around this time. Ive listened to the call and can hear that 
Miss M explained her situation providing  details  of her income and expenditure at the time. 
Progressive requested bank statements. In September 2017,  Miss M provided  copies  of her 
bank statements to progressive. Progressive is expected to show  forbearance and treat 
Miss M sympathetically  and positively. 
Progressive in its final response seems to acknowledge that the bank statements show  Miss 
M was repaying several debts and struggling but I havent seen any evidence that it took that 
into account and tried to agree a repayment plan with Miss M at the time. I can see that 
Progressive continued to send letters of arrears to Miss M and was making  between  three  to 
five phone calls to her every week. 
Progressive also received  communication from a debt charity  explaining that Miss M was in 
a debt management plan. The debt charity  explained that Miss M struggling financially and 
proposed a payment towards the loan. Progressive said that it didnt accept  the proposal as 
it needed to assess  Miss Ms income and expenses first. This concerns me because 
Progressive already had Miss Ms bank statements in September  2017  and it knew  she was 
struggling financially. Progressive has confirmed that it ceased  adding interest and charges 
to Miss Ms account from August 2011,  which I think was reasonable. But I also think it had 
enough information in September 2017 to agree a repayment plan with Miss M, this would 
have prevented the need for regularly trying to contact Miss M about the arrears on the 
account.
I can see that the debt charity made  a number  of proposals for the repayment of the loan,  
from the information provided by Progressive, the debt charity  sent around  five letters 
proposing a payment plan. These proposals along with Miss Ms bank statement gave 
Progressive enough information to agree a suitable payment plan.
In both its final response letters, Progressive acknowledges  and apologised to Miss M for 
contacting her on two occasions where it says it shouldnt  have  contacted her.
Ref: DRN85929733I appreciate that Progressive had a duty to contact  Miss M about  her account arrears but Im 
also mindful that it had enough information showing she was struggling, and it could have 
reached a repayment  plan with Miss M around September 2017  which  would have 
prevented the need to the extensive contact with Miss M. I can understand why Miss M 
would have found the contact excessive and distressing and I think Progressive needs to put 
things right.
Given the length of time Progressive was attempting to contact Miss M and the number of 
calls, I think it had a significant  impact  on Miss M where she says she felt that nothing she 
attempted was sufficient  for Progressive and she found the repeated calls distressing and 
causing her anxiety. I think £450 would be fair compensation in these circumstances.
Progressive also needs  to put things right for Miss M for lending  to her when it should have 
known shed likely struggle to repay.
Putting things  right  what  Progressive  should  do;
Remove all the interest  and charges  applied  to the loan;
treat all payments  Miss M has made towards  the capital amount of £2,000;
Miss M is likely to have made payments  over the capital amount borrowed, 
Progressive should add 8% simple interest  to the overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement;
Pay Miss M £450 for trouble and upset;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ms credit file as a result  of this 
loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive  to take off tax from this interest. Progressive must  
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint and direct Progressive 
Money Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March  2021.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8592973