K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  has declined his 
claim for a coma  under  his critical illness policy.
Mr H is represented by his wife, Mrs H.
background
Sadly, Mr H suffered from an abscess on the brain  which required surgery,  and led to Mr H 
being put in an induced  coma in 2013.  Mr H has experienced debilitating symptoms  ever 
since, and so he made a claim  for coma on his critical  illness  policy. 
The definition of coma  in Mr Hs policy is:
A state  of unconsciousness with no reaction to external stimuli or internal needs, persisting  
continuously with the use of life support systems  for a period of at least 96 hours,  and 
resulting in permanent neurological deficit.
Legal and General considered Mr Hs claim but it didnt accept his circumstances met the 
definition of coma  in his policy.  It said this was because Mr Hs medical  records indicated 
that when he was in a coma he responded to external stimuli. It also didnt think Mr Hs 
continued neurological deficit was caused  by the coma,  instead  believing it was caused  by 
the abscess. But it explained it didnt need to make a firm finding on this, because Mr H had 
responded to external stimuli  and so the policy  definition hadnt been met. 
Mr H referred  the matter to us. An investigator looked into his complaint but she didnt 
uphold it. She thought  the medical evidence showed that Mr H didnt meet the policy 
definition of coma, and so she didnt think Legal  and General  had done  anything wrong in 
turning down his claim.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said he is still experiencing significant 
difficulties, and his mother was misled into believing hed be able to successfully claim in the 
future (back when she approached Legal and General about his condition  in 2013). He was 
also unhappy Legal and General hadnt contacted his medical consultants  to find out what 
they thought, particularly  as his mother had told him there had been a mix up with his 
medical records. Mr H asked  for an ombudsman to review  his complaint and so its been  
passed to me for a decision.
I asked Legal  and General for any notes  or calls it had in relation to what Mr H had said 
about his mother  being misled into believing  hed successfully  claim in the future.  
Legal and General provided a summary of the call it had with Mr Hs mother  in 2013 (as the 
call recording  was no longer available).  The investigator reviewed the call summary and 
explained to Mr H that she couldnt  see any evidence that Mr Hs mother had been  misled, 
as it appeared  Legal and General simply told her to review the policy  document,  and that a 
claim could  be made,  if necessary, in the future.
Im now in a position  to decide this complaint.
Ref: DRN85965952my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Id firstly  like to say how sorry I am to hear about the difficulties Mr H has experienced since  
his brain abscess - I can see this has had a big impact on his life. However, what  Ive had to 
look at is whether it was fair that Legal  and General declined Mr Hs claim for coma, and, 
having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint, for 
broadly the same reasons  as the investigator.
In order for a claim to be accepted under the terms of the policy,  Mr H needed to have been 
in a state of unconsciousness, with no reaction to external stimuli. This needed to persist 
continuously, with the use of life support systems,  for at least  96 hours. And, the period of 
unconsciousness also needed to result in permanent neurological deficit.
Ive carefully considered  the medical evidence against this definition  to decide whether or not 
Legal and General have  acted fairly. I can see from Mr Hs medical records  that he was 
seriously ill following  the discovery of his brain  abscess   theres no doubt about  this. But a 
Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score  is noted every day in Mr Hs medical records, and these 
scores suggest Mr Hs condition didnt meet the policy  definition  of coma. 
For information, a persons state  of consciousness  can be measured using the GCS. Eye 
opening, verbal responses  and voluntary movements  (or motor) are assessed and scored. 
When added  up, these equate to an overall GCS score.  Lower overall GCS scores suggest  
more severe impaired consciousness  such as a coma. There  are also different levels of 
coma ranging from people showing no response or awareness at all, to people  responding to 
stimulation, to people  being able to respond  to speech. The lowest overall GCS score  is 3, 
with the maximum being 15.
I can see that other than when Mr H was in theatre, he appears to have had, at lowest, a 
GCS of around 6, for a number of days in January 2013. Ive also looked at the separate eye 
opening, verbal and movement GCS scores, and I can see from his records his movement, 
or motor  response scores were  between 4 and 6, at their lowest.  These scores mean that 
some of Mr Hs limbs were reacting to the infliction  of pain. In turn, this means there was a 
reaction to external stimuli  so the policy definition of coma  wasnt  met.  
Mr Hs mother  (who was with Mr H at the time) disagrees Mr H responded to external stimuli. 
She remembers that any movement he made was assisted. However, Im more  persuaded 
by the medical  evidence.  This is because its detailed, contemporaneous, completed by 
medically qualified  staff, and refers to the GCS scores throughout  and Im satisfied I can 
rely on the GCS  score,  because it is a universal measure of the level of unconsciousness.
I know Mr H feels  Legal and General should have contacted his doctors or consultants about 
his health at the time. But Ive seen  nothing to suggest it not doing  so has negatively 
impacted the outcome of his claim given his medical  records show detailed notes from the 
time he was in a coma.  So I think its fair for Legal and General to rely on them in deciding 
whether or not Mr Hs state of unconsciousness met the definition in his policy.
And while Mr Hs mother  has reported there  was a mix-up of his medical records at the 
hospital, Im persuaded the parts of the records Ive relied on to determine the policy  
Ref: DRN85965953definition of coma hasnt been  met relate to Mr H  there are no anomalies which would lead 
me to believe they dont.  
I also know Mr H feels strongly that hes suffered permanent  neurological  deficit, but Im not 
going to make a finding on this. This is because even if this is the case, his claim still 
wouldnt meet the policy definition  of coma because as Ive explained, Ive decided  Mr H 
was responding  to external stimuli (when  he was unconscious).
Finally, while  Mr Hs representative  told us Legal  and General misled  Mr Hs mother and 
Mr H into thinking a successful claim could be made  in the future, based on the evidence  I 
have seen, I dont  think Legal and General deliberately misled them, or raised their 
expectations. Its unfortunate,  but understandable that the call recording is no longer  
available given the time that has since passed,  but the detailed call summary  shows  
Legal and General explained Mr H might be able to make a claim in the future.  Mr H has 
done this. And, Mr Hs mother,  during  a recent  call with us, also now remembers  the 
conversation similarly.  So Im satisfied  I can rely on Legal and Generals call note.
In summary,  I accept Mr H is suffering with debilitating symptoms  that have had a huge 
impact on his quality of life. But I dont think the available medical evidence shows he met 
the definition set out in the policy for a successful coma claim. For that reason, Im satisfied 
Legal and General was entitled not to pay out. 
my final decision
I recognise Mr H will be disappointed by my decision, and naturally Im sympathetic, but for 
the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold his complaint against  Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8596595