K821x#15complaint
Ms A and her son, Mr A, have complained about  Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a 
claim under their home  insurance  policy, including the level of its cash settlement offer, after 
their kitchen was damaged by an escape  of water.
background
In August  2018,  Ms A and Mr As kitchen was damaged following an escape of water  from 
their next-door neighbours pipe. They made a claim under their policy which Aviva 
accepted.
Aviva arranged for the property to be dried and assessed the repair work which  was needed.  
Ms A and Mr A asked that Avivas  contractor carry out the repair work.
Ms A and Mr A became  unhappy with various  aspects  of the repair  work and with Avivas 
handling of their claim. They  asked that Aviva  provide them with a new kitchen. Aviva 
wouldnt do this. It explained  that it was liable  only to replace the damaged items. If there 
was a need to replace undamaged matching items,  it would contribute  50% towards this 
cost.
Ms A and Mr A wanted to replace undamaged matching items. However,  they refused to pay 
50% of the cost of these because they considered the amount they were being charged  by 
Avivas contractor was excessive.
Aviva therefore decided to settle the remainder  of the claim with a cash  payment, based on 
the cost it would have incurred had it settled the claim using its own contractors. This was 
£2,472.
Ms A and Mr A complained to AXA. They considered it had made an unfair settlement. They 
also considered  it had handled the claim poorly and caused unnecessary delays.
Aviva issued a final response  letter. It explained  that it had based  its settlement offer on 
100% of the cost of fitting and replacing damaged items and 50% of the cost of fitting and 
replacing undamaged  matching items. It agreed to increase the settlement by £250  to 
include the cost of painting. This brought the total settlement to £2,722. It also offered £150 
compensation for delays earlier on in the claim.
Ms A and Mr A were unhappy at Avivas offer. They referred their complaint to us.
While the complaint was under investigation, Mr A and Ms A drew attention to what they 
considered to be inadequate quality  of work by Avivas contractor. They  said this had 
resulted in them incurring extra expense in the fitting  of their kitchen.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:
First, let me deal with Avivas liabilities  under the policy. It is obliged to repair  items 
damaged as a result  of an insured peril. It is not obliged to repair undamaged items. 
However, when the damaged items form part of a matching  set, we would normally  expect 
an insurer to offer a contribution towards  the cost of replacing the undamaged matching 
items.
Ref: DRN81179412In this case, some of Ms A and Mr As kitchen  units were  damaged  and Aviva was unable to 
repair these in such a way that they matched the remaining  undamaged units. Aviva  
therefore offered  a 50% contribution towards  the cost of replacing and fitting the undamaged 
items. Im satisfied this was fair.
Ms A and Mr A think Aviva should have  paid for the full cost of replacing their entire kitchen. 
They first advanced  this argument about six weeks after making their claim and have raised 
it on several occasions since. They have variously said that Aviva  should do this because 
the escape of water  wasnt their fault;  because  Aviva had caused delays; and because it 
would make economic  sense. The investigator seemed to think that Aviva had agreed to pay 
the full cost of a replacement kitchen, including undamaged items, and that this was 
reflected in its settlement offer. The investigator was wrong about this; Aviva has 
consistently advised that it is not prepared to pay the full cost of replacing undamaged items.  
Im satisfied there are no reasonable grounds  to say that Aviva must pay the full cost of a 
replacement kitchen.
Aviva made arrangements to replace Ms A and Mr As kitchen, subject to them  paying  50% 
of the cost of replacing and fitting  the undamaged items. However,  Ms A and Mr A made 
clear they were unwilling to pay this cost. They had previously made clear that they would 
not accept the refitting of items which wouldnt match the existing undamaged items.  Im 
satisfied that this left Aviva with no option but to make a cash  settlement, thus allowing Ms A 
and Mr A to choose their own kitchen and a contractor to fit it.
Aviva offered a cash settlement of £2,472.  This was to cover  the full cost of replacing  and 
fitting damaged  items, and 50% of the cost of replacing and fitting undamaged items. It was 
the amount which the claim would have cost Aviva had it used its own contractor to do the 
work. It later added a further £250  to cover the cost of painting  the kitchen.  Im satisfied this 
settlement was fair.
Ms A and Ms A say there have been delays in the handling of the claim. There  have been 
some delays. In particular, there was a delay between the drying being completed in October  
2018 and the work  starting. Aviva  points out that its contractor offered to start work in the 
week before  Christmas 2018 but Ms A and Mr A asked that this be delayed until the New 
Year. However, even  if work had begun in December 2018, this was still a delay. And during 
this time, Ms A and Mr A had to put up with a hole in the wall between their and their 
neighbours property, which they say impacted on their privacy.  Aviva has offered £150 
compensation for this delay. Im satisfied this was fair.
Ms A and Mr A have also complained that Aviva didnt adequately compensate  them for loss 
of cooking facilities.  I can see that Aviva  agreed  to pay £50 per day in total to compensate  
the three adults in the property for the seven days they were  expected  to be without cooking 
facilities. Im satisfied this was fair. However, Ms A and Mr A say they were left without 
cooking facilities for more  than seven days due to the over-running  of the repair work. 
However, according to the file, the repair work  started on 17 January 2019. And at midday 
on 24 January 2019, Aviva contacted  Ms A who confirmed that all facilities were by then 
working. So I dont  consider  that Ms A and Mr A have  shown  they were underpaid their food 
allowance during this period.
Ms A and Mr A say that they were left without a hob for a further two days  later on, due to a 
problem with the gas connection.  It seems  likely  that this problem was due to Avivas  
contractor. I consider this would have caused  Ms A and Mr A some further inconvenience, 
Ref: DRN81179413albeit it appears they would  have  had other means of cooking  meals on those days. I 
consider it fair that Aviva should pay £50 compensation for this.
Ms A and Mr A have also said that the workmanship of Avivas  contractor was poor. The 
investigator agreed that there was a problem with the gap between the tiling and the wall 
unit. He said Aviva should pay to enable this to be put right, though he didnt specify  how 
much he thought this should be. Ms A and Mr A raised other issues,  such as poor finish  
around electrical sockets, which  the investigator didnt address.
I understand that Ms A and Mr As contractors  have now completed the installation of their 
new kitchen. I think the evidence provided  by Ms A and Mr A does suggest the workmanship 
could have been better in places but most  of the issues  seemed relatively  minor to me. They 
are merely snagging issues. I consider that £200 is sufficient compensation to have enabled 
Ms A and Mr A to address these issues.
This means  that, in total, I think that Aviva should  pay Ms A and Mr A an additional £250 in 
compensation.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Ms A and Mr A didnt accept my provisional  decision. They  accepted my finding that Aviva 
needed to contribute only 50% to the cost of replacing undamaged matching items but they 
considered that Aviva  had underestimated  the total cost of the repair  work in its settlement 
figure. They further said that the snagging work was more substantial than I had implied and 
included the realignment of all the base  units.  They said that as a result of all this, they were 
over £700  out of pocket even after taking into account my provisional  award  of £200 
compensation for the snagging  issues. They  also continued to dispute  the compensation 
they received  for loss of cooking facilities, saying that they should have received eight days  
of compensation  for the period between 17 January and 24 January 2019.
Aviva didnt comment on my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
Ms A and Mr A say they have been left out of pocket after paying their kitchen fitter. They 
consider that Aviva  underestimated the cost of the work when it made  its cash settlement. 
However, as I explained in my provisional  decision,  Ms A and Mr A effectively left Aviva  with 
no choice but to offer a cash settlement. In these  circumstances, Aviva was required to pay 
no more than the amount it would have paid its own contractor to do the work. Im satisfied 
that Aviva  based its cash settlement on the amount it would have cost had it used its own 
contractor. The fact that Ms A and Mr A ended up paying more  is not, in itself, proof that 
Aviva treated them unfairly.
I accept that additional work was required due to snagging issues  which  had been left by 
Avivas contractor. But I remain  of the opinion that, based on the photographic and video 
evidence provided  by Ms A and Mr A, these issues were not particularly significant. 
I therefore remain satisfied that £200  compensation is sufficient in this respect.
Ref: DRN81179414Ms A and Mr A continue to believe they should  be paid eight days  of compensation at £50 a 
day for the period between 17 January and 24 January 2019 while they were without 
cooking facilities. I explained in my provisional decision that there  is evidence  to show  that 
full facilities had been reintroduced by midday on 24 January 2019. Aviva  paid £350 
compensation to cover  a period of seven days while there were no facilities.  Im satisfied that 
this was fair. As I explained in my provisional  decision, however, I consider that Aviva  should 
pay a further £50 to compensate Ms A and Mr A for the brief period later on when they were 
without a hob.
In light of the above, and given that Aviva didnt comment, Im satisfied  that my provisional 
decision should stand.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Ms A and Mr A £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 August 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8117941