K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as AEGON)  wont  honour the 
pension values that theyve been sending him for many years.
background
In 1992 Mr S took out a pension with Aegon. Contributions were made by both himself  and 
his employer. 
Since then up until 2017,  Mr S has received  two separate statements with different policy  
numbers, showing different values.
In 2017 Mr S contacted Aegon asking them to amend  his plans as he was planning to retire 
later than the date the policies were set to. It was then that Aegon  told Mr S that he only had 
one plan, and whilst  he was receiving separate statements, the value of the second plan was 
included within the other plan.
Mr S was unhappy with this and complained. Aegon offered Mr S £750 for the distress and 
inconvenience its mistake  had caused him. But it said it couldnt honour  the values given in 
the statements  as this would be to pay him more than his entitlement.
Mr S says that he had for nearly 25 years relied on these statements and to now be told his 
pension is worth £70,000 less than he expected is a huge shock.  And he now doesnt have 
the time or earning  capacity to put this sort of money back into his pension  as he only has 
approximately 10 years left until retirement.
Our investigator looked into the case,  she asked a number of questions of Aegon  around 
discrepancies in the values to determine  whether the statements were in fact errors. And 
after Aegons responses she was satisfied that the statements issued didnt reflect Mr S 
actual entitlement  and an error had occurred.
She felt that the £750 offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. She didnt think  
it was likely Mr S had made substantial plans  around the incorrect fund values.  She said 
Mr S loss was limited to one of expectation.
Mr S responded to say that he disagreed  with our investigator.  He told us that this error has 
been detrimental to his retirement plans, and hed relied on the statements given. The 
decision to stop pension contributions was taken at a time when he and his wife had a young 
family and was based on the (now known  to be incorrect) statements he received. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have real sympathy  with Mr S position. He has spent quite a bit of time 
and provided evidence to demonstrate that from his point  of view he was entitled to rely on 
the statements  he received from Aegon.
Ref: DRN80679912Often in this type of situation, there are indications that something is erroneous  with the 
statements and the customer might or ought to have  known this wasnt their entitlement.  But 
here I can see why Mr S didnt question  the statements he was receiving and thought  
genuinely that this was his entitlement.
However, our role is to put a customer back into the position they wouldve been if the error 
hadnt occurred.  Customers  arent  entitled  to profit from an error.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, Im satisfied  that Aegons  statements were 
incorrect. And regrettably Mr S pension  benefits were duplicated in one of the statements  
and therefore  he is only entitled to the actual value of the plan.
Therefore, even though I think Mr S was entitled  to rely on the incorrect  values he was given, 
I cant reasonably direct  Aegon to honour  them. 
Other than to consider an appropriate amount  for the distress and inconvenience  this has 
caused Mr S, which Ill discuss later, all I can reasonably consider in terms of financial loss, 
is if Aegons error materially changed  Mr S position.
In these circumstances its extremely difficult to say what wouldve happened  if the values 
had been correctly quoted  the whole way through the life of the plan. Mr S told Aegon that 
he hadnt made any concrete plans based on this information but that it caused him great 
shock  which is understandable.  But I also understand  Mr S point of view that he made  
decisions based on the belief that he had a lot more  in his pension  than he actually did.
Mr S stopped contributing into this plan in 2008  as he had a young family and his wife had 
given up work to look after their children. This decision was in part based on incorrect  figures 
and its difficult for me to say what he wouldve done had he had the correct information. 
Perhaps Mr S wouldnt have stopped contributing but by not contributing Mr S had extra 
money in his pocket  to use then. Mr S has told us since this hes suffered two redundancies 
and his main concern  has been  keeping up his mortgage repayments. So I think its unlikely 
Mr S wouldve  been  able to make  significantly  larger pension  contributions  to make up for 
any perceived gap in his retirement planning over this period.
So I dont  think I can draw  a conclusion that the error significantly altered Mr S position, it 
doesnt appear that if Mr S had the correct information that he wouldve made  considerably 
higher pension contributions. And he hasnt  committed to anything in retirement that he now 
cant afford,  so I think the main impact  of this error, is a significant loss of expectation.
This brings  me to the compensation for this loss of expectation. As Ive said I have real 
sympathy with Mr S situation and I think he was completely entitled to rely on the values  he 
was given. But I think the offer Aegon has made  is broadly in line with what  we wouldve 
suggested if no offer had been made. Whilst I recognise that the offer of £750  is insignificant 
when compared  to the perceived loss in retirement benefits, awards of this type are not in 
recognition of the loss incurred but for the upset caused. As its my view that this award is in 
line with what I wouldve recommended, I dont think any further compensation is due.
I know Mr S will be very disappointed with the outcome of this decision but for the reasons 
explained I dont  think there are any grounds to say Aegon should honour  the values it 
incorrectly quoted.  And in terms of compensation, Aegon has already made  an offer that isnt 
unreasonable when considering the awards  we would usually recommend in these types of 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN80679913So regrettably I have  to tell Mr S that I will not be upholding his complaint and I make  no 
further award. Aegon should pay Mr S the £750  its offered for the distress  and 
inconvenience its mistake  has caused,  if it hasnt already  paid this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I think the offer that Scottish Equitable  Plc has made is 
reasonable and it doesnt  have to do anything more  to put things right.
Scottish Equitable  Plc should pay the £750  it offered  Mr S if it hasnt already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8067991