K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs L says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs L took out on a store  card account in May 1996.  It 
was added to her account when  she applied for the card in store.
Mrs L says FICL mis-sold  the policy to her. She says she would not have opted for PPI due 
to her circumstances  at the time of sale.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
I think Mrs L was eligible to claim benefit  if needed  under  the terms of the policy.  One of the 
terms given was that a policy holder would need to be employed continuously for 6 months  
before they could  claim benefit and this could have been something that affected Mrs L. But I 
agree with our adjudicator that although Mrs L had only been  employed for 5 months, this 
wouldnt have put her off from still taking  the policy as she could have claimed after the first 
month of being covered. There was nothing  to suggest she wouldnt have still been employed 
at this point. 
I think FICL  made Mrs L aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because FICL  has given  us a copy of the store  card application form 
from the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI. This separate section is 
ticked and Mrs L then signed the application form to say she consented to the information 
contained in it. So I think this reflected what she wanted. Had Mrs L not wanted  the PPI she 
could have completed the application  without the separate  box being ticked for PPI.
So, on balance,  I think Mrs L was aware  the policy was optional  and she agreed to take it 
out, knowing  it was something she could say no to.
This application was made by Mrs L completing  an application in a store.  So because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation  was made  by FICL.  So FICL didnt have to check  if the policy 
was suitable for her. But it still needed to make  sure it gave Mrs L enough information to 
make an informed choice  whether  the policy was right for her, taking into account her 
personal circumstances.
Ref: DRN87415602Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs L would have acted differently and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think  better  information  
wouldve led her to act differently.
Mrs L has told us she had sick pay cover  but wasnt sure how much this was. The policy 
would have paid out in addition to any provisions Mrs L would receive. So based on what I 
do know, I think the PPI could have been  useful to her in that her store  card payments would 
be met. It also would  have provided additional cover if Mrs L was unable to work.  I also 
couldnt see any significant or limiting  terms that would have affected Mrs Ls decision to 
take the policy out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mrs Ls decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ls comments,  but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8741560