K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with a foreign  money  transfer.
background
In February 2017  Mrs S was in the process  of trying to buy a property in Egypt.  She 
successfully sent the deposit payment of £5,000 to the seller and sent a further £20,000. Mrs 
S brought  her complaint on the basis that the seller  didnt  receive  the £20,000 but 
Nationwide didnt reimburse here.  Nationwide has now repaid the money but Mrs S says 
there has been a significant delay that has caused  her distress and inconvenience. Mrs S 
also says the property sale fell through and she lost her deposit and that Nationwide asked 
her for proof of the purchase that meant  she travelled to Egypt to obtain the documents  
needed.
Mrs S says the compensation paid by Nationwide isnt enough and doesnt take into account 
the 19 months she was waiting for her money. She also says the compensation was paid 
into a joint account  and not the account  she paid the money out of.
Nationwide accepts there was a delay  in contacting Mrs S and has paid £200 compensation. 
It has refunded the £20,000 and paid Mrs S the difference caused  by the exchange rate. 
Nationwide has explained what  took place  that the payment was held by the US Foreign 
Asset Control for further checks. And that was outside its control but explained that to Mrs S 
in April 2017. It says it tried to find out what was happening and in April 2017 offered to recall  
the money but Mrs S told it not to as she was concerned  about  the possible cost.
Mrs S had brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought  Nationwide  had dealt 
fairly with it. The investigator  thought what took place what outside of Nationwides control  
and that it was subject to various rules and regulations. He thought Mrs S had been  given 
the option of recalling the money  in April 2017  but had refused that offer.  The investigator 
accepted that Mrs S had been  waiting  a considerable amount of time for her money  and 
thought Nationwide could have done more to explain the delay but that the compensation 
fairly reflected that part of the complaint.
Mrs S doesnt accept that view and says she was told the transfer would take three  days and 
doesnt accept  there  was an offer to recall the money in April 2017 as she says Nationwide  
didnt know where  it was until 12 months later.  She also says she spoke to many Nationwide 
staff and had to repeat what took place  and says she went to Egypt at Nationwides  request 
to obtain evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mrs S will be disappointed  by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly she feels about what took place.
I have no doubt  this was an extremely difficult time for Mrs S in initially not knowing where 
her money was and then in finding out her property purchase had fallen through.  I accept 
Mrs S spent a considerable amount of time speaking to Nationwide about what  had 
Ref: DRN82038782happened and I have no doubt she was forced  to repeat details of the events to various 
Nationwide staff. So I understand  her frustration in these circumstances.
Banks and building societies are subject to rules and regulations  that are not set by them.  
Im satisfied that what took place here is that Mrs Ss payment was made subject to further 
checks and investigation  by the US Foreign Asset Control. I dont think Nationwide delayed  
the payment and that decision was completely outside of its control  as well as how long it 
took for that payment to be released. So I dont  think  Nationwide  is responsible for those 
extra checks  and so it follows that I dont think its acted unfairly here or made a mistake  and 
cant fairly be held responsible for Mrs Ss property purchase falling through.
I have looked  at Nationwides records and can see that there is a record of a conversation in 
April 2017 with Mrs S in which she was given the option of recalling the money. But that she 
declined that offer as she was concerned about the cost of doing  so. I appreciate  that Mrs S 
questions that but I think  it likely such a conversation did take place. I accept by that stage it 
would have been unlikely that the property sale could have gone through  in any event.
There is no question here that Nationwide could  have updated Mrs S and not relied on her to 
contact it. But I can see that Nationwide has fairly  apologised and paid what I think is a fair 
and reasonable level of £200 compensation for that part of the complaint. I appreciate  thats 
not Mrs Ss main part of her complaint. I also think Nationwide  has acted fairly by refunding  
the exchange rate loss in circumstances  where  I dont think Nationwide made a mistake.  I 
have explained  that I dont think it was at fault for the delay but I think  its decision to refund 
that loss fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate Mrs S says Nationwide asked her to travel to Egypt to obtain  evidence of the 
property purchase and so it should  pay her travel costs. I have not seen any evidence  that 
Nationwide made  that request and think it more  likely that it asked  for evidence of the 
property purchase that it thought Mrs S had. I would have expected Mrs S to have had such 
evidence without the need to travel to Egypt to get it and in those circumstances cant  fairly 
order Nationwide to pay her travel costs if she didnt  have that information in the United 
Kingdom.
Overall Im satisfied Nationwide has dealt fairly with this complaint. As I dont think it was 
responsible for what took place then I cant fairly conclude its actions led to the property 
purchase falling through.  In those circumstances  it follows that I cant  fairly  ask Nationwide to 
reimburse Mrs S for the deposit  she lost or do anything further  in this complaint. I accept Mrs 
S will remain disappointed  by my decision but I think that brings an end to what we can do in 
trying to sort out this complaint informally. I also dont think it matters  which  account  the 
compensation was paid into as I can see it appears  it was the same  account the deposit was 
paid out of and Mrs S hasnt told me that caused  any inconvenience or problems.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8203878