K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  failed to stop direct  debit 
payments leaving  her account  even though she had cancelled them.
background
Miss D cancelled several direct debits  but noticed that the payments were still being taken from her 
account. She called  NatWest to complain and they refunded the payments. But Miss D said that 
NatWest didnt credit her account straight away, meaning that she didnt have the funds available  
to her for a period  of time.  She says that, because of NatWests  delay in refunding her, she wasnt 
able to buy a phone  from a friend which she was planning to sell on for a profit. So she says she 
has lost out on the sale because of NatWests delay.
NatWest asked her to send them evidence of the phone purchase  and sale so that they could look 
into reimbursing her for her losses. She did this but NatWest said the information she provided  
wasnt enough to prove a financial loss. They also said that all the funds which were due to Miss D 
had been credited to her account by the date she planned to buy the phone.
Our adjudicator looked into everything and thought  NatWest had acted  fairly.  He thought that, even 
though they could have  explained more clearly  to Miss D at the outset that retailers can sometimes 
continue to take direct debits even though they have been cancelled  at the bank, they had put 
things right by refunding  those payments when Miss D complained.  They also placed a stop 
request on the account to prevent payments to those retailers being taken again. He thought  that 
was fair and that NatWest didnt need  to do any more.
Our adjudicator also found that the refunds had been credited to Miss Ds account in time for her to 
buy the phone. The issue seems to have been that they didnt show up on her account balance  
straight away. Our adjudicator found  that NatWest had already compensated Miss D for the trouble 
caused by this and that they didnt need  to do any more.
Miss D has accepted our adjudicators findings in all areas except the sale of the mobile  phone. 
She says she has written proof of a guaranteed  sale and so she doesnt  think its a fair outcome if 
she isnt compensated  for that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss D has accepted  the adjudicators view in all other respects, I wont go over those issues 
again in my decision. Instead, Ill just focus on the issue of the mobile phone sale.  Miss D has 
provided some emails and a receipt from a store  as evidence  of the planned  purchase  and onward 
sale of the phone. I have  summarised these  below.
On 15 July 2018, Miss D exchanged emails with a third party  (A) who told her about an iPhone  X 
that would  be available  for her to buy. She said she would ask around to see if there were any 
buyers.
On 18 July, Miss D emailed another person (K) and said the phone  was available.  She said she 
would sell it to K for £840. She asked which branch of the store to come  to for the receipt and K 
replied asking her to come to a particular branch. Miss D said she would be there  on 20 July 
Ref: DRN83068812around 1pm to book  testing and pick up the receipt. She said she would get the phone to K by the 
evening before he was due to fly abroad.
The receipt from the store is dated 20 July 2018 and timed just after 1pm. Ks name is on the 
receipt as the staff member. Its difficult to make  out but the figure £840  seems  to have been 
handwritten on it next to Iphone  X.
At 5.12pm on 20 July Miss D emailed A saying she would buy the phone. She said she had a 
buyer and could come and pay A that evening, no later than 6.15pm. A replied and asked her to 
come to his work address.
There isnt any more  information available about  the purchase/sale for me to consider. The emails 
show that, from 15 July, Miss D was considering buying an iPhone X to sell on. None of the 
information shows how much she was going to buy it for, only the price at which  she would be 
selling to K. But on 18 July, when she was in contact with K, her account  was more overdrawn than 
it was on 20 July when  she planned to buy the phone. This is because  the refunds from NatWest 
credited her account  on 20 July.
I think its reasonable to expect Miss D to have been aware of her account  balance on 18 July, 
when she was planning the purchase/sale of the phone. If the funds in the account on that date 
werent enough and the refunds from NatWest were going to make the difference between being  
able to buy the phone and not, I would have expected Miss D to have checked the position with 
NatWest before arranging  to meet  the buyer.
The emails  show that at 5.12pm on 20 July, Miss D was planning to pay for the phone within the 
next hour. I dont know what  happened  after that as I havent  seen  any more emails  between Miss 
D and A, to cancel the arrangement for example.
In any event, the statements show that the refunds were credited to Miss Ds account on 20 July 
2018. This was confirmed  to her in a later phone call. There does seem to have been  some  
confusion about  Miss D being made aware of the up-to-date balance. But NatWest have upheld  
that aspect of her complaint already and I dont  think  they need  to do any more  here.  Ultimately,  all 
the refunds which were  due to Miss D had been put in her account  by 20 July 2018. So if, when it 
came to the time of the planned purchase, she didnt have enough funds in the account I cant 
safely conclude that was NatWests fault.
I realise this will be disappointing  to Miss D, but I dont think  the information she has provided 
proves she has suffered  a financial loss in connection with the phone.  And, even if it did, the 
evidence doesnt  point to it being NatWests fault.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to ask them  to 
compensate her for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept  or reject my decision  before 28 February 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8306881