K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc didnt send  him an interest statement for the last tax year. 
He further complains that he received  poor service when he raised  a complaint regarding 
this interest statement. 
He would like compensation for the poor service he says that he received.  
background
In June 2018, Mr D requested  a statement of interest from TSB for his current account  to 
complete his tax returns. He says he was a sent a secure message containing interest 
earned but this wasnt for the specified period.
Mr D raised a complaint  with TSB regarding this. 
TSB sent letters to Mr D on 13 July 2018, 10 August 2018, 7 September  2018 and 5 October 
2018. These letters told Mr D that TSB were still looking into his complaint. The letters after 
and including  10 August 2018, also told Mr D of his right to take the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  
Mr D says he also received another letter on 30 November 2018. 
Because TSB had still not considered  the complaint, Mr D came  to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She found that TSB had done nothing wrong. 
TSBs file contained a statement dated 12 August 2018 that had been  sent to Mr D. On the 
same date, there was also a statement of interest  for the tax year 2017/2018  that had been 
sent to Mr D. So, she found that she couldnt  fault TSB.  
She also thought  that, although  TSB had been  unable to look into the complaint, on 10 
August 2018,  they had told Mr D that he could  come to us.
Mr D wasnt happy with this outcome so the complaint  has now come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr D wont be happy with my decision. I dont think  that TSB has done anything 
wrong. I will explain why. 
Mr D had requested a statement of interest  for the last tax year. I can see from TSBs file 
that they sent a statement  of interest  for the year 2017/2018  on 12 August  2018. This is the 
statement for the last tax year. Although  Mr D says that he didnt get this statement, I can 
see that TSB sent it. So, I cant hold them responsible for Mr D not getting it. 
I am glad that Mr D does  now have  the right statement of interest. 
Mr D feels that he received poor service from TSB regarding this complaint.  I can see that 
TSB did acknowledge his complaint. Also, they kept him regularly updated on what  was 
Ref: DRN81014392going on. So, even though they couldnt reach  a decision on the complaint  themselves, I 
think that the service  that they gave  to Mr D wasnt poor. I accept that the ideal situation 
wouldve been for them to deal with the complaint. But, I cant know  how many other 
complaints that they were dealing with and whether looking at all complaints within a 
specified period  was possible. 
TSB also pointed out that Mr D could come to us if he wanted the complaint considered.  In 
all the circumstances,  as they werent  able to look at the complaint,  I dont  see how much  
more helpful they couldve been.  I dont think that the service was poor. 
I think that TSB has behaved  fairly  and reasonably. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  TSB to do anything else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8101439