K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Legacy  Wills  & Estate Planning Limited (Legacy) mis-sold a number of 
services to him, for which it also arranged finance.
background
In July 2017 Mr K made an enquiry to Legacy  about purchasing a will, using its will writing 
service. A consultation was then arranged with Legacy. This took place  in August 2017.
During the consultation, Legacy says, in addition to the will writing service (costing £39.99)  
Mr K also purchased services related to drafting  a lasting power of attorney relating to 
property and financial affairs (costing £258), a lasting power of attorney  relating to health 
and welfare (costing  £258) and aftercare  services in relation to these documents (costing  
£200).
To help pay for these  services Legacy arranged finance with another  business for Mr K. The 
finance was for £666 on an interest free basis, repayable  over 12 months through eleven  
monthly instalments  of £27.75 followed by a final payment of £360.75.  The terms of the 
agreement indicated however that, if Mr K couldnt  make the final larger balloon payment, 
the agreement  would  be extended  and he could continue to make  payments at the rate of 
£27.75 per month, until the balance was repaid   again on an interest free basis.
In April 2018 Mr K contacted the business providing  the finance to say he wished to cancel 
his agreement. The finance provider  said that he was outside of the cancellation period and 
referred Mr K to Legacy.
Several months later Mr K contacted  Legacy.  Its notes indicate  he initially said he wanted to 
cancel the agreement as he could no longer afford it. Legacy said that the services  hed paid 
for had been provided and he was outside  of the cancellation  period.
Mr K then complained to Legacy. He said hed been bullied and pressured into purchasing  
the power of attorney and aftercare services it had sold to him, which  he felt he didnt need. 
He said he was also pressured into taking finance to pay for these.
Legacy didnt  think it had done anything  wrong. It said Mr K had approached it about the 
services and had made an informed  decision  about  what he was purchasing.
Mr K then asked our service  to look into the complaint.  After  considering  what  had happened 
our investigator said he didnt think, based  on what hed seen, that the complaint should 
succeed. Mr K did not agree with the investigators  opinion and asked for the matter to be 
reviewed.
Since that time, Legacy  has said in order to resolve matters, as a goodwill gesture, it will 
refund the £755.99 Mr K paid for services. It said that before processing this Mr K would 
need to return  the documents  it produced for him so that these could be disposed of.
We put that offer to Mr K, but he has not responded. So, given that an agreement  has not 
been reached, and Mr K previously indicated  hed like an ombudsman  to review his 
complaint, it has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN83650542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K says he was bullied and pressured  into taking  out services  and arranging finance for 
this by Legacy, when he discussed  his requirements  with it.
There are no recordings  of the conversations Mr K had with Legacy available  for me to 
review. So, I cant know for certain what was said during the discussion. We asked Mr K for 
some additional  details around  what  exactly was said that made him feel pressured.  Mr K 
said Legacy were  persistent in saying that the products could be useful to him and that he 
could take out finance  to purchase them,  but beyond this he hasnt provided much additional 
detail.
I dont doubt that Legacy  talked about  the benefits  of the products it sold to him. And I also 
dont doubt what  Mr K has said that when he raised  the issue of cost and being able to afford  
them, it talked about the option  of finance.  I think sales and objection  handling  practices 
similar to this are used  quite regularly in a variety  of industries. But Im not sure this would be 
enough for me to be able to say that Mr K was bullied into taking the finance or not aware 
that he had a choice about  it or the services he purchased.
Im also conscious that Legacys system  notes  indicate that Mr K made an enquiry to it about 
a will. And Mr K has indicated as much in his correspondence to our service.  So, it was Mr K 
that initiated the enquiry  as he seems to have been  interested in some  of the services 
Legacy provided.
I also note it was a number of months after agreeing to the services  and finance, in which 
time it appears all payments were made as scheduled, that Mr K first asked to cancel. And 
the information available suggests  this was initially because he felt he could no longer afford 
the payments  and only later were the issues Mr K has raised about feeling  pressured 
mentioned  which I think might suggest  initially he was not unhappy with the services or 
finance arranged.
In any event however,  Legacy has now said, as a gesture  of goodwill, if the documents it 
produced (the services provided  by it) for Mr K are returned to it in order  to be disposed of, it 
will refund the full cost of the services (£755.99)
Legacy has provided our service evidence of the documents  it generated and system  notes 
indicating these were  sent out. I think this indicates that it carried out the services that were 
originally agreed.  And as Ive said Ive also seen details of the finance that was arranged,  
specifically that this was on an interest free basis. And having reviewed a summary  of the 
payments made by Mr K, it doesnt appear  any further charges or amounts were added  to 
the balance originally arranged.
With that in mind the offer now made  by Legacy  would appear  to put Mr K back in the 
position he wouldve  been in if the finance  had not been arranged  and the services  provided 
by Legacy not taken  out. So, in the circumstances, I think that offer is a fair and reasonable 
way to resolve matters,  and indeed is in line with what I wouldve recommended in the event 
that I felt Legacy  had made an error in the sale of the finance.
Ref: DRN83650543my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I think the offer made by Legacy Wills & Estate Planning  
Limited is a fair way to resolve  this complaint.
To put things right, when  the documents it originally provided to Mr K are returned to be 
disposed of, Legacy Wills  & Estate Planning Limited should pay him £755.99.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8365054