K821x#15copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mrs M complains about  two fixed sum loan agreements that she took out with Virgin  Media Mobile  
Finance Limited (VMMF).  She says the terms were  misrepresented  and VMMF Finance  treated  her 
unfairly.
background
In September 2016 Mrs M purchased  two model 6 phones from a supplier  (that I will refer to as VM) 
with two fixed  sum loans from VMMF. These phones cost just over £400 each and the loans were 
each repayable over two years at around £18 a month. Mrs M used one of the phones herself  and her 
son used the other handset. 
Both phones  developed  faults  in 2017. Mrs M says these were  known issues with this particular 
phone so she got in touch with VM. She had several lengthy calls with VM in December  2017 but her 
concerns werent resolved. 
Mrs M spoke to a manager on 9 January 2018. They discussed an early  upgrade for both phones. 
Mrs M said she was interested in the next model  up - a 7 - made by the same manufacturer  but she 
didnt want to pay much  more or take longer to repay any new loans.  
Mrs M spoke to VM again the next day. She says it agreed to provide two model 7 handsets at a cost 
of £32 each a month (which included some  discount)  repayable over two years.  But VM only told Mrs 
M the model  7 handsets were out of stock until 19 January 2018 near the end of the call - which  took 
over an hour. 
Mrs M was unhappy about this delay. She and her son couldnt  do without mobile  phones  for such  a 
long time as her son was about to go abroad. So VM offered to provide two model 8 handsets instead 
temporarily. Mrs M says she accepted this but stressed she didnt want  the model 8 handsets on a 
permanent basis. 
Mrs M signed two new loan agreements  for the model 8s on 10 January 2018.  These phones  cost 
£900 each and the loans  were repayable  over 36 months at around £25 a month. Mrs M says she 
only agreed to do this because VM promised  to contact her within  the two week cooling off period, 
take back  both model 8 phones and replace them with model 7s on the terms agreed earlier.  
Mrs M didnt hear from VM as expected so she phoned on 26 January  and 3 February. She says 
these calls took nearly three hours  in total.  She was told the deal she had been offered originally  for 
the model 7 phones was no longer available.  She felt that was most  unfair and she had no choice but 
to keep the model 8s while she tried to sort things out with VM. Unfortunately the screens  on both 
handsets were damaged  during this time. VM subsequently refused to take the model  8s back. And 
Mrs M says shes now been  left with two handsets she never  wanted and longer more  expensive 
loans.  
VMMF says VM has no record that model 8 handsets were offered on a temporary basis. It accepts 
this may have been agreed - as this is an option thats  offered from time to time - but this is 
dependent on phones  being  returned in good condition. VMMF thinks  its unreasonable have to take 
back these model 8 handsets as they have been damaged. It told Mrs M it cant cancel the loans. And 
VM offered to provide  six months free service tariff for both handsets and a £2 lifetime  discount or a 
refund of £25 towards any insurance  excess Mrs M has to pay to get the handsets fixed - as a 
goodwill gesture. 
Mrs M doesnt think thats fair. She says the model  8s wouldnt  have been damaged if VM had 
supplied the model 7 handsets she wanted within  the time agreed.  She accepts responsibility for the 
damage and she has offered  to have that fixed and return the phones to VM provided  the loans are 
cancelled.  
Ref: DRN84528582Our investigator asked  for recordings of the calls between Mrs M and VM. Theyre no longer available 
so she checked VFs customer notes instead - to try and establish  what  was agreed at the time. She 
thinks VM probably told Mrs M she could return  the model 8s within  a few weeks when the model  7 
handsets became available. 
She accepts Mrs M signed  new loan agreements for the model 8s but doesnt think it is fair that Mrs M 
should be bound by those,  in this situation. She recommends VMMF  should  either 
allow  Mrs M to keep the model 8s on a 24 month contract at the same price she is currently 
paying for the 36 month contract (and its up to Mrs M to get the handsets repaired) or
allow  Mrs M to return  the model  8s, cancel both loans  and pay Mrs M £50 for inconvenience. 
VMMF says the loan documents  were  e-mailed  to Mrs M and the handsets wouldnt have been 
released until she agreed to the terms by clicking a link attached  - so its unfair to suggest she was 
unaware of what she was signing  up to. It considers the model 8 phones  were  offered in good faith,  
Mrs M was under no pressure to accept and its reasonable to expect the handsets  to be returned 
within a reasonable standard. VMMF feels  the goodwill  offer from VM is fair overall and it shouldnt  
have to do more. It asked  for an ombudsman  to review the matter.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider circumstances.  
VMMF and VM are two different companies but part of the same group  and I suspect, as far as Mrs M 
was concerned, she has been dealing  with the same organisation throughout.  So, whilst I realise this 
is a fairly  technical point,  I think it is important to be clear about what I am looking  at in this decision. I 
am considering the complaint Mrs M made about two loans VMMF  provided to enable her to buy two 
mobile phones. She has taken out several such loans from VMMF  over a number of years. But, the 
loans I am considering here are the two agreements  dated 10 January  2018 to buy model 8 phones.
VM arranged these loans  and supplied both handsets along  with the related  mobile service.  
I am satisfied  that I can consider what was said between VM and Mrs M before she agreed to take the 
loans out in this complaint about VMMF under section 56 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 (CCA). I 
have also taken  section 75 of the CCA  into account.  This says a lender like VMMF is liable  for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  made by a supplier like VM, in certain circumstances.    
Mrs M accepts she signed  these two loan agreements. Usually, that would  mean she is taken to have 
accepted the loan terms. But, the crux of Mrs Ms complaint here is that she only accepted the phones 
- and agreed to take out the loans to pay for them - because  of things VM said that turned out to be 
untrue. Mrs M says VM told her model 7 handsets would  be available within two weeks.  And she 
would be able to return the model 8s, cancel the related  loans and take out new loans for the model  7 
phones on terms agreed previously.  
Its unfortunate that recordings of the relevant phone calls between  Mrs M and VM are no longer 
available. Like our investigator,  I have considered VMs customer contact notes from September  2016 
until October 2018 - to see if they shed any light on what was agreed. 
The note of a 75 minute call on 10 January 2018 (the day Mrs M signed the loan agreements) isnt 
very detailed  - it says 
Ref: DRN84528583cust wants to upgrade into [model 7] educ cust that delivery of handset will be on 19 January cust 
needs handset already  and instead get [model 8]
 
This doesnt seem to contradict what Mrs M says happened during the call. I think it is reasonable  to 
take account of the fact that VM says it does sometimes enter  into the sort of temporary arrangement 
Mrs M describes. And, on balance overall, I am minded  to find Mrs Ms version of what  was agreed 
seems credible - in that its consistent with events and paperwork  I have seen.  
I can see that VM wrote to Mrs M in May 2018 to say  
after a full investigation we have come to the findings that you have upgraded  two of your 
handsets. Originally you wanted two [of one particular  model]. When  you spoke to our agents you 
were advised  that we can get those so you can proceed with ordering.  Upon proceeding with the 
order you were told that we did not actually  have these  in stock but we would be able to supply two 
higher specification  phones. You were happy with that but only if we could swop them  for [the models 
you wanted]  as per the agreement made with one of our agents. After  being assured that we can do 
that with no problem at all you agreed to have them  
Taking everything Ive seen so far into account, I am inclined to find it is more  likely  than not VM told 
Mrs M she could have  the two model 8 phones temporarily. I think  she probably wouldnt have agreed 
to take out two loans for the model 8 phones on the 10 January if VM had not said 
the model 7s she wanted would be available within a few weeks;
she could return the model 8 handsets then and cancel the related loans;  and
she could take out two new loans  for the model 7 phones on the terms previously agreed. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs M to rely on what VM told her, in these  specific 
circumstances.
It appears the handsets Mrs M wanted didnt become  available within  the timeframe VM expected. I 
appreciate that may have been outside of VMs control - but thats not Mrs Ms fault. Ultimately, VM 
failed to supply the model 7 phones within  the time it proposed to Mrs M when  she took out the loans. 
As far as I can see Mrs M did what Id expect her to do in this situation.  She contacted VM fairly 
regularly over the next month  or so chasing the phones and deals she was originally offered. She 
seems to have been told that was no longer available.  And, whilst I realise  VM may have thought Mrs 
M might  change her mind  and decide  to keep the model 8s after shed had them for a while, Im 
satisfied Mrs M made it clear  she didnt  want to do that. 
I dont think Mrs M should  be obliged  to keep  the two model 8 phones and repay  larger loans  over 
longer terms than expected, in these circumstances.  I think it is fair for her to be put back  into the 
position she would have been in if VM had not made misrepresentations before she took out the loans 
- insofar as thats reasonably possible. 
So, I am inclined to find Mrs M should  be allowed  to return both phones and VMMF  should cancel the 
loan agreements. I consider  VMMF should also arrange for the airtime plans linked to these loans to 
be cancelled - in light of everything thats happened (I think thats probably what would have 
happened last January  if the model  8s hadnt been damaged in the meantime). 
I appreciate the problem now is VM doesnt feel it shouldnt have to honour the deal it made to take 
the phones back as theyre  broken. Mrs M says shes happy to have both phones repaired under  
insurance that I understand VM arranged when the phones were supplied.  I dont think that sounds  
unreasonable in this situation. I presume VM has some  degree of confidence  in the insurance  product 
- or it wouldnt be offered  to customers. And, once the phones have been fixed,  VM will essentially get 
back two used  phones in good working  order - which  seems broadly in line with what the parties  
anticipated when the phones were supplied. 
Ref: DRN84528584It looks as if Mrs M and her son have had reasonable use of the model 8 phones. So, Im inclined to 
find VMMF  should retain any payments  that Mrs M has made towards  the loans up to the point theyre 
repaired and returned.  I consider Mrs M probably  experienced some upset and inconvenience as a 
result of the misrepresentations  VM made. And I am minded to require  VMMF should pay her £200 
compensation to reflect that. 
I have set out above  what I think amounts to a fair and reasonable outcome in this situation - based 
on the evidence I have seen.  I invite both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have 
any further comments or submissions by the date below. After  that I will reconsider  all of the evidence 
and make my final decision.  It will then be a matter for Mrs M to decide  if she wants to accept that and 
take the steps  I have suggested.    
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further comments or evidence I receive from Mrs M or VMMF 28 May 2019,  my 
provisional decision  is I intend  to uphold this complaint  and order Virgin Media  Mobile Finance  Limited  
to 
1.cancel both fixed  sum loan agreements  dated  10 January  2018 at no cost to Mrs M 
provided Mrs M first arranges for the two related model 8 handsets to be repaired  to a 
reasonable standard  and returns those  to VM in good  working order;   
2.arrange for any linked airtime/mobile service agreements to be terminated at the same 
time as the loans,  at no further  cost to Mrs M;
3.remove any information  recorded  about  the loans from Mrs Ms credit file; and    
4.pay Mrs M £200 for the upset and inconvenience she has experienced.  
Ref: DRN8452858