K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) arent able to tell him whats  happened  
to the money  he held in a savings account, after he recently found the account passbook. 
background
Mr W found a passbook  while moving  house which he says showed he had £1,198.46 in the 
account in 2000. 
Santander said there has been £8 to £9 in the account since 2002, which is as far back as 
their records  go, and that the current balance was £9.32. Mr W asked for evidence to show 
the withdrawals, but Santander werent able to provide it due to the amount of time that had 
passed. 
Mr W was unhappy with this. He said he wouldve needed to present the passbook in order  
to withdraw any money, and there  were  no withdrawals  printed inside it. He also had a 
document showing that £1,170 cash was paid into the account on 26 April 2000.
The investigator didnt  think Santander had done anything  wrong  and the evidence 
suggested the balance Santander  had quoted was correct.  Mr W didnt agree and so the 
complaint was passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, while  I understand Mr Ws arguments,  I agree  with the investigator  and am unable to 
ask Santander  to do anything further here.  Ill explain why. 
When investigating the case, we asked Santander to send us any information they had 
relating to Mr Ws account. They provided  some detail about the activity on Mr Ws account 
but their records only went back as far as 2002.   Financial businesses  aren't  required  to 
keep records indefinitely.  And, given the time thats passed in this case, it doesnt surprise 
me that Santander  cant show  exactly what  happened to the money Mr W once held in this 
accoun
What Santander  has shown is that by 2002 the balance of the account was around £8 and 
interest has accrued  since then bringing the total to just over £9. I cant know  exactly what 
happened in the intervening years but the banks  records suggest  that most of the money 
was taken out of the account  at some point between 2000  and 2002.  And I dont think I can 
safely conclude that the most likely thing that happened is, as Mr W suggests,  that someone 
at the bank stole his money.
Mr W says he wouldve  needed the passbook to withdraw any money.  But, in my experience 
if a customer can prove  their identity, banks  will usually allow  withdrawals without the 
passbook, even if the book says it must be shown for each transaction.  This enables 
genuine customers who have lost their passbook to still access  their money.
Mr W says he found  the passbook when he was moving house.  And its not clear to me, if 
he thought he had over £1,100 in the account, why he hadnt checked in with the bank 
before now  for example  to see what interest  had been earned  on those savings.  
Ref: DRN80486162In relation to the document Mr W provided  showing the account  was last accessed  in 2000, 
Santander have  confirmed they didnt  provide  this document. And in any event, the account  
must have  been  accessed after this point as the money is no longer there.  
I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities, weighing  up all the evidence in 
order to decide  what is most likely to have happened.   In this case I think  its more likely than 
not Mr W withdrew most of his money  at some point between 2000  and 2002  for reasons 
which he, understandably, doesnt now recall due to the passage of time.
Overall I cant  conclude  that Santander has done  anything wrong so I cant fairly tell it to pay 
Mr W the amount of money stated in the passbook, with interest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8048616