K822xcomplaint
Miss H complains the vehicle she acquired on finance supplied by Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) was not of satisfactory quality. She wants  to reject the vehicle, 
end the agreement and receive  compensation.
background 
Miss H tells us she acquired  the vehicle as new in September 2018. But she said that shortly  
afterwards the speedometer  on the instrument panel went blank. Miss H said she returned 
the vehicle to the dealer  for repairs. But whilst the vehicle was being  looked at she was only 
given a replacement  of lower specification than her own vehicle.  In January 2019, Miss H 
reports a similar incident occurred whilst she was driving and the speedometer once again 
went blank. Miss H says she was made an offer of compensation  by MBFS - of £250 - but 
feels this is insufficient.  She says it took the best part of a month  to repair  and she wants  to 
reject the vehicle.
MBFS told us Miss H had reported a fault with the instrument cluster in September 2018. But 
as the dealer was unable to replicate the fault a software update had been  applied. It said 
Miss H had returned, in January 2019,  and this time the fault had been  replicated and the 
control unit was replaced and a programming disc installed. It said Miss H had been kept 
mobile whilst  repairs  were  carried  out. But it offered £250 to Miss H as a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator said he thought the offer of £250  was fair. He referred to the Consumer 
Rights Act of 2015 (CRA).  He said he didnt classify the first occasion  as an attempt to repair  
as the dealer didnt replicate the issue and only carried  out the software update  as a 
precaution. But as the second visit had identified a fault - which  required the control unit to 
be replaced - he said MBFS was allowed one attempt to repair the fault. As Miss H had 
confirmed there had been no repetition  of the problem he thought repairs  had been 
successful. 
MBFS hasnt commented  upon the adjudicators  view. Miss H said she didnt agree with the 
outcome and that she wanted an ombudsman to make a final review. As its not been 
possible to resolve  this complaint  its been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Miss H has experienced problems with this new vehicle. And I accept that a 
speedometer and /or control panel going blank whilst the car is being driven is likely to be 
both a safety concern and an unpleasant shock.  
 Miss Hs hire purchase agreement is a regulated  consumer credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. MBFS supplied  the vehicle and its 
therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. And as this was a new 
vehicle it should  have been  free from even minor defects.
In dealing with a complaint I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. And 
the CRA  2015  is relevant  legislation.
Ref: DRN84398332Miss H took the vehicle  back  to the dealer within a few days  of it being supplied  and reported 
a fault with the speedometer and instrument panel going blank. This fault - if fault there  was - 
could not be replicated by the dealer and a software  update was applied. I infer this seemed 
to have resolved  whatever issue there might have been as theres no further  faults reported 
until 20 January 2019.
On that occasion  a fault was identified and a replacement unit was eventually fitted. There  
seems to have been an unfortunate  delay  as the part needed to be ordered and it took the 
best part of a month for the repair to be completed. In this time Miss H indicated  her wish to 
reject the vehicle but MBFS  declined to accept this.
Under the CRA its presumed that any fault arising  within six months of supply is present at 
the point of supply - unless its established  otherwise.  And if the fault results in the vehicle 
not being of satisfactory quality the customer - within certain  time limits - may have the right 
to reject the item or have  it repaired. 
Theres no doubt Miss H reported  a fault in September 2018  - but the repairing dealer 
couldnt replicate  this. So as a precaution a software  update  was applied. Software updates 
are not normally considered to be repairs - as they are usually applied to provide a vehicle 
with the most recent upgrade of capability - not to correct faults.  
In January a fault was identified and whilst  Miss H asked to reject  the vehicle  she also 
seems to have given consent  for repairs to be done.  Ive seen a job sheet which  appears to 
bear Miss Hs signature after the following statement:
I agree to the above work being  undertaken.
Signature of Customer (or Agent):
And where  consent  to a repair is given, its only if the repair fails that the right to reject can 
be exercised. Miss H has confirmed that there have been no further faults  since this repair 
was carried out.
 
In these circumstances I do not consider that it is fair and reasonable to recommend that 
Miss H be allowed to reject the vehicle.  The situation in September was ambiguous.  And 
whilst I dont doubt what Miss H said, in the absence of an independent  inspection  report 
about the vehicle I cant say if this was due to an inherent  fault or possibly a temporary  
malfunction caused by some unknown factor. And when the January  fault was identified it 
was successfully repaired.
But where I do agree with Miss H is in thinking  the level of compensation offered is 
insufficient. This was a new vehicle and so I wouldnt expect it to be off the road twice  within  
the first few months - particularly for repairs. And that the repair took around  four weeks - as 
a part had to be obtained - is not satisfactory. A customer is entitled to think  that when they 
acquire a new vehicle they ought to have a reasonable period  of reliability.
Whilst Miss H was provided with a courtesy vehicle I understand this was of a lesser  
specification. And whilst this reduces the level of inconvenience it was not what Miss H was 
paying for.
Ref: DRN84398333I think it would be fair to say that not only has she had the inconvenience  of having her new 
vehicle malfunction  and be off the road for several weeks  she experienced impaired use and 
enjoyment. In those  circumstances  I think the overall  level of compensation should  be £500.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay Miss H a total of £500  
compensation. This covers impaired use and enjoyment and the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the breakdown of this new vehicle. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8439833