K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDF) didnt compensate  him 
properly for failing to deliver goods  at the agreed  time
Background
Mr G ordered goods from SDF which were due to be delivered on a specific day. He called  
SDF on the preceding  day as he hadnt  received confirmation of delivery. He was told it was 
being delivered direct by the third party supplier. He called again the following day and was 
told that the supplier  would  be in contact an hour before delivery time.
He was later told that it was out of stock  and it would be delivered  by the weekend. He 
complained and SDF initially offered him £20 compensation. It later increased  this to £35 
and removed the delivery charge. Mr G didnt think this reasonable as he had taken a day off 
work and had lost income as a result.
He brought his complaint  to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted  SDFs  terms and conditions  which  stated: 
Whilst we make every effort to deliver  goods on the day we specify, we cannot guarantee 
delivery on that day or accept liability for deliveries  made outside this timescale. This also
applies to products sent direct from our manufacturers.  We cannot  accept  liability for out of 
pocket expenses or other costs incurred due to failed  or delayed deliveries.
She accepted that Mr G had been given  an expectation of delivery and thought he could 
rely on their assurances provided via web chat. She said it was unfortunate the business  
was unable to honour the date they provided, but she didnt think it was their intention  to 
mislead him.
She noted SDF agreed the level of customer service  provided was not sufficient and had 
offered compensation which our investigator thought  was fair. She said that issues  Mr G had 
about SDFs complaint  handling was outside this services  remit. Mr G didnt agree and said 
he had been told the goods were on their way and only late in the day did SDF inform him of 
the delay. He also reiterated his complaint  about  handling of his complaint by SDF.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate the frustration of the goods not being delivered on the expected  date, but I 
dont consider I can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
SDF didnt supply the goods an acted  as an intermediary in the delivery process.  It was 
reliant on information from the third party and it seems SDF had been given a delivery  date 
which it passed on to Mr G. Regrettably  that proved  to be wrong. 
As our investigator has pointed out SDF doesnt  accept  responsibility for delays in delivery 
and has set that out in its terms and conditions. As such  I cannot say that it should 
compensate Mr G for his time off work or any associated  costs. 
Ref: DRN87840342Mr G has suggested that SDF should have told him ahead of time that the delivery would be 
delayed, but having read the evidence I dont  believe it was aware  of any potential  delays  
and so it wasnt in a position to advise him of the revised date. 
I note Mr G has complained about SDFs complaints process and how it handled the matter. 
I regret the complaints  handling is not a regulated  activity and I cannot consider this element 
of his complaint.
 
SDF has offered Mr G £35 and written off the delivery charge which I consider to be fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited has already  made an offer to pay £35 and write off 
the delivery charge to settle  the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.  So my decision  is that Shop Direct  Finance  Company Limited should pay 
£35 and write off the delivery charge.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8784034