K820x#14complaint
Mr B and his representative complain  that Admiral Financial Services Ltd irresponsibly 
loaned him money  and theyre also unhappy that its said it will apply for a charge over his 
property even though hes now in a debt management plan.
background
In May 2018  Mr B applied to Admiral  for a £20,000 personal loan. After  completing some 
checks this loan was approved. Mr B has recently entered  into a debt management plan with 
help from a debt management charity.  
Mr Bs representative says this loan shouldnt have been given as Mr B had a gambling 
problem, had just been approved for a new mortgage and had significant other unsecured 
debts. She says Admirals  checks werent  sufficient. It shouldve  asked for copies of his bank 
statements which wouldve shown hed a gambling problem and it wouldve declined the 
loan. She also thinks its unfair  of Admiral to seek to place a charge over Mr Bs property 
given hes set up a debt management  plan.  
Admiral said in its final response that its lending wasnt irresponsible. It completed 
appropriate and relevant  checks. Its accepted the offered repayments. Its also entitled to 
get a charging  order to secure its financial interest  alongside the repayment plan and if Mr B 
agrees the legal costs will be reduced. It doesnt intend to enforce the charge while  the 
agreed repayments are maintained. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary he said:
Mr B applied  for the loan online.  In his application he said he was a home owner, had 
an annual salary  of £100,000  and wanted the loan for home  improvements.  He had a 
responsibility to provide  true and accurate information and it was reasonable for 
Admiral to rely on what it was told. 
Admiral completed an affordability  check. This showed  the declared income was 
correct when checked against Mr Bs recent  bank statement activity.  A credit check  
also showed a mortgage, one live loan and three  credit cards  which  were all up to 
date. Mr Bs credit  file, submitted by his representative, shows similar information  
although some quotation searches, general identification checks and one enquiry 
search on it wouldnt have been  visible to a lender. Admiral didnt pick up on the new 
mortgage, three new loans and some  searches. But this isnt its fault as it can take a 
couple of months for this information to be recorded  and they all occurred within  a 
month of the application for the Admiral loan.  There also wasnt  any other adverse  
information or CCJs recorded  against Mr B.
There wasnt anything to suggest Admiral shouldve been concerned and asked  more  
questions. It also wasnt required  to obtain  Mr Bs bank statements. 
The loan agreement  says additional charges, fees and interest  may arise if the 
monthly payments  arent made. And Admiral  may take legal action including getting  a 
charging order against Mr Bs home. 
In this case Admiral has accepted the debt management plan and stopped interest  
and charges being applied to the loan.  It hasnt forced or pressured  him to pay more 
Ref: DRN87932862than he can afford. This is reasonable and shows its acted positively and 
sympathetically. Its also entitled to obtain  a charging order over Mr Bs home. Its 
also said if Mr B agrees to this voluntarily the legal costs  will be reduced.
Admiral hasnt acted unreasonably and he cant recommend it does anything  more. 
Mr Bs representative remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review.  She says 
Admirals insistence  on getting a charge over Mr Bs property suggests it will force  a sale of 
the house. This gives it a very unfair  and prejudicial advantage over other  creditors.  And if 
theres a forced sale other creditors will not get paid which will likely result in Mr Bs 
bankruptcy. Admiral  isnt acting fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending to Mr B, Admiral had to make sure the loan was affordable.  There  arent set 
checks it had to carry out. But its checks shouldve been proportionate to things like  but not 
limited to  the size of the loan, the repayments and what  it knew  about him.
Admiral says it asked about Mr Bs income  and gathered data from two credit reference  
agencies. It says these  reports were as current as possible  at the time of Mr Bs application.
Even so its possible some  information  hadnt yet reached them  despite subsequently  
showing up on the credit  report  Mr Bs representative has sent to us. 
Admiral was entitled to rely on the information Mr B gave including  his declared salary which 
in any event was confirmed by its checks of his bank account activity. There  was nothing to 
suggest Mr B had given  incomplete information  or to alert Admiral  to his gambling  problem.  
And I dont  think there was anything to concern it or to suggest it shouldve carried out 
further checks or, for example, to have asked to see his actual bank statements.
I agree  with the investigator that Admirals checks went  far enough  and the loan appeared 
affordable on the information it had.
Once Admiral became  aware of Mr Bs financial difficulties I think  its acted positively and 
sympathetically. It stopped interest  and charges on the loan and has agreed to accept the 
repayments from the debt management  plan. 
Mr Bs representative says Admiral is acting  unfairly by seeking  to obtain a charging order  
over Mr Bs family home. But this is allowed under the terms of the loan agreement and it 
says its doing  so to secure its financial interest alongside the repayment  plan.  And by asking  
him to agree  to this its also trying  to help keep the legal costs down. That seems 
reasonable.
Mr Bs representative also fears that if there is a forced sale of the home  she and their 
children will suffer and other  creditors may bankrupt Mr B. I understand and sympathise with 
her concerns. But Admiral  has clearly  said it doesnt intend to enforce the notice while the 
repayments are maintained into the debt management plan. And if Admiral were to 
subsequently apply for an order  of sale of the home  the matter would be considered by the 
Ref: DRN87932863Court which would no doubt also take account of the effect this would have on the rest of the 
family members living there.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Admirals lending  was irresponsible as Mr Bs 
representative suggests. I also dont think its acted wrongly or inappropriately since  it 
became aware  of Mr Bs financial difficulties and circumstances. 
Consequently although I sympathise with the problems Mr B, and his representative and 
family, are experiencing I dont think I can fairly or reasonably  require Admiral  to do anything  
more or differently.
I would however remind Admiral of its ongoing obligation to treat Mr B appropriately given 
his gambling problems and positively and sympathetically while he remains in financial 
difficulty.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8793286