K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained that Mortgages Plc treated him badly during the possession of his property. 
He said he hadnt  been allowed access to the property to collect  his belongings. He also said 
that some  of his belongings  had been stolen by Mortgages Plcs  agents.
background
Mortgages Plc obtained a Suspended Possession Order  on Mr Ss property in February 
2016, after some  years of arrears. Mr S wasnt able to maintain the terms of the order,  and 
his arrears increased. By early 2018,  his arrears stood at more than 60 monthly payments, 
and the property was possessed on 14 February 2018. 
Mortgages Plc appointed agents to act for them in clearing  the property. There  were a lot of 
items in the house and garden. Whenever Mr S visited the property, house sitters had to 
be arranged, with the cost of this charged  to his mortgage account.
Mr S went  to the agents office on 17 February, but the person he needed to speak to was ill 
and he was asked  to return on 19 February.  He did, and an appointment was made to visit 
the property on 22 February. This took place.
Mr S asked for additional  visits  and one was arranged for 27 February. Mr S and his solicitor 
arrived for the 10am appointment. It was snowing and Mr S and his solicitor  had to wait in 
the cold, but no-one from the agent arrived.
There were further emails and on 7 March the agent gave Mr S 14 days  to clear his 
belongings. Mr S appealed the possession through  the courts.  There was a disagreement 
about the status of this. Mortgages  Plc said it was told the appeal had been  struck out 
because Mr S hadnt paid the court fee, and on 11 April it gave Mr S another 7 days to clear 
his belongings. But Mr S said the appeal was going ahead. 
It was a further eight  months before there  was a decision  about Mr Ss court  appeal.  The 
courts decision in October 2018  was that it didnt  allow Mr S to appeal  and there  was to be 
no further court hearing.
On 1 November  2018, the agent emailed Mr S:
We have been  instructed  by the mortgage  lender to request quotes in order  to clear the 
property, they have however asked whether you would like to remove any of your belongings 
before we do so. Can I therefore please  ask that you make contact with me in order  to 
arrange collection of your belongings as a matter of urgency,  I have tried to call the mobile 
number we have  on file but it appears to be out of service.
The agents  emailed  Mr S again the next day, and said that if Mr S didnt reply within two 
weeks, theyd have  no option but to clear the property, so they could start marketing it.
Mr S replied  a month later, on 1 December, saying hed had a deterioration in his medical  
condition and would ring the following week. The agent emailed the following week and 
asked Mr S to get in touch urgently, as the contractors were due to start the following 
morning.
Ref: DRN86060422There were further emails and it was arranged that Mr S would attend the house with the 
agent on 11 December.  Mr S asked for more time to clear his belongings. Mortgages Plc 
agreed to two more  full days for Mr S to remove his remaining belongings. 
Mr S had health issues. The agent  acknowledged  this, and recognised  that Mr S would need 
time. The agent asked Mr S when he could attend, but said the visits would need to be 
before 11 January 2019 when the house would  be cleared, so the lender  could  being  
marketing the property. A date of 7 January was arranged and took place. The final date was 
agreed for 14 January.
Mr S complained to Mortgages Plc about  its actions regarding the possessed property. He 
asked for more time to clear the property. And he also claimed  that items had been stolen 
from the property by contractors.
In its final response,  Mortgages Plc said it wasnt prepared to allow  Mr S any more  time to 
remove his belongings. It pointed out that it had postponed clearing the property  from 
February to October  because of court applications, and since  then it had tried to make 
arrangements for him to have access. Hed had at least two full days access, and it would 
now make  arrangements to clear  the property. Mortgages Plc also said that if he wished to 
report any stolen items  to the police, it would be happy to co-operate  with the police.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator upheld  Mr Ss claim in part. He said the agents had been fair and 
reasonable regarding access to the property. And he said that this service couldnt look at 
the complaint  about allegedly stolen items. But he said that Mr S had received poor service  
when hed complained and when  the agent hadnt  attended the property on 27 February 
2018. He thought Mortgages Plc should pay Mr S £100 for the poor service.  
Mortgages Plc agreed. But Mr S didnt. He said he was unhappy about a lot of things and 
wanted an ombudsman  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its correct that this service cant consider Mr Ss complaint that agents of Mortgages  
Plc stole some of his belongings  from the property. He would need to raise  this with the 
police.
I have looked  in detail and the chronology of events, and all the emails, from February 2018 
when the property was possessed. Ive set out the key points from these above.
A lender which has been awarded possession  through  the court process has the right to 
vacant possession  meaning a property with all belongings  removed. The borrower  is 
responsible for removing  their belongings, but wont have the right to re-enter  the property 
once theyve been evicted.  
The terms and conditions  applying  to Mr Ss mortgage also set out in section 10.4 that:
Ref: DRN86060423If upon entry by the company into possession of the property, it shall contain  any furniture 
or chattels  which  the borrower does not remove within fourteen  days, then and in every such 
case the company  shall have  full authority, at the borrowers expense and risk, to remove,  
store, sell or dispose  of the same in such manner as the company  shall think  fit.
So the rules were that Mr S had to empty  the property and provide vacant possession, but if 
he didnt, he had 14 days to remove them.  After that, Mortgages  Plc could remove them and 
charge the costs of doing so to Mr Ss mortgage  account.
The evidence shows that that there were multiple  occasions when Mortgages Plc asked Mr 
S to get in touch so dates  could be arranged for him to remove his possessions,  in the 
company of a house sitter.  And as well as attending on 22 February  2018,  Mortgages Plc 
gave Mr S:
-14 days from 7 March  2018
-7 days from 11 April 2018 and 
-14 days from 2 November 2018.
I recognise that Mr S had told Mortgages  Plc that he had ill-health. But taking this into 
account, I find that Mortgages  Plc gave Mr S more opportunities to remove  his belongings 
than it had to under  the rules. I accept that Mortgages Plc couldnt  market the property, as it 
was entitled to, with the volume of items  in the house and garden at the date of possession.  
So I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint  that Mortgages  Plc failed to give him enough access  to 
the property to collect his belongings. 
Ive also considered the customer service provided  to Mr S, in particular for the missed 
appointment on 27 February  2018. I find that the £100 compensation suggested by the 
investigator, and agreed by Mortgages Plc, is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part:
-I do not uphold  Mr Ss complaint that Mortgages  Plc didnt give him enough access to 
the property for him to remove  his belongings;
-I order Mortgages Plc to pay Mr S £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience  
caused by the poor service around  the missed  appointment on 27 February  2018.
As set out above, this service  does not have jurisdiction  to consider Mr Ss claim that agents 
of Mortgages  Plc stole some of his possessions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8606042