K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2002 to protect a credit card. Miss L says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax,  
mis-sold her PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss L says PPI was added without her consent. Halifax  has given me a copy of Miss Ls 
signed credit card agreement. And on it I can see a box has been ticked  to select  PPI. 
Next to this Miss L has also signed  for the PPI. 
So, based  on what Ive seen, I think Halifax most  likely  made it clear that Miss L didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she most likely chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss L and her representatives have said  including that she 
wasnt told about other similar products available from other providers. But Halifax  was 
under no duty to do this. So these points dont change my decision.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss L paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Miss L back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Miss L now Ive issued my final decision.  
Ref: DRN80666342my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8066634