K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained about Assurant General  Insurance  Limiteds handling of his mobile phone 
insurance claim.
background
After Mr T made a claim on his mobile  phone insurance, it took roughly four weeks from the 
time Assurant received  Mr Ts damaged phone for a replacement  phone to be provided. 
Mr T was unhappy with the length of time he had to wait for the replacement phone, and with 
the fact he had to regularly  call Assurant to chase things up.
Assurant recognised the length of time Mr T had to wait was unacceptable.  It apologised for 
the inconvenience caused and offered  Mr T £75 compensation.  Mr T didnt think  the 
compensation was enough given the frustration  caused and his lost earnings.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt the majority of the delay  
was due to external factors  like faults eg with the delivery  company.  Ultimately, he felt 
Assurants offer was fair. Mr T disagreed and remained of the view that the offer wasnt  
enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with our investigator that some of the delay was due to the delivery company that 
was used. However, Assurant is ultimately  responsible for the settlement of the claim. And it 
took nearly four weeks for it to provide Mr T with a replacement phone.  I conclude  Assurant 
treated Mr T unfairly by making  him wait so long for the replacement (although I recognised 
Assurant had already  accepted that the delay was unacceptable).
I dont award compensation just because a financial  business did something wrong.  I award 
it if the wrongdoing caused a consumer  to suffer distress,  inconvenience or a financial loss.
Mr T has mentioned lost earnings due to having  to chase things and having to wait for 
deliveries that didnt arrive. But hes not been able to provide us with evidence showing what  
earnings were lost, or that they were lost due to delays in the replacement phone being  
delivered. This is particularly important  in this case because Mr T said his income is sporadic 
 one week he might earn some  income  but he might not earn anything  for the next few 
weeks. I dont therefore think there  are grounds  to make Assurant compensate Mr T for any 
lost income.
I am nevertheless persuaded that Mr T was distressed  and inconvenienced by being  without  
a replacement phone and having  to regularly call Assurant to chase matters. However, Im 
satisfied that Assurant has addressed this and that its compensation offer was fair.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN89255502Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8925550