K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they were mis-sold mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy. Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) has accepted  responsibility  for this 
complaint. So, I will refer to the business as Halifax in the rest of this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs G bought  a monthly premium  MPPI  policy in 1986  to protect their joint mortgage  
repayments against accident, sickness or unemployment. Mr G only was covered under the 
policy for accident and sickness,  for up to 24 months  per successful claim. He was also 
covered for unemployment, for up to 12 months  per successful  claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. As Mr and Mrs G dont  agree  with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  their complaint has been passed to me. Mr and Mrs G said they 
were pressurised  into taking out MPPI. They also said that Mr G had sufficient work  benefits 
through his public sector employer, so they didnt  need MPPI.  They  said they wouldve been  
able to afford to make  their repayments if Mr G wasnt working.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case. As some of the evidence is 
either incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what  I think  is most  likely to have 
happened  based on whats available. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G didnt take out the MPPI  at the same time as taking out their mortgage.  They  
took it out some months later. So, I think they probably wouldve understood they didnt need 
to have MPPI to get the mortgage and that it was an optional and separate  product. 
Mr and Mrs G said they were  pressurised  into taking  MPPI by Halifax. I cant  know what  was 
discussed at the time and this is a very subjective  area. But, from what  theyve said, I 
havent heard enough  to persuade me that Halifax pressurised them  into taking out the 
insurance. Mr S said hed not long been  working for his public sector  employer at that time 
and that Mrs S was off work, having  just had their child. So, I think  it more likely that they 
were persuaded that MPPI may provide them with valuable protection,  given their 
circumstances at that time.
So, I think it was made  clear to Mr and Mrs G that they didnt have to have  MPPI  and they 
chose to take it.
Halifax recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G, so it had to make sure the policy  was 
suitable for their needs. It also had to give them enough information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that they could make  an informed choice about whether to buy it. As this 
was a joint loan,  Ive taken into account Mrs Gs circumstances too when deciding  this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN81996852Halifax no longer  has a copy of the terms and conditions of the policy from the time of sale.  
So, Ive taken into account what weve learnt  from dealing with other Halifax  case about the 
terms and conditions that are likely to have applied  at the time.
I cant see that the policy looked  unsuitable for them. I say this because:
Mr G appeared eligible to take out the policy. Mrs S wasnt working at the time, so, I 
dont think she wouldve been eligible  to take out the cover.
Mr G said he wouldve  got up to twelve months  worth of sick pay through  his work. 
The policy likely wouldve  paid out on top of Mr Gs work benefits.  And potentially  for 
longer than Mr Gs sick pay wouldve covered him for. I think MPPI  wouldve been  of 
use to them during what might be a difficult  time financially if Mr G wasnt working, 
particularly as Mrs G wasnt working at the time and they said they had no other  way 
of making their repayments..  MPPI  wouldve provided them with valuable assurance  
that their home was protected.  It wouldve allowed them to use Mr Gs work benefits 
to meet  other household  expenditure. 
I think it likely that the policy was affordable at £4.00 per month  and they couldve 
cancelled the monthly  premium at any time without losing out financially. 
I cant see that Mr G was affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
So, I dont think having better  information about  these things wouldve changed their 
decision to buy MPPI  as Mr G couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered.
I cant be sure that Mr and Mrs G were given all the information about the costs of the policy 
they shouldve  been. But, I think they wouldve understood they had to pay something for 
MPPI and I cant see that Mr and Mrs G wouldve done anything  different and decided 
against having the policy with clearer information. I say this because the policy  seemed 
suitable, competitively  priced and affordable. 
Even taking  into account any problems with the sale, I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs G 
wouldve made a different  decision and not bought the policy. So, it follows that I dont  think 
they have lost out because of anything Halifax did wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8199685