K822xcomplaint
C complains that it was overcharged for its public and employers liability insurance by AXA 
Insurance UK Plc.
background 
C (a limited company) took out public and employers  liability  insurance through  a bank. 
Originally it was placed  with another insurer before  being transferred by the bank to AXA in 
2010 on the same terms and at the same  premium as with the previous insurer. 
At around the time of the 2015  renewal,  C decided  to review the market and found cover 
with a competing insurer for about a tenth  of the premium AXA was charging. C also used 
the services of a broker who told it that AXA was offering a policy with the same cover  for 
£150 as against the renewal premium C had just accepted of £705.06. C cancelled its policy 
with AXA mid-term and took out the policy with the competing insurer.
C complained to AXA that itd been charging it excessive premiums since  2010. AXA looked 
into Cs complaint but didnt agree.  It said each  annual renewal was a new contract which  C 
was under no obligation to accept. It said that at no time since 2010 had C expressed any 
unhappiness with the premium it was being  charged. It said the AXA product the broker had 
quoted to C wasnt comparable with policy itd offered at renewal. 
Unhappy with AXAs findings, C complained to this service. It said it wanted AXA to 
recalculate the premiums  it had charged  C since 2010 and reimburse it the difference. 
Our adjudicator investigated the complaint and initially found that AXA hadnt  misled C about 
the suitability or cost of the insurance.  But he also thought that AXA had failed to show that 
the product the broker found  wasnt comparable with Cs existing policy.  He said AXA hadnt 
made C aware of the arrangement it had made with the bank not to offer its customers  the 
new product (available  to direct customers online from 2012) before 2015. He thought  that if 
C had known AXA wasnt offering it the best deal because of its agreement with the bank  
then it wouldve taken  steps to find a better deal elsewhere sooner. He recommended  that 
AXA pay C the difference between what C paid from 2012 (when the online product became 
available to those  customers going  direct to AXA) to 2014 and what the online product 
wouldve cost from 2012 to 2014.  
C replied to say that, as a result of what  our adjudicator had said,  it was now clear  that the 
agreement between the bank and AXA was detrimental  to its customers. C said it had no 
idea about the existence of a restrictive covenant between the bank and AXA before our 
adjudicator mentioned it in his assessment, the effective of which was to keep premiums 
artificially high. 
AXA replied  to say that the online product wasnt comparable  to the bespoke policy C had 
because it wasnt suitable for covering multiple trades (as required and notified to AXA by C) 
unlike the bespoke one it had been providing.  It said the differences in cover, business 
description and policy  type could all have combined  to make the online policy significantly 
cheaper. AXA said it had noted  the policy C had ultimately taken  out with the competing 
insurer listed only one business  type.  So it said the redress our adjudicator had 
recommended wasnt  fairly calculated  because the online policy  the broker  had found (along 
with the policy C actually purchased) wouldnt have covered Cs business activities as listed 
on the bespoke  AXA policy.  So AXA didnt  think itd misled C because the online AXA 
Ref: DRN82067102product wasnt comparable. AXA apologised for not highlighting this earlier  when asked 
about the differences between the two products. 
AXA proposed a different basis for redress. It said the minimum premium it wouldve 
charged in 2012  was £400 for its commercial combined policy as based on Cs range of 
business activities. So it was prepared to offer the difference  between  that and what  C had 
paid from 2012  to 2014 together with interest  at this services usual rates. That came  to 
£608.01 plus interest to date of £92.08 totalling  £700.09.
Our adjudicator put AXAs suggested offer to C and told it what AXA had said about its 
online policy  not being suitable for covering multiple trades. He said he agreed that AXAs  
online policy  couldnt  have matched  the bespoke one in place since  2010. Our adjudicator 
accepted that AXA hadnt made these points  in its final response letter  but, having made 
them now,  he had to take them into account. He also said hed seen the policy  taken out with 
the competing insurer and that it wasnt unusual for different businesses  to charge very 
different prices for their products and for those products to provide different  levels  of cover. 
So he didnt think he could reasonably compare the two. 
But despite  continuing to have concerns about the relationship between the bank and AXA, 
our adjudicator didnt  reasonably think he could compare AXAs online policy  (the quote for 
which he hadnt seen) with the bespoke one C had had since  2010. As it wasnt broadly like-
for-like he thought he could no longer  say that AXA should pay the redress on the basis  hed 
first recommended.  But he thought AXAs recent  offer was reasonable because  it took into 
account that something had gone  wrong with Cs insurance. 
C didnt accept AXAs offer. It said itd checked AXAs online portal  and it did offer cover  for 
businesses carrying out multiple trades. So C said AXA was being disingenuous  by stating 
otherwise. It said AXA hadnt  acted in its best interest. AXA said that at the time the online 
quote was obtained in 2015, it didnt offer such cover. It said the broker would only have 
been able to select one trade/business for cover. Our adjudicator  said, as that was the case, 
he couldnt reasonably conclude that the policy the broker found was suitable for a business 
carrying out multiple trades.  It was only in 2018 that that became possible.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  that this complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why. 
Theres no documentary evidence available to show the cover offered by the AXA quote 
obtained by the broker in 2015. The only evidence about the business type C needed  
covered in 2015 appears on the schedule from the competing insurer.  There the business  
type is cited as business  consultancy. 
The bespoke AXA policy in place since 2010 covered multiple business types  business,  
change management,  fund raising and recruitment  consultancy. AXA had an online product 
available to direct  customers in 2012  (subsequently available  to former bank customers in 
May 2015) but that was only suitable for businesses of a single type. And it wasnt until 2018 
that this changed.
Ref: DRN82067103C has said that it was clear with the broker about  three aspects of its business.  I have  no 
reason to doubt that it was but I cant reasonably ignore the comments  from AXAs 
underwriters that in order to get a quote for the online policy in 2015 only a single trade could 
be inputted. And that being the case,  the risk presented  to generate  the quote was different 
to the one AXA was already covering under the bespoke policy.  As I said, I dont doubt  that 
C told the broker about the full extent of its business  and the cover  it required, but I cant  
ignore that different business descriptions  will generate different premiums as the risks the 
insurer is being asked  to cover are, by their very nature, not the same. 
That being  the case, and in the absence  of any documentary evidence to the contrary, I cant 
reasonably conclude that the two AXA policies were  comparable. I cant fairly say that AXAs  
online policy  could have  matched the bespoke one in place since  2010  at a much  cheaper 
price. The same could be said for the policy C did purchase from the competing insurer.  
But despite  thinking this, I also have concerns about the unknown effect the arrangement  
between the bank and AXA had on C and on the regulatory requirement  that C be treated 
fairly and not misled.  Whilst I cant reasonably  recommend  that redress be based on the cost 
of the online  policy (because, for the reasons already given, I dont think its comparable  with 
the bespoke one) I do think that some redress is due in order to fairly take into account that 
something went wrong with Cs insurance. 
Im satisfied that the method  of calculating redress suggested by AXA  calculating the 
difference between  what  C paid each  year from 2012-2014 and what AXA wouldve charged 
for its commercial combined policy in 2012  is fair in these circumstances. The difference  
comes to £608.01 to which AXA has offered to add interest at this services usual rate of 8% 
simple per year calculated up to the date it settles  my award. This seems  reasonable to me, 
particularly as the calculation is based  on the premium for the commercial  combined policy  
in 2012 rather  than also taking into account what the premiums  wouldve been in 2013  and 
2014 (when its likely the premiums wouldve  increased making  the difference  between  the 
two policies smaller). 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay C 
£608.01 representing a refund of what C paid for its policy  in 2012-2014 and what  it wouldve 
paid had it been offered alternative  cover. I also require AXA Insurance UK Plc to add 
interest* to this amount  at this services usual  rate of 8% simple per year until the date it 
pays this award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
*If AXA Insurance  UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell C how much its taken off. It should  also give C a certificate showing this if it asks for one, 
so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8206710