K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about the way agents  acting for Society  of Lloyds (SOL) handled his 
application for a Build-Zone warranty for his new build house.
background
In 2015 Mr K approached SOLs broker for a Build-Zone warranty.  This is a structural  
warranty that provides  cover for self-build  properties for a period of ten years from when the 
property is satisfactorily completed. The cost of the warranty  included £720 for site audit 
fees.
The build had to be inspected by SOLs surveyor at certain key stages. One of these stages 
was when the construction was at first floor level so that the cavities could be inspected.  The 
build has to be found to be satisfactory at these inspections in order for the warranty to be 
issued.
Mr K says SOL and its agents failed to carry out the cavity inspection required by the 
warranty. As a result  he might  not be issued with the warranty. He says the build has now 
moved on, so the cavities cant now be inspected because theyve been  filled with insulation  
material.
After Mr K brought his complaint to this service,  SOLs agent said in order to overcome the 
issue of the missed cavity  inspection,  it would need to see building  control reports and if they 
werent sufficient, a further  inspection might be required at Mr Ks expense. Our adjudicator 
thought SOL should cover the cost of obtaining the building control reports  or the necessary 
inspection if the reports are insufficient  and pay Mr K £250  compensation for the trouble and 
upset it caused  him.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter  has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset SOLs agent told Mr K inspections must  be completed at the correct  time as 
failure to do so could  affect the issue of the warranty.  It might  also be necessary to open up 
completed works to review them which would be at Mr Ks cost or to arrange an additional 
visit at an extra cost.  It said it was Mr Ks responsibility to arrange all visits. From what  Ive 
seen Mr K was aware of this and took steps to comply  with SOLs  requirements.
On 8 November  2017 Mr K wrote to SOLs agent listing his concerns about its appointed  
surveyor. The next day SOLs agent responded that it would look to appoint a new surveyor. 
I dont need to look at why Mr K had become dissatisfied with the service provided by SOLs  
original surveyor. Thats because SOL seems  to have accepted that Mr K had concerns and 
led him to believe  that a replacement surveyor would be appointed. I think it was reasonable 
for Mr K to rely on what hed been  told and expect that this is what  would happen.
Also on 8 November 2017  Mr K told the agent  a cavity inspection  was required on Monday 
or Tuesday of the following week. Unfortunately it appears that a new surveyor wasnt  
Ref: DRN87881762appointed and the original  surveyor rang Mr K. Its not clear  what  was discussed in that call 
except that no agreement was reached about  the cavity inspection.  
On 28 November 2017 Mr K wrote  to SOLs agent  raising concerns about the audit process. 
He said:
Repeated  requests for a stage inspection elicit no response for over a week. When a 
response is received  (from the surveyor I have asked to be removed from the project),  I am 
advised that the stage inspection will not be undertaken. 
He added:
This leaves me in a precarious position which is unacceptable. If the inspections have not 
been carried out in accordance with the requirements laid down, (notwithstanding that I have 
paid in advance  for these  inspections), how can I be sure that the warranty will be issued?
I can understand Mr Ks concerns. Its not clear to me why, despite  what it had told Mr K, 
SOL didnt appoint  another  surveyor to carry out the cavity inspection in a timely manner or 
take any steps to resolve the disagreement  before the building  works had progressed 
beyond the point when the cavity inspection could be carried  out. Since SOLs  agent  
appointed the surveyor, Im not sure what else Mr K could have done apart from keep 
chasing SOL which he appears to have done  without success.
In order to treat Mr K fairly,  I think SOL should do whatever is necessary to make up for the 
fact that the cavity inspection wasnt carried out by its surveyor at the appropriate time. I 
understand that the local authority building control inspection  reports  might provide  sufficient  
evidence to satisfy  SOL about the state  of the cavities and if not, a miniature inspection 
camera could be inserted into the cavity  to take images.
Mr K thinks  SOLs agent  should  know whether the inspection reports would be sufficient. Im 
not persuaded this is the case  because  the quality and amount of detail in such reports  may 
vary. He also thinks that if the building control officer was satisfied with the cavities,  SOL 
should be. I dont agree  SOLs requirements for issuing the warranty  may be more  onerous 
than and/or different from those required by building  control.
Mr K has asked  that if the building control inspection  reports and /or the camera inspection 
are inconclusive, I should require SOL to pay the additional cost to him of obtaining 
alternative warranty cover. I think it would  be disproportionate  to require SOL to do this since  
a subsequent inspection has highlighted a number  of other issues which need to be put right 
before a warranty can be issued.
As a result of the failings on the part of SOLs agents Mr K suffered the inconvenience  of 
chasing them about the inspection and the stress of being in a position  where  he might not 
be eligible for the warranty. I think the sum of £250 is reasonable to compensate Mr K for 
this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Society  of Lloyds  to:
pay for the cost of obtaining  the relevant building control reports or, if Mr K prefers and 
provides the appropriate consent,  obtain  the reports itself; 
Ref: DRN87881763(in the event that the building control reports are insufficient for its purposes) arrange  at 
its own expense  a miniature camera (Borescope)  inspection and make  good any damage  
caused by this inspection; and
pay compensation of £250 to Mr K for the trouble and upset  its caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8788176