K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
1997. Ms M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I can see that the PPI was added  at the same time as Ms M took out the credit card. 
She
signed the credit card application and ticked the box on the form to select  PPI. The
paperwork made it clear she didnt have to have PPI, so I think PPI was added because 
she
said she wanted it.
Lloyds accepts it recommended  the PPI to Ms M. So, it had the added responsibility  of 
considering whether the policy was suitable  for Ms Ms needs. It also had to give her 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading,  so that she could decide for herself  if 
the PPI was right for her and if she wanted to buy it.
I think the policy was suitable for Ms Ms needs, Ill say this because:
Ms M was eligible to take out the policy and it appeared affordable.
Ms M said she wouldve got some  sick pay through work and had some savings, 
she couldnt remember how much  she had in savings. But, I cant  see that her 
other means made  the policy unsuitable for her. PPI wouldve allowed her to use 
her work benefits and savings to meet her other household expenses at what 
might be a difficult time for her if she wasnt working. So, I still think  the policy  
couldve provided her with a valuable benefit.
Its possible  the information Bank  of Scotland gave Ms M about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But she chose  to take it out - so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ms M had a pre-existing medical  condition, but said she it didnt really impact on 
her day to day living. So, I think even  if she had been told more  clearly about how 
the main limitations  and exclusions  applied, she wouldve still taken out PPI. I say 
this because I dont  think she wouldve thought  shed have to take time off work 
out because of her pre-existing condition. So, I cant see that Ms M has lost out 
because of this.
Ive thought about everything Ms Ms said but these  points dont change my 
decision. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN84507732my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8450773