K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the advice  they were given when they took out an interest 
only mortgage with Santander UK Plc and how it dealt  with their request to extend the term 
of their mortgage. They ask that it extends the term for 15 years, waives  affordability  tests, 
pays compensation and provides answers to their complaint points.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a 10 year interest  only mortgage in 2008.  The term expired in 2018. 
Mr and Mrs M say they cant downsize or move  out of the area at the moment due to family 
responsibilities. 
Santander agreed to extend the mortgage  to 2023, at which  point it expects Mr and Mrs M to 
use a lump sum from Mr Ms pension and other  investments to repay the mortgage. Mr and 
Mrs M say they had no choice but to accept this. But they want the term extended  for longer 
to allow  time for their investments to grow enough to repay the mortgage without having to 
use the lump sum from Mr Ms pension. 
Mr and Mrs M have  a number of complaints points, which Ive summarised below:
the sale of the mortgage:
Santander didnt  ask for evidence in 2008  of how the mortgage would be repaid.
the mortgage consultant they dealt with in 2008  didnt allow them  to change the term to 
25 years  as she didnt want to re-issue the documents.
the mortgage consultant wrongly  gave  them  advice when it was a non-advised sale: she 
told them  it would be easy to extend  the term once the mortgage was taken  out.
Santander didnt  keep copies of pre-contract communication from 2008.  
the term extension:
Santander declined  to extend the mortgage to 2033.
Santander didnt  give them a full range of options available in May 2018. This led to 
month by month term extensions over seven months.
Santander didnt  provide its eligibility  or stress  test criteria for interest only options.
Santander misled  them about whether it was offering  a term extension or re-mortgage.
Santander didnt  follow  regulations,  including  MCOB 11.7.
Santander didnt  offer a face to face meeting with a mortgage  consultant,  didnt provide 
written documentation  and its team were only available during business  hours,  meaning  
Mr M had to take time off work.
Santander didnt  record details of conversations accurately in 2018.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said Santander had 
acted fairly  in offering a five year extension and it wasnt clear  that a longer extension was in 
Mr and Mrs Ms best interests. He said while he didnt know what had been said in 2008,  
mortgage regulations had changed significantly since then. The investigator said 
Santanders offer of £100 for making an unnecessary request for information about  Mr Ms 
pension was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. They said having  to repay the mortgage in 2023 would mean 
using a lump sum from Mr Ms pension, which would reduce his retirement  income. They  
said the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic  was likely  to mean their investments wouldnt 
generate enough funds  to repay  the mortgage  in 2023, even with the pension lump  sum. 
Ref: DRN85036972They said they need a longer extension to allow time for their investments to recover and 
generate sufficient funds  to repay  the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
the sale of the mortgage in 2008
The available documents from 2008  (such as the mortgage offer and customer choice 
document) say that Mr and Mrs M took out the mortgage on a non-advised basis.  The 
documents say Mr and Mrs M wanted a 10 year term to link in with existing investment 
policies. And they intended to repay the mortgage from existing policies and lump sum 
payments.
At that time,  Santander  didnt  have to ask Mr and Mrs M to provide evidence of their 
repayment vehicle.  
Mr and Mrs M say the mortgage  was first offered with a 25 year term. They say they 
changed this to 10 years. Mrs M says she called the mortgage consultant  and asked to 
change the term back to 25 years. Mrs M says the mortgage consultant refused, saying  they 
could easily  extend  the term after taking out the mortgage. 
Theres no evidence from that time now available which supports what  Mr and Mrs M have 
said. Santander didnt  have to retain all pre-contract communication from 2008, and I dont 
draw any adverse inference from it not doing so. 
Mr and Mrs M agreed to and took out a 10 year mortgage. While  Mrs M says she tried to call 
the mortgage consultant  after this about extending  the term, theres no other  evidence  now 
available to support  this. And theres  no evidence that Mr and Mrs M asked about extending 
the term when  they took out additional  borrowing in early 2009.
Mr and Mrs M say their complaint  is more about  the incorrect  information they were given  
that theyd be able easily to extend the term after taking out the mortgage. Mr and Mrs M say 
there was no timescale given for this. But lenders  criteria and the regulations they have to 
meet change. The rules of mortgage  regulation  have  changed considerably since  Mr and 
Mrs M took out their mortgage and what Santander  can offer customers  has changed as a 
result. While Mr and Mrs M might have been told in 2008 that Santander would agree to an 
extension, I dont think its reasonable to say that it would remain true indefinitely.  So I dont 
think its reasonable to hold Santander to this now.
Mr and Mrs Ms request for a 15 year extension
When Mr and Mrs M borrowed the money from Santander they agreed  to repay it at the end 
of the mortgage  term, in 2018. So when they asked for an extension,  they were asking 
Santander to change the terms  of their agreement.
Ref: DRN85036973The Financial Conduct Authority sets out in its rules that it expects stringent assessments of 
both affordability and, for interest only mortgages,  repayment strategy, before lenders agree 
to enter  into or vary mortgages.
However, there are two exceptions to this requirement. Where  an existing mortgage is to be 
varied and theres  no change to its terms likely to be material  to affordability,  an affordability  
assessment isnt required. And, if that rule doesnt  apply  (for example, because there is a 
material change), theres still no need  to carry out an affordability assessment provided  the 
loan balance  hasnt  increased since 2014 and the proposed  change  is otherwise in the 
borrowers best interests. Similar provisions apply to the assessment of a repayment 
strategy for an interest  only mortgage.
But these  rules dont  oblige  lenders  to make changes to mortgages.  They merely say that 
changes dont have  to be refused  if the criteria  are met  on grounds of affordability  or 
interest only repayment strategy. Changes can still fairly be refused on other  grounds   
though lenders are always subject to the requirement to act fairly, taking into account their 
customers best interests. Separately, the regulators guidance on interest  only mortgages 
requires lenders to keep  in touch with borrowers  and discuss  how the mortgage  is to be 
repaid, exploring  options to do so.
Santander didnt  have to provide Mr and Mrs M with its full range of options, or provide its 
eligibility or stress test criteria for interest  only mortgages, when they contacted  it in May 
2018. It needed to consider what options it could offer them,  and what  was in their best 
interests, taking into account  their particular circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  want to provide  income  and expenditure information  and they say 
mortgage regulations dont  require  this. But even if an affordability assessment isnt required, 
it doesnt mean a lender cant carry one out. I think it would be difficult for Santander to 
assess whether the term extension was in Mr and Mrs Ms best interests without information 
about their circumstances. I dont think its reasonable to say that Santander should have 
agreed to extend  the mortgage term without  establishing  how Mr and Mrs M would then 
repay it. I think  it was reasonable for Santander  to ask them for information about this. And 
(with an exception which  Ill deal with later) I dont  think  its requests were unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs M used  the proceeds of an endowment  policy that matured  in 2017 (about 
£111,000) to reduce the mortgage balance to about  £307,000. They  provided Mr Ms 
pension illustration which estimated hed be able to take a tax free lump sum of about  
£120,000 from his pension if he retired in May 2023. And they provided evidence  to 
Santander of other  investments. Santander  was satisfied that Mr and Mrs M would be able to 
repay the remaining balance in May 2023,  using the pension lump sum and investments.
On this basis, Santander agreed to extend the mortgage term to May 2023.  However,  Mr 
and Mrs M want  it to extend the mortgage  term for longer than this. 
Mr and Mrs M dont  want the income from Mr Ms pension  to be reduced, which  it would be if 
he withdraws a lump sum.  They say that extending  the mortgage  for longer will allow  their 
investments to grow  so that the mortgage can be repaid without using the pension  lump 
sum. But while this arrangement might work  for Mr and Mrs M, Santander isnt obliged to 
agree to it. In effect, Mr and Mrs M want Santander  to wait longer  for the money it lent to be 
repaid because, while they could reasonably expect to be able to repay  the mortgage in 
2023, they have other  plans for the money. 
Ref: DRN85036974I think it was fair for Santander to offer a five year extension, given that the information it had 
suggested Mr and Mrs M would have sufficient funds to repay  the mortgage at that time.  
Mr and Mrs M feel they didnt receive a good  service from Santander. They  found some  of 
the phone  calls upsetting. They say Santanders  notes  arent  an accurate reflection of the 
calls. They  wanted  to be together when they made  calls, which was difficult  as Santanders 
team was only available during business hours,  when Mr M was also at work.
I havent set out each  problem raised by Mr and Mrs M here, but Ive considered what  
theyve said and Ive no doubt they found  this matter  stressful.  I think  though, at heart, the 
difficult issue is that Mr and Mrs M want to extend their mortgage term for longer than 
Santander will agree  to, and without providing information about  their income and 
expenditure. I think a number of the calls and delays to agreeing the term extension  were 
largely due to Mr and Mrs M wanting to explore whether this was possible.  
But Santander accepts  it made an error when asking for information about Mr Ms pension 
and this led to a delay. The delay didnt  affect  the outcome  although  it no doubt added  to 
Mr and Mrs Ms upset.  Santander offered £100 compensation for the upset caused. Overall, 
I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M have  raised concerns about the effect  of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic 
on the value of their investments. I dont think at this point I can fairly  require  Santander to 
extend the mortgage term further when we dont  know  what  effect the pandemic will have on 
the value of Mr and Mrs Ms investments in three years time  or after. 
The effect of the pandemic will hopefully be clearer some time before 2023.  If Mr and Mrs M 
are still unhappy  about  using a pension lump sum towards repaying  the mortgage,  they will 
be able to take advice and consider what other options might be available. If events mean 
Mr and Mrs M are unable  to repay  the mortgage in 2023, they should contact Santander 
about this. It must, when  responding,  be mindful of its obligation to treat Mr and Mrs M fairly.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation offered by 
Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8503697