K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Europ Assistance  S.A. has declined his claim under his travel insurance 
policy. 
background
Mr A made a claim to Europ Assistance  S.A for costs incurred following the cancellation of a 
trip.  
Mr A had an ongoing ENT issue and was due to have surgery.  On 5 June 2018 Mr A 
received confirmation  that the surgery was due to take place on 19 July 2018. 
On 3 July 2018 Mr A booked a trip abroad  to depart on 4 August 2018.  At the same time he 
purchased a single trip cancellation policy to cover his trip. 
Mr As surgery went ahead as scheduled on 19 July 2018 without complication.  But following 
the surgery  he was advised that he wouldnt be able to fly for four weeks. So, he had to 
cancel his trip. He only received a partial  refund, so he submitted a claim to Europ 
Assistance S.A for the balance.
But Europ Assistance S.A declined his claim.  It said that hed cancelled the trip because of 
an ongoing  medical  condition, and that he hadnt declared this condition or the impending  
surgery when he bought the policy. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that Europ Assistance S.A had 
correctly declined the claim. But Mr A doesnt  agree with the outcome. He says that he was 
completely unaware that he wouldnt be able to fly for such  a long period after surgery.  So, 
hes asked for a review  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, I dont intend to uphold  
this complaint. 
I need  to decide whether Europ Assistance S.A has taken a fair approach when considering 
Mr A's claim. 
Mr A purchased a trip cancellation policy. And when he took out the policy  he agreed to the 
terms and conditions of the policy by selecting  the policy  he wanted. And under general  
exclusions set out in the terms  and conditions of this policy it says:
We will not be liable to make any payment under this Policy, for any Claim  arising directly or 
indirectly out of or in connection with:
N. any circumstances  or events known by a Person Insured or which  were  public 
knowledge, at the time this policy was purchased.
and
T. the pre-existing or chronic Illness of any Person Insured 
I. provided that they are not unexpected episodes  of the condition becoming  worse that 
prevent such Person Insured from making  the Trip. 
Ref: DRN87182902II. where, once  the condition was stabilised, such Person Insured  suffered an imbalance or 
worsening thereof  in the 30 days prior to their taking  out this policy.
Mr A says the circumstances or event that prevented him from traveling for four weeks  after 
the surgery werent known to him at the time the policy was purchased.  He says that the 
news from the doctor that he wasnt allowed to fly for four weeks  was unexpected. He says 
this was a small operation, where youre  normally discharged in the same  day. He feels he 
hasnt suffered an imbalance or worsening  thereof in the 30 days  prior to taking out the 
policy. Mr A maintains that nobody  told him he couldnt fly for four weeks  until after his 
surgery. 
I appreciate the argument that Mr A is making.  But I agree that Mr As claim is excluded 
under section N of the policy terms and conditions. When  he booked  the trip, he was aware 
of the upcoming surgery. It was something hed been waiting for, and hed finally been given 
a date. And even though Mr A says he wasnt aware of the restrictions on flying post-
surgery, thats not the full test. The full test here includes circumstances which were public 
knowledge at the time the policy was purchased.  
Mr A was aware of his upcoming surgery so it was his responsibility to check that the 
surgery wouldnt have any implications for his travel  plans. A quick  search online will tell you 
that for anyone whos had surgery there are clear  restrictions on flying  afterwards.  I 
appreciate that the timeframe for flying will vary. And I can see it fluctuates  from seven days 
up to six weeks. But this information  is easily accessible to members  of the public and its 
clear that you should always consult with a medical professional  before booking a flight  
or travelling after surgery. And if Mr A had done  so the medical  advice he wouldve received 
is not to fly for four weeks post-surgery.
I appreciate that Mr A is not going  to be happy  with the outcome. But I think the policy terms 
are very clear, and I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Europ Assistance  S.A to 
depart from its policy wording. So, I dont think Europ Assistance S.A has done anything 
wrong and this claim  has been  correctly excluded under the terms and conditions of the 
policy as set out above. 
my final decision
My final decision is not to uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept  or reject my decision before 12 
January 2020
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87182903
Ref: DRN8718290