K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Miss D complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2019.  In that I said I was minded  to 
uphold Mr B and Miss Ds complaint because Mr B had a long term medical condition  that 
made the policy unsuitable for him. A copy is attached  and forms part of this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have accepted my provisional decision, so I see no reason to change it. That 
means YBS must: 
Pay Mr B and Miss D the amount they paid each month for the ASU PPI, up to the point 
where it was replaced by unemployment  only cover.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr B and Miss D made a successful claim under  the ASU PPI policy,  YBS can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
YBS can also deduct from this compensation payment any commission  refund it has 
already paid to Mr B and Miss D that relates  to these  ASU payments only.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires YBS to take off tax from this interest.  YBS must give
Mr B and Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order Yorkshire Building Society  to pay the 
compensation described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2019. 
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83720442copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B and Miss D complain  that Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about  a mortgage PPI policy taken  out in Mr Bs sole name  in 2009.  The
policy was taken out during a phone call, after YBS had sent Mr B and Miss D a quote for
PPI some months earlier. The policy  provided Mr B with cover for accident,  sickness and
unemployment. The monthly cost of the policy was £35.21 and the monthly  benefit  was
£706. This would have  been  paid for up to 12 months for each claim.
A few months later the policy was changed so it only provided unemployment cover for Mr B.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should be upheld. YBS disagreed with the
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr B and Miss Ds case.  I have also taken account  of
the law and good industry practice  at the time the PPI policy was sold.
The main questions  I need to consider are:
- If YBS gave any advice or recommendation,  did it make  sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr B and Miss Ds needs?
- Did YBS give Mr B and Miss D the information they needed to decide whether to take out
the policy?
If there  was a problem with the way the policy  was sold then I need to consider whether
Mr B and Miss D are worse  off as a result. That is, would  they have done something different
 such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems  with the sale?
I am intending to uphold Mr B and Miss Ds complaint, but only in part. Ive set out my
reasons below.
Mr B and Miss D initially bought  cover for Mr B that covered him if he couldnt work because
of an accident, illness or if he was made redundant (commonly called  ASU cover). About
three months later the cover  was changed to unemployment only.  Im going to look at both
sales separately. Im doing  that because I think there was a second sale  when  cover was
reduced. Thats supported by the paperwork  sent to Mr B after the change, which  gave him
time to cancel the policy if he wanted to.
Mr B and Miss D say they didnt realise theyd bought  PPI and wouldnt  have if it had been
properly explained to them. Thats because both had good work related benefits and they
had some savings they could have used  if necessary.  So they dont think  it would have been
good value.
I dont need to make a finding about whether or not YBS provided enough  information  about
the cost and related benefits of the policy  when  it was sold as ASU, because I have another
reason for upholding  this part of Mr B and Miss Ds complaint.
Ref: DRN83720443YBS says that this was a non-advised sale. This means that it had to give Mr B and Miss D
enough information for them  to decide if the policy suited them  before they bought it. I dont
think YBS did this sufficiently. I say this because Mr B had a pre-existing medical condition
at the time of the sale. He would have been unable  to make a claim  for any sickness
connected to that condition where the claim was made within 24 months of the start date of
the policy.  Mr B has a long term condition  that requires ongoing  medication, which was
diagnosed before he and Miss D bought the PPI. And it can be linked  to other conditions.  I
think that means Mr B would, in all likelihood, never have been able to claim  for either  this
condition or anything related  to it.
I accept that the exclusion is ticked as being explained on paperwork completed by YBS at
the time of the sale.  But we dont  know what was said, and I dont think  this means the
exclusion was sufficiently drawn  to Mr B and Miss Ds attention. I think that if it had been,
they most likely wouldnt have taken the policy.
In summary, I do not consider the ASU PPI was suitable for Mr B because of his pre-existing
medical condition, which would have limited his ability to make a successful claim  for
sickness.
Having said that, the policy was changed a few months later so it only covered  Mr B for
unemployment. It still provided  cover of £706 a month, but the cost went  down to about  £20
a month. I cant say exactly why the cover was changed,  or how. But there must have  been
some contact between Mr B and YBS for that to happen. And, as the PPI was altered, it
suggests Mr B was discussing his requirements, or at least informing  YBS that he didnt
want the AS part of his original cover.
In those circumstances I cant see how he and Miss D could be unaware  theyd bought PPI.
Nor do I think they could have thought they had to have PPI in order to get the mortgage 
simply because they already  had it by the time the policy was changed.
I also think  it unlikely Mr B and Miss Ds circumstances  had changed  much in the three
months between buying the PPI and changing the cover. Having looked  at these, and the
terms and conditions  of the policy, it doesnt look like the unemployment  cover was
unsuitable. In particular it would have paid out for longer than Mr B and Miss Ds work
benefits. And it seems  to have been competitively  priced. So I dont think  YBS needs to
refund premiums for this later policy.
what the business should do to put things  right
YBS should put Mr B and Miss D in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out the
ASU PPI. YBS should:
 Pay Mr B and Miss D the amount they paid each month for the ASU PPI, up to the point
where it was replaced  by unemployment only cover.
 Add simple  interest  to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 If Mr B and Miss D made a successful claim  under  the ASU PPI policy, YBS can take off
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 YBS can also deduct from this compensation payment any commission refund it has
already paid to Mr B and Miss D that relates to these  ASU payments only.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires YBS to take off tax from this interest.  YBS must give
Mr B and Miss D a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN83720444my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im intending  to uphold Mr B and Miss Ds complaint in part.
Im going to ask Yorkshire Building Society to pay Mr B and Miss D compensation  in
accordance with the calculation of redress set out above.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8372044