K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that a fixed  sum loan agreement with Future Finance Loan Corporation  
Limited was unaffordable for her and that the loan shouldnt  have  been  made  to her. She 
also complains about the customer service  that shes received  from Future  Finance and the 
way that its responded to her health issues.
background
Ms D signed  a fixed sum loan agreement with Future Finance in June 2018 to pay for her 
tuition fees and living expenses when she was at university. The loan was to be repaid by 23 
monthly payments  of £5 and then 35 monthly  payments of £339.98. But Ms D says that her 
health issues became  worse so she had to leave  her course.  She then complained  to Future 
Finance that the loan had been made  to her irresponsibly. She wasnt  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She couldnt say 
that Future Finance had done  something wrong  or acted unfairly  in providing Ms D with a 
student loan in June 2018.  Ms D had said that her health had deteriorated to such  an extent 
that she could  no longer  afford to repay the loan and the investigator said that she would 
expect Future Finance  to deal with Ms D positively and sympathetically  but she couldnt 
see any evidence to show that it hadnt  done  so as it asked her to provide information about 
her income and expenditure.
Ms D has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that:
she couldnt continue  with her course  because of her health issues  which couldnt be 
accommodated by the university   she didnt want to leave the course and feels  that 
its offensive to say that she left the course because  of a personal issue;
she applied for a distance learning course  with the university instead but Future  
Finance said that she needed to make full repayments as she'd left the university  - 
she feels that shes still a student and should only be paying £5 each per month and 
cant pay the full monthly payment of £339.98;
Future Finance  didnt  ask her about  her expenses or anything like that and she 
doesnt think that it assessed her affordability   she says that its since  asked her for 
her bank  statements  but it shouldve got that information before the loan was made;
she doesnt think that Future Finance has treated  her fairly  she might have to have 
three operations  and has ongoing  health issues so shes  likely to be ill for a few more  
years; and
she completed the income and expenditure form but it only agreed  to put her account 
on hold until August 2019  and her finances are likely  to get worse as she cant  pay 
her gas and electricity bills and shes behind on priority debts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender should make proportionate checks about the affordability of a loan before lending  to 
a customer. Whats proportionate  will depend on the circumstances of the loan. Ms D had 
applied for a loan to pay for her tuition fees and living  expenses  when she was at university. 
And she agreed to make  23 monthly  payments of £5 while she was at university and then to 
Ref: DRN84102682make 35 monthly payments of £339.98 after her course had finished. The loan included 
£2,000 for tuition  fees and £5,000 for living expenses  and I consider that it was reasonable 
for Future  Finance to use that information as the basis for Ms Ds expenditure and to 
assume that she would  only have limited  income,  if any, when she was studying.
Future Finance  says that it uses a bespoke  and advanced risk and affordability modelling 
system that weighs over 1,000 variables when  making lending decisions,  including internal 
lending criteria that must be satisfied in order to proceed with an application. It says that its 
model takes into consideration a number  of variables when assessing  applications  and 
considers numerous  aspects of the credit  report but also many  other  internal  and external  
inputs including  affordability, statistics  associated with the course  of study,  credit  history and 
credit score.
Ms D says that Future Finance  didnt take account  of specified adverse information  that was 
on her credit  file in June  2018. But the first missed payment on one of those accounts wasnt  
recorded until July 2018 and the default  on another account in December 2013 was 
recorded against a different address and wasnt shown on the credit check that was made  by 
Future Finance.
I consider that the affordability checks that were made by Future Finance were  proportionate 
for the loan of £7,000  that was being made  to Ms D and that it was fair and reasonable for it 
to conclude, on the basis of those proportionate checks, that the loan was affordable for 
Ms D at the time that it was made  to her. And Im not persuaded that it was irresponsible  for 
it to have made the loan to her.
Ms D has described in some detail  the health issues that have caused  her to leave the 
course. That will have undoubtedly caused  considerable  upset for her and she has my 
sympathy for the difficulties with which shes had to deal. And shes also described the 
financial difficulties that shes now experiencing. A lender is required to respond  to a 
customers financial difficulties positively and sympathetically.  That doesnt mean that Future  
Finance is required  to cancel Ms Ds agreement and write-off  her loan, or to take any other 
particular action, as whats  appropriate  in each  case will depend on the customers  individual 
circumstances.
Future Finance  had kept Ms Ds monthly repayments at £5 and has asked her to complete 
an income and expenditure form  which shes done. Ms D says that shes  going to be 
taking a distance learning course. But Future  Finance has lent money to her and shes 
required to repay that money to it (to the extent  that Future Finance is legally entitled to 
repayment of that money). And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Future  Finance to write-off the loan, to cancel her loan 
agreement or to take any other action in response  to her complaint. But in seeking 
repayment from Ms D, its required to respond  to her financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically.
Nor am I persuaded  that the customer service  that Ms D has received from Future Finance 
has fallen below a reasonably acceptable level. It responded to her complaint 
comprehensively in its final response letter and its asked her to complete an income  and 
expenditure form to show what  she can reasonably afford to pay. I consider that to be 
appropriate. So I dont  consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require  Future 
Finance to pay any compensation to Ms D. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN84102683For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8410268