K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI) caused damage  to her home 
when it came out to make  repairs under  her home  emergency policy. 
background
Mrs L had a new water tank installed in her loft. The tank ruptured, and BGIs  engineer  
attended to make repairs. But while he was in the loft, he dropped a tool, which  fell through 
the ceiling  below. Mrs L said that meant that she had to make a second claim on her home  
insurance. She said that the ceiling could  otherwise  have been dried out, but because  of the 
tool falling  through  it, it had to be replaced. And there was some presence of asbestos in the 
ceiling, which had been spread into the room below  because  of the damage BGI did.
BGI said the tool only fell through  the ceiling because it was so damp. It said that this was 
consequential damage, which it wouldnt accept  responsibility for. BGI said it would pay Mrs 
L £30 for the delay in responding to her complaint, but it wouldnt pay anything  else.  
At first, our investigator didnt uphold this complaint.  She said that the damage had already 
been done to the ceiling, and the asbestos  had been  spread into the room, because  of the 
leak. So she didnt think that BGI had to pay anything for the repairs. 
Mrs L didnt agree with that. A family  member contacted  us on her behalf. She said that 
Mrs L had been  using the room where the tool went through the ceiling, before the engineer  
caused that additional damage. The water  damage  was mainly in a different area of the 
house, and this ceiling was expected to just dry out. Mrs L thought that the tool  was 
actually a boot mark, but she said that really, that didnt  matter, she just wanted the repairs  
done. And it was this penetration  of the ceiling  that spread  the asbestos into the room, not 
the leak. That meant that clothing and furniture had to be thrown away,  as well as some 
personal items which couldnt be replaced. 
Mrs L sent us the assessments made by her home insurers, which  included an assessment 
before the ceiling was damaged by BGI, and one after. 
Our investigator considered this new evidence, and she changed  her mind. She said the 
engineer that BGI sent shouldve taken more care when working with a damp  ceiling. She 
thought that it was this hole in the ceiling which caused the asbestos to spread, meaning that 
Mrs L had had to throw away a number  of personal items. 
Our investigator thought it was BGIs fault that Mrs L had to make  a second insurance claim.  
She thought  BGI should pay the two £50 excesses,  that Mrs L had to pay for her second 
buildings and contents claims, and she thought  it should pay the difference  in her premiums.  
She also thought  it should pay £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience  
caused to Mrs L. 
Mrs L didnt agree. She thought BGI should  also pay £450 for a mattress that her insurers 
had refused to replace. Mrs Ls home insurers had said the mattress could be cleaned, but 
Mrs L didnt feel comfortable  sleeping on it any more.
BGI didnt  agree  either.  It thought the tape measure which  fell was only able to penetrate the 
ceiling because it was damp. So it thought it was the original damage from the leak which 
caused the problem, not the dropped tape measure.  BGI thought the ceiling damage and the 
Ref: DRN83070342original leak should  all have been included in one property  claim. And it said a check  for 
asbestos had already  been recommended, but the likelihood of contamination was 
negligible. And it thought  £500  was too much compensation, for minor damage caused  by a 
tape measure falling through a ceiling.
Because neither side had agreed with our investigator, this case  was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Id looked  carefully  at the evidence, including the report  of damage on Mrs Ls home.  
And I understood that before the ceiling in this room was damaged,  it was expected  to 
just dry. I thought  that was also consistent with what Mrs L told her home  insurer  when 
she reported the damage, which she had first noticed in the downstairs area of her 
property, not the bedroom. 
-So, I thought  that before BGIs engineer unfortunately dropped  a tool onto the damp  
ceiling, and that tool fell through, there was no need  to replace that ceiling. There  was 
also no need to throw away any personal  items  in the room below. 
-BGI said it didnt cause this problem.  It thought  the real cause wasnt the dropped  tool, it 
was the leak.  I accepted it was more likely that this tool would fall through, because  of 
the condition of the ceiling. But, like our investigator, I thought  the engineer knew that the 
ceiling was damp, and so also knew he needed  to be careful. I also noted that if this tool 
hadnt been dropped,  the ceiling would  just have dried. Because  it did drop,  the ceiling 
had to be repaired. 
-For these reasons, I said the cause of the damage to Mrs Ls ceiling, and of her second  
home insurance claim, was the falling tape measure, not the pre-existing damp.
-Our investigator said BGI should  pay the two £50 excesses, that Mrs L had to pay for her 
second buildings and contents claims. As Id decided the second claims happened 
because of the falling tape measure,  I thought  that was right.  Mrs L wouldnt have had to 
pay that if it hadnt been for that damage. 
-Our investigator also thought BGI should pay the difference in Mrs Ls home insurance 
premiums. I thought that if Mrs Ls home  insurance  premiums had increased as a result 
of this second claim, then BGI should  pay that, for the same reason Id set out above. 
But it shouldnt have  to pay any increase  that happened because  of the first claim. 
-It wasnt clear, when  this case came to me, whether Mrs L had needed to pay higher 
premiums, or whether she would do so in the future. So I asked Mrs L about  that. 
-Mrs L got her home insurer  to write  explaining  how much  her premiums had gone up, as 
a result of the second claim only. It said this cost her £48.44 more this year. And it 
expected that the second claim  would  continue to affect her premiums for the next 
renewal after this one. I thought it was reasonable to assume that this effect would be 
roughly the same amount  next year. So I thought that BGI should pay £100  towards  the 
increased costs of home  insurance for Mrs L.
Ref: DRN83070343-Our investigator also thought that BGI should  pay £500 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused to Mrs L. BGI thought that was too much  money.  But I didnt 
agree. Firstly, I thought  that Mrs L had previously been able to use this room.  It was little 
affected by the leak, and was expected  to just dry out. Because  of the damage BGI 
caused, she had to have ceiling repairs in that room. Those may have been needed 
elsewhere in the property anyway, but they werent otherwise  needed here. 
-I also noted that Mrs L had personal  items  in the room, which had to be thrown  away. I 
expected her home insurer would compensate her for the replacement cost.  But Mrs L 
explained to us the sentimental value of some of the items, which couldnt be replaced. 
-Taking account of all of the above, I thought that a payment of £500 in compensation 
was fair and reasonable in this case.
-Mrs L also wanted us to ask BGI to pay for a new mattress, because  the old one was 
damaged, and she didnt want to use it again.  But I thought that if Mrs Ls home insurer  
said the mattress could be cleaned and returned  to an acceptable standard, then it 
wouldnt be fair for me to expect BGI to replace it for her. I understood why Mrs L didnt 
want to sleep on it any more,  but I thought that was her choice in this instance. So I 
didnt think BGI had to pay for that. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs L got in touch to agree with my provisional decision, and to set out the relevant events 
for us. BGI replied to disagree.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mrs L described the events after the leak. She said the builders  had already been  in to her 
property to assess the damage  and provide a report after their inspections.  The loss adjuster 
visited later,  which  happened to be the same day that BGIs engineer was there to fit a new 
tank. The loss adjuster  had told Mrs L that ceiling repairs were  needed  in one room only,  the 
box room, and the ceiling in the bedroom she was using  should just dry out. But then the tool 
had fallen, and the ceiling  in the bedroom  she was using did need to be repaired. So a 
separate claim had to be made. 
That description fits with the evidence Ive seen in this case. I continue to think  that Mrs L 
had to make  a second claim on her insurance, because  of what  BGI did.
BGI has written to our service a number of times  about this case. It said that it wanted  to see 
details of the premium  increase, which weve shared with it.
BGI said for it to investigate further,  it would  require something in writing from Mrs Ls home 
insurer to show that the whole  ceiling  needed  to be repaired, the dates of each  of the two 
claims and confirmation  of the work  carried out. BGI thought  that proof of repairs to the 
whole ceiling  would show whether the ceiling needed to be replaced before the tool fell. If 
the tool had caused the problem, then it would expect a spot repair  wouldve been  sufficient. 
Ref: DRN83070344BGI also said it wouldnt be fair to make  it pay the excess for the second  claim and the 
increase to future home  insurance premiums. Mrs L might not end up paying these amounts, 
if her home insurer made a counter claim against BGI. And BGI said Mrs L could change  
insurers, and might find that the claim does not impact her as much, or at all with other 
insurers. BGI thought  I was suggesting  it should  pay for something  that hadnt  happened and 
may never happen,  if a counter claim was successful or if Mrs L changed insurer.
Id like to start by setting  out again  that I think that the cause of the second home insurance 
claim that Mrs L made was a dropped tape measure.  I think  theres good evidence that the 
ceiling in Mrs Ls bedroom was expected to just dry out, before the tape measure was 
dropped, but that it had to be repaired after the tape measure dropped. 
I dont know whether the ceiling had a patch repair, or was totally replaced. But, as Ive 
explained to BGI, I just dont think the extent  of repair work which  had to be done makes  a 
difference to my considerations. I dont agree that the extent of the repair required, after the 
tape measure fell, could be used to prove whether or not Mrs Ls home  insurer was wrong to 
say that the ceiling wouldve dried  if a tape measure  hadnt been dropped through  it. 
Whether the home  insurer needed  to replace the whole  ceiling,  or just do a patch repair,  this 
was treated as a separate home  insurance  claim.  BGIs engineers negligence  caused  Mrs L 
to pay two £50 excesses that she otherwise wouldnt have paid.
Its my view that Mrs L has also provided good evidence  of the increased costs to her, and 
has shown that those are from the second  claim only. As I understand it, shes  already  paid 
just under £50 in increased premium. 
If Mrs Ls home insurer is now seeking to counter claim  for the cost of the claim resulting 
from the dropped  tool, it could to try to claim back the policy  excesses for Mrs L. But it 
doesnt have to. That doesnt  automatically  happen.  And I note that BGI told us around a 
month ago that it thought a counter claim had been  received. If the home insurer was trying 
to recover Mrs Ls costs,  then I would have expected BGI to alert us to that. It hasnt done 
so. In the absence  of evidence that Mrs Ls insurer is trying to recover the excesses that 
shes paid, I dont think that I should assume  both that its going to try to do that, and that it 
will succeed. I think its reasonable to tell BGI to pay Mrs L for the two excesses.
BGI said it wouldnt  offer to cover those excesses,  because it thought that would be an 
admission of liability for the second claim. I understand why concerns  around a counter 
claim may have affected BGIs position  on this complaint. But my decision is binding  on BGI 
if Mrs L accepts  it. This isnt an admission by BGI. 
I also dont think I can assume that Mrs Ls insurer will be successful in any counter  claim, 
and then will also return some of the premium shes already paid. And we do know that Mrs 
L has already paid that money.  So I think its fair to ask BGI to pay that now.  
Its possible that Mrs Ls next premium increase, for 2020, may not materialise, if her home 
insurer succeeds in its counter  claim against  BGI, or if she moves  to a different insurer. But 
my understanding is that, at the moment, Mrs L has a lower no claims discount than would 
be the case if her second claim  hadnt  been necessary. And I dont  think it would be fair to 
refuse to compensate  Mrs L for this now, because theres a possibility that this might  change 
in future. So I think its reasonable  to say that BGI should pay a further £50, on the basis that 
Mrs L currently has a reduced  no claims discount  due to BGIs negligence. 
Ref: DRN83070345BGI also said that it thought a payment of £500  in compensation was disproportionate.  It 
said that the cause of the inconvenience  to Mrs L was the leak. I dont agree with that. I think  
that Mrs L was still able to use her bedroom  before the tape measure fell through the ceiling, 
and if it hadnt  fallen, she would have been  able to continue to use that room. Because it fell, 
she was put to a considerable  amount of inconvenience, on top of the existing 
inconvenience of the first claim caused  by the water leak. 
Mrs L also had to throw away some personal possessions  which  were damaged when the 
tape measure went through  the ceiling. Some of those cannot be replaced. Shes told us of 
the impact that this had on her. And I also note that Mrs L hasnt been able to deal with this 
complaint to us herself, until very recently. She said shes  been too upset. 
I still think that a payment  of £500,  to make up for the additional distress  and inconvenience  
caused to Mrs L by BGIs engineers negligence, provides a fair and reasonable resolution  to 
this part of her complaint.  
Ill now make  the award I proposed earlier.
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mrs L £200 towards the 
extra costs  shes incurred  for home insurance.  And it should pay Mrs L £500 in 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8307034