K822xcomplaint
Mr I has complained about Pinnacle Insurance Plc. He isnt happy that it wouldnt set up a 
pet insurance policy for his dog.
background 
I considered this complaint and outlined the background to the case and my thoughts in my 
provisional decision as follows;
Mr I applied for a lifetime cover  insurance  policy for his dog with Pinnacle. It looked into his 
application but wouldnt provide cover. This was because it applied  seven exclusions  to his 
policy and the maximum it would allow is five. 
Mr I complained to Pinnacle as he didnt feel that the application  of the exclusions  was fair. 
He provided evidence from his vet in support of his position which Pinnacle reviewed. But as 
it maintained its position he complained to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
sympathised with his position  she thought that Pinnacle hadnt  done anything wrong. She 
thought it was entitled to decide whether it was prepared to provide cover  for Mr Is dog and 
she was satisfied that its underwriting criteria supported its position.
As Mr I didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld  and Ill explain why.
Although I accept that Pinnacle can decide what cover it is prepared to offer I dont think it 
has acted fairly in this instance. As Mr Is dog had collapsed  the month before he applied for 
cover it wanted to try and get to the bottom of the reasons why. As Mr Is vet decided that a 
heart test wasnt required it applied four exclusions stemming from the fact that the dog had 
collapsed the month  before. 
While I can understand this Mr Is vet (who has treated the dog since  it was young) has 
provided a clear explanation as to why a heart  test wasnt necessary. The vet was happy 
that the dog had collapsed through heat excursion in the summer heat and has provided a 
thorough account  of their rationale and reasoning.  As they were  the treating vet I find their 
opinion persuasive  and Pinnacle has little explanation as to why it went against  this 
professional opinion. Maybe  it couldve  said that it still wanted the test undertaken if it wished 
or tried to be more  helpful generally.  But it simply said it wasnt prepared to consider the 
issue further or insure the dog which I think is unfair in the circumstances.
It has been over a year since  Mr Is dog collapsed  and as there is no veterinary concern 
about this. So I think it is clear, on balance, that the dog just suffered heat exhaustion.
I have confirmed with Pinnacle that it hasnt placed  any markers about the refusal to provide 
cover on any external or internal systems  and so I think  it should write out to confirm  this to 
Mr I. 
Ref: DRN81484482So, although  Pinnacle is entitled to decide  if it wanted to insure Mr I or not Id expect it to act 
reasonably. But I dont think it has in this instance based on the facts and information before 
it, especially  from the treating vet. As things stand  Im minded to ask Pinnacle to reconsider 
whether it will insure Mr Is dog and remove the four exclusions in relation to the collapse 
now we are a year down  the line. And pay Mr I £300 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused; including the fact that he felt he couldnt insure his dog because  of 
the fact it wouldnt  insure  him.
Finally, Mr I and his vet accepted that two other exclusions that Pinnacle was looking to 
apply were fair but he queried whether one that was related to his dog being muzzled when 
seen by the vet was fair. I can understand his position and I can see he has provided 
evidence that his dog isnt generally aggressive.  While I accept this, Pinnacles underwriting 
criteria is clear that it will apply an exclusion in these  circumstances so I think this is fair.
Given all of this I was minded to uphold Mr Is complaint and ask Pinnacle to reconsider 
whether it will insure Mr Is dog and pay him £300 compensation.
replies
Mr I responded. He asked  for clarity around  how things would be finalised after the final 
decision. And whether Pinnacle  was obliged to reinstate the insurance cover  with a new start 
date. He also asked  for a copy  of Pinnacles  response so that both he, and his vet, could 
consider the further representations  which  were provided.
Pinnacle reiterated a lot of its previous arguments and provided further detail from its 
Veterinary Advisor supporting its position.  
In brief it said the exclusions were placed  in line with its underwriting guidelines in respect of 
the pre-existing undiagnosed collapse. Pinnacle said that the collapse happened two days  
prior to being examined by Mr Is vet. And so whilst examination at that point did not suggest  
any immediate cause  for the collapse,  the Advisor  thought that it wasnt possible to know  
either way. It says that there wasnt any contemporaneous note to suggest heat was 
considered as a possible  cause at that time.
Pinnacle also says that my provisional decision appears to make use of hindsight which it 
feels is unfair. Reiterating that the policy was underwritten at the point the policy  began. And 
it couldnt have  known what was to happen in the year, or years,  following  the policy starting.  
Which is why the exclusions were reviewable after two years and it said that it didnt see any 
reason why these  exclusions  wouldnt be removed if there hadnt been any reoccurrence. 
The Veterinary Advisor highlights that Mr Is dog wasnt seen for two days  after the collapse. 
And outline that a number of transient conditions wouldve eased by then and that the ability  
to fully diagnose what happened  to Mr Is dog had gone. They did discuss the treating vets 
physical examination which revealed  a regular heartbeat; no murmurs; and that the heart 
tests that were undertaken were  within  normal  limits  and no further abnormalities observed.
They also wondered whether the treating vets examination was affected by the fact that 
Mr Is dog was nervous or aggressive;  suggesting that subtle changes in the dog may not 
have been picked up. The Advisor also suggests  that this, and the fact further  
investigation/follow up wasnt  undertaken, may have meant a more  steady condition could 
have been missed.
Ref: DRN81484483Pinnacles Advisor felt that as Mr Is dog wasnt seen for two days then it wasnt possible to 
be sure whether the collapse  was brought on by a heart  condition;  muscle condition;  
respiratory condition;  or metabolic condition as opposed to heat exhaustion. They 
highlighted that often seizures  can be mistaken for episodes  of collapse additionally.
They went  onto say if the episode was in fact a collapse that was exercise induced that this 
could indicate  other  issues;  such as other heart related causes (which were not 
investigated). The Vet Advisor also suggested  that Mr I may have missed his dog losing  
consciousness. They say pet owners often miss clinical  signs  or even loss of consciousness 
after a seizure. Given  all of this the vet concluded that any number of conditions  could have 
caused the episode that Mr Is dog had. 
Ultimately, Pinnacle maintained its position.
Mr Is vet commented on Pinnacles further  representations. In effect Mr Is vet said that at 
the time the policy was taken out they couldnt believe the exclusions were placed.  They  
couldnt see any direct  history that indicated Mr Is dog was suffering from either heart,  
respiratory or neurological issues. 
They said it appears  that the exclusions all stem from a consultation after Mr Is dog 
collapsed in the park after playing in the heat. Unfortunately the treating vet didnt include 
that it was a hot day and that this was the main  factor in causing the collapse. The 
symptoms that Mr Is dog exhibited on the day where  examined  and as the vet could find no 
conclusive diagnosis over and above heat exhaustion. But the treating vet did rule out any 
heart, respiratory or neurological  causes  behind the collapse. The treating vet highlighted 
that Mr Is dog hasnt  had any subsequent issues with the above  either  before or after this 
episode.
Mr Is final comment  was that to exclude my dog from cover based on sheer unproven  
hypothesis in the face of medical  evidence to the contrary cannot  be a proper way to 
interpret or implement underwriting criteria.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive particularly focused on the 
further representations made. But I still believe the complaint should be upheld. 
Ive considered Pinnacles further representations in detail. It is a shame  that it didnt provide 
this level of detail  in its initial correspondence  with this service. It feels that my position  
makes use of hindsight and I can understand its point. But the passage  of time is a factor in 
this case which is why it would look to revisit  the exclusions  itself after a two year period. In 
effect the passage  of time has eliminated some of the initial  concerns that Pinnacle had and 
reinforced the view of the treating vet.
Indeed, Pinnacles  own Veterinary Advisor has relied on hindsight within their 
representations. And although they make  some valid points  the best evidence comes  from 
the treating vet that saw Mr Is dog around the time of the collapse. The treating vet remains 
of the view that the collapse was down to heat exhaustion. This seems  logical  at that time of 
year and the treating vet has reiterated that this was the clause of the collapse.  
Ref: DRN81484484The Veterinary Advisor highlights that Mr Is dog wasnt seen for a few days after the 
collapse. While I can understand its concern, Mr I simply wasnt  concerned enough  to rush 
to the vets. And I havent seen anything  to say his testimony,  from the time of the collapse,  is 
anything but accurate. Although I accept  he isnt a vet. 
But Mr Is dog was seen  by a vet around  that time. And there professional opinion is the 
strongest evidence that we have. I know that Mr Is dog was muzzled  but this appears  to be 
the treating vets working practice  as opposed to any concern that the dog was aggressive.  
And, as outlined in my provisional decision, there  isnt any evidence to suggest Mr Is dog 
was aggressive. Even though I accept that Pinnacle can apply its clause because his dog 
was muzzled at the time of treatment.
So, although  Im satisfied that Pinnacle is entitled  to decide if it wanted to insure Mr Is dog 
or not Id expect  it to act reasonably. And I dont think it has in this instance based on the 
facts and information before it, especially from the treating  vet. 
Given the significant passage of time I think it is only fair that Pinnacle  reconsiders whether it 
will insure Mr Is dog now. And remove the four exclusions in relation  to the collapse that it 
added previously. Plus, it should  pay Mr I £300  compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused; including the fact that he felt he couldnt insure his dog because  of 
the fact it wouldnt  insure  him.
Finally, Mr I has queried how things will be settled after my final decision and whether 
Pinnacle will be obliged to simply re-instate  cover with a new start date. In fact Im simply 
asking it to reconsider whether it will provide  cover now, without relying on the four 
exclusions discussed. This is because Im satisfied, on balance,  that Mr Is dog simply 
collapsed through heat exhaustion and that the treating vet has provided sufficient evidence 
to support this. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Pinnacle Insurance Plc to reconsider  whether it will insure Mr Is dog now, after removing the 
four exclusions discussed  above. And pay him £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8148448