K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the handling  of his pension transfer. He says delays caused  by 
Station Associates Limited (Station)  led him to miss out on a higher cash  equivalent  transfer 
value (CETV) that was being offered by one of his former pension  scheme  providers.  
Background
Mr B first met with Station  in October  2016  to discuss his pension arrangements.  It was 
discovered around this time that two of the pensions Mr B held and required advice on were 
defined benefit  arrangements.  This meant that Station wasnt  able to provide Mr B with 
advice as it didnt  have the relevant permissions to provide pension  transfer  advice. Instead,  
Station referred  Mr B to another regulated firm (Firm T), which did hold the required 
permissions to provide  advice  of this nature. 
However, before Mr B was referred  to Firm T, Station  completed  Firm Ts pension 
questionnaire with Mr B. And it requested a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from 
Mr Bs two defined benefit pension providers,  P and L. And a transfer  value from Mr Bs 
defined contribution plan with S. 
Ps CETV was sent to Station on 11 April 2017.  This confirmed  a total transfer  value of 
£541,296, which was guaranteed until 10 July 2017. The transfer  value for the plan with S 
was dated 10 May 2017 and the CETV  for L was dated 11 May 2017.  Once  Station had 
received all three transfer values, it requested a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) 
quotation. This was received on 25 May 2017 and all the paperwork (including Firm Ts 
pension questionnaire)  was sent to Firm T the same  day.
Firm T sent its suitability report  to Station  on 26 June 2017. This report set out Firm Ts 
recommendation that Mr B transfer  all three of his plans to a SIPP. Station contacted Mr B 
on 26 June 2017  to arrange a further meeting to go through the paperwork it had received 
from Firm T. Stations  email to Mr B said Looking to arrange an appointment latter  part of 
this week or early next week.  Possible  you could  give me a few options and we can finalise
Mr B met with Station on 4 July 2017 and signed a client confirmation form confirming that 
he understood the advice and wished to proceed.  This document was dated 5 July 2017, 
although Mr B says he signed  it on 4 July.
Station returned  the document pack to Firm T on 5 July. This was received  by Firm T on 7 
July and was sent the same day to the SIPP provider. However, the SIPP  provider wasnt  
able to get the pension  release  form to P before the CETV deadline expired on 10 July. P 
received the forms  on 13 July but no ID form was included in the pack. P wrote  to the SIPP  
provider on 24 July to explained that the transfer  couldnt go ahead  as it was still waiting for 
ID documents. 
Station emailed Mr B on 17 August 2017 to let him know  that one of the providers required 
ID and address documents. On 23 August Mr B emailed ID information over to Station. This 
was received by P on 18 September 2017.  Given  the time that had passed since  the 
deadline for the guaranteed CETV. A new CETV was produced which confirmed the transfer 
value had reduced to £477,847.54.  
Mr B eventually accepted  the reduced transfer  value in January 2017 and P transferred the 
fund to the SIPP. 
Ref: DRN86412582Mr B complained to Station in early 2018 about the mismanagement  and maladministration 
he had experienced. He said that:
He was unaware that there was a transfer guarantee deadline of 10 July 2017 until 
he received a letter from P on 6 October  2017,  confirming that the deadline had 
been missed.
He signed  the documents put in front of him during a meeting  with Station on 11 May 
2017 but these were  subsequently dated  18 May.  And the relevant information was 
then not sent to Firm T until 25 May 2017.  Had these forms been sent the day Mr B 
had signed them,  Firm Ts suitability report would  have been issued much  sooner. 
The email from Station on 26 June didnt express  any sense of urgency. Mr B had 
been free to meet  anytime from 20 June 2017. 
P had informed him that it wrote  to Station on 24th July 2017,  confirming that the 
completed 'Proof of Identity/ Proof of Age form hadnt been  included with the rest of 
the documentation received on 13th July. P confirmed that this was included  in the 
April transfer pack that had been  sent to Station. The ID wasnt then received by P 
until 18 September 2017.
In response to the complaint, Station said it referred Mr B to Firm T for advice on a pension  
transfer, as it isnt regulated to give pension transfer advice. And that it only said it would 
liaise with him and third parties where  helpful. Station also said that to facilitate the transfer, 
it arranged for Mr B to sign the documentation.  And it delivered Firm Ts report and got 
confirmation he understood it to ensure there  were  no postal issues.  Station said it wasnt  
involved in the research and analysis of the transfer,  or responsible  for requesting  further 
information or processing documents. And it didnt  agree the deadline  was missed due to its 
mismanagement.
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Station objected to us 
considering the complaint, saying it only acted  as an introducer to Firm T, which isnt a 
regulated activity. It said Firm T advised Mr B on whether  a pension transfer was suitable  
and was responsible for all communications, timescales and delivery of advice. And that 
Station didnt have  any oversight, formal administrative function or promise  to secure advice 
with a predetermined outcome.
I issued a decision confirming that I was satisfied  that Station had carried  out a regulated 
activity and so the complaint was one this service could consider. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the merits  of the complaint  and concluded that it should be 
upheld. He said that once Station knew that Mr Bs plans were define  benefit arrangements,  
it should have  passed all the information  on to Firm T. Even  if Station had an agreement with 
Firm T that it would  request information from the pension providers, once it received Ps 
CETV it should have  been aware  of the 10 July deadline. So it should have been chasing L 
and S for their transfer values. After all the information was received by Station, it should 
have done more to get all the information to Firm T sooner.  Meeting  with Mr B to sign the 
forms and then sending  this back to Firm T added an unnecessary  step in the process. And 
Station didnt include the relevant ID forms which caused a further delay.
Station didnt accept  the investigators findings. It said that it had chased L on eight 
occasions to obtain the CETV. It also said that its adviser was unaware of the deadline of 10 
July because Firm T was responsible for the process. Despite this it returned all the relevant 
documents to Firm T, for them to arrive  at the SIPP provider by 7 July 2017. The deadline 
Ref: DRN86412583was missed because  the processing took longer and overran the deadline. The reduction in 
Ps CETV had been calculated to produce  exactly the same benefits to Mr B as was 
previously available  with the higher CETV. So if Mr B hadnt gone  ahead with the transfer, he 
wouldnt have been materially  worse off.
The investigator reviewed  Stations further  comments but confirmed that they didnt change 
his view. He thought Station ought to have known  about the deadline because the CETV 
was sent to it. And he couldnt see why Station hadnt sent both CETVs to Firm T sooner. Or 
at least made Mr B aware  that there was a deadline. If Mr B hadnt gone ahead  with the 
transfer then he would  have remained in his P pension and wouldnt have been worse  off. 
But in this case, Mr B was looking  to transfer  his pension and due to delays caused by 
Station, he missed the guaranteed date of 10 July. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for mostly the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Ive firstly  thought about Stations involvement  in the process. Station says that Firm T was 
responsible for the process and advice but Ive already reached a decision confirming that 
Im satisfied Stations  actions amounted  to carrying out a regulated activity. 
Station may have  believed that it wasnt managing the process for Mr B. But I can see why 
Mr B would have the impression it was. Until the CETV deadline  passed,  Mr B had not had 
any contact with any other parties  involved. His only interactions had been with Stations 
adviser. 
Station appears  to have chosen the SIPP provider, obtained CETVs and a SIPP quotation,  
submitted all the paperwork and taken responsibility for explaining the contents of Firm Ts 
suitability report to Mr B. So although not providing advice on the transfer, it appears to have 
been acting in its capacity as Mr Bs financial adviser. I appreciate that Station said its 
adviser wouldve  explained the correct  position at the start but Ive not seen any evidence  of 
this. 
In fact, Mr B has consistently  said that he was unaware that Stations adviser didnt have 
permission to advise  on the transfer. And hes said that he wasnt given any paperwork. 
I find his testimony compelling in this regard. And I think its supported  by his email in 
December requesting copies of all documentation.  Some  of these documents   including the 
client agreement and suitability report) were sent by Station on 15 December  2017.  Im 
satisfied that this was the first time that Mr B had sight of these documents, given the 
queries he raised  on receipt of them. And had he received a copy of Ps CETV when it was 
issued, he wouldnt have  needed to request this again, in his emails to Station dated 18 
December 2017,  14 January 2018 and 2 March  2018. 
If, as it says, Station  didnt  intend to be involved in the process, it needed  to do more  to 
make all parties aware if this. As it was, Mr B was relying on Station to arrange the transfer  
of his pensions.  And as can be seen from the declaration  Mr B signed  to accept Firm Ts 
advice, Firm T was relying on Station  to explain its advice. I also note that Station 
Ref: DRN86412584acknowledged in its complaint response to Mr B dated 18 January 2018, that the adviser  
received the suitability report detailing the recommendations  from Firm T on the 26 June and 
was asked  presumably by Firm T - to ensure that Mr B received it, had read it and 
understood it and if you wished  to proceed with the recommendation to ensure that any 
documentation required  was completed fully and accurately . As it stands, I think  Station 
played a vital role in the transfer process and just because  it didnt  give advice, I dont think it 
means that the complaint  doesnt succeed.
Did Stations actions cause Mr Bs loss?
I acknowledge that time can be very tight when  there is a CETV with a three  month widow 
for acceptance involved. The investigator set out his view as to where he considered  Station 
caused delays.  He thought it could have sent information to Firm T as and when it was 
received, rather than delaying it until Ls CETV was received.  Station says that it 
understands Firm T required  all three of the transfer values in order  to understand the full 
picture relating  to Mr B. This doesnt  seem  unreasonable to me and I note that Station did 
chase L when  it didnt receive its CETV as quickly as it had Ps CETV. However, its 
Stations actions after the suitability letter was sent to it that cause me concern. And I think  
fell short  of what I would have expected it to do. 
Station maintains that Firm T is responsible for any alleged losses  on the basis that it had all 
the necessary  documentation in time to process this transaction. And it was aware  of the 
deadline that had been set for Ps CETV. And I acknowledge that Firm T ought to have been 
aware of the deadline. But it doesnt  appear  that Station  notified  Firm T that Mr B was 
proceeding with the transfer before it sent the completed paperwork to it. Given the active  
role Station  was taking  in arranging the transfer, it ought to have  let Firm T know  that it was 
meeting with Mr B. It could then have discussed possible options for ensuring that the 
relevant paperwork  was received by the correct parties in time. As it was Firm T forwarded 
the paperwork to the SIPP provider the day it received it. But Ive not seen anything  to 
suggest that Station couldnt  have  arranged for the paperwork  to be sent directly  to the SIPP  
provider, given the timescales involved  and the fact that it was to ensure that any 
documentation required  was completed fully and accurately.
Like the investigator, I think Station  ought  to have been aware of the deadline. P had sent its 
CETV directly to Station and the deadline  was clearly set out on this paperwork. It was also 
mentioned in Firm Ts suitability report. I think this was a crucial  bit of information that 
needed to be explained to Mr B, or at the very least, if it was merely acting as an introducer 
 which  for the reasons Ive explained above,  I dont  think  it was  then it needed to ensure  
that Mr B was fully informed and in receipt of all the necessary  paperwork.  
Had Mr B been adequately  made  aware of Stations role and provided with a copy  of the 
documents, I think he would have  spotted  that there  was a deadline.  I say this because  as 
soon as he was sent copies of the documentation from Station in December 2017, he 
noticed that one of the forms had been incorrectly dated and that the ongoing annual fee 
had increased  from the agreed 0.5%  to 0.6%.  So I think its likely he would  have read any 
documents hed been given and would have  noticed  an important deadline. As it stands, this 
didnt happen  as Station failed to provide Mr B with copies  of the documents.  
After receiving the suitability report,  Station ought to have been aware that speed was of the 
essence. So when  it emailed Mr B to arrange the meeting on 26 June, I think  it was at this 
point, at the very latest, that it ought to have made  Mr B aware  of the deadline. As it was, it 
doesnt appear it did this at any point before the meeting and it wasnt  mentioned in the 
Ref: DRN86412585email which  explained  that a meeting was required.  Had Station explained the urgency of the 
situation to Mr B, Im confident that he would have arranged to meet  as soon  as possible. 
Even bringing the meeting  forward a matter of days would have meant  that Ps deadline 
would have been met. 
Im conscious that P said that the ID form was not included when it received the paperwork, 
this is despite  Firm T saying  it had already been sent. However,  Ive not considered  this 
aspect further because the deadline  had already passed. 
I appreciate that Station says that Mr P wouldnt have suffered a loss at all had he not 
proceeded with the transfer at the lower CETV. But as the investigator explained, Mr B was 
looking to move his plans to a SIPP.  And there was nothing to suggest that the CETV would 
increase in the future,  in fact it had already  reduced from the value obtained  in October 
2016. So I dont  think it was unreasonable to for Mr B to go ahead. Delaying the transfer  for 
even longer might have  caused him to suffer an even greater loss. 
Mr Bs has said that he was told by the adviser at the start that he would arrange everything  
for him. And I do believe that Stations adviser was involved  with the best of intentions.  But 
its unfortunate that Station didnt make it clear what its role was Mr B. And its failings meant 
that Mr B wasnt fully informed of the situation  and ultimately the deadline for Ps CETV was 
missed, which  I think Station could have  prevented  from happening. So I think that Station is 
responsible for Mr Bs loss.
Putting things  right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible
to the position he would  now be in if the guaranteed CETV  value had been transferred.
What should Station  Associates Limited  do?
To compensate Mr B fairly  Station should:
Compare the performance of Mr B's SIPP  with that of the benchmark shown below.
If there is a loss, Station should pay into Mr B's pension plan, to increase  its value  by
the amount of the compensation and any interest.
If Station  is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr B is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement  age, the reduction would equal  the 
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would  have  been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Station considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much
Ref: DRN86412586Its taken off. Station  should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so
he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment
nameBenchmark from
(start date)to
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr Bs
Flexible
Transitions
AccountThe Flexible
Transitions
account,
based on a
transfer value
of £541,296
from Mr
Bs
P plan10 July 2017 date of
settlementnot applicable
Ive chosen 10 July 2017 as the date Mr B would have been  able to transfer his P
pension with the guaranteed CETV, if it wasnt for the delays caused  by Station.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Stations Associates 
Limited to pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8641258