K821x#15complaint
Mrs N says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs N took out with a store  card in 2000. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why below.
In order to be eligible  for the policy,  Mrs N had to be in paid employment for at least  16 hours  
per week  at the time of the sale.
But Mrs N has told us she was working for less than 16 hours per week  at the time. She 
therefore wasnt eligible  for the policy and the policy wasnt of any use to her.
FICL has said Mrs N hasnt provided any details about her employment. But in her initial 
submission to this service, Mrs N said she had been  working  part-time  for a supermarket for 
around ten years. And, when asked about the hours she worked, she told us she worked 
less than 16 hours per week.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Ns application  form for the store card,  but the employment 
details section of this form has been left blank. And I havent seen any other  evidence  which  
contradicts what Mrs N has told us. So I think its likely she was working  less than 16 hours 
per week  at the point  of sale.
I also dont think the application form makes the eligibility criteria of the policy clear. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest FICL  made the eligibility  criteria  clear to Mrs N at any other 
point of the sale. So I dont think FICL gave Mrs N clear enough information  about the 
eligibility requirements of the policy.
I dont think Mrs N wouldve bought the policy if shed realised she wasnt  eligible for it. So I 
think shes lost out as a result of what FICL  did wrong.
Ref: DRN88707932putting things right
FICL should put Mrs N in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs N would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs N owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs N would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs N would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs N 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs N paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs N 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs N what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs N a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June  2019
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8870793