K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about the charges levied by Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) when  he returned a car he had on finance  with them.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2018. I explained why I was planning  to uphold Mr 
Js complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision is set out below:
Mr J took receipt of a new car in November 2013. He financed  the deal through  a four year 
hire purchase agreement.  
When he returned the car at the end of the agreement MBFS wanted to charge him just 
under £3,000 for refurbishment of damage  they said was beyond  normal wear  and tear, and 
also for services they said hadnt  been completed. 
Mr J took the car back and arranged his own repairs at an independent garage. When he 
returned the car it was too dark to inspect it and the dealership said theyd do so in the 
morning. So Mr J was shocked  to later be provided with a further bill that MBFS  said was still 
due.
They said the repairs Mr J had completed were unsatisfactory and that he should have 
replaced some items instead of repairing them. In particular, they said the front grille; front 
bumper; mirror housing and damaged alloy, all required replacing and not refurbishing. So, 
as the work hadnt been completed to the correct standard, some of the charges remained.  
MBFS also removed a charge for a missing  service when Mr J provided evidence hed had 
one done but some services records werent available and so the charges remained.  The 
new outstanding  bill was just over £1,840. 
But Mr J was dissatisfied with this proposal so he referred his complaint to this service and 
our investigator took a look at the evidence.  Neither  MBFS nor Mr J had any photographic 
evidence to support  their assertions so the investigator had to provide his view on the 
information he had available to him: and this was very limited.  
He noted Mr J had said hed had the services done and thought  MBFS could have checked 
with the garage. So he thought  it was fair to waive the £750  charge for the allegedly  missing 
services. He also noted that MBFS seemed  to have charged for the missing logbook twice  
so he thought they should waive one £25 charge. He also thought  MBFS should  waive  the 
charges for new tyres and for refurbishment to the alloys, but he noticed that Mr J hadnt had 
the wheel  replaced and therefore thought that charge  should  stand. 
He explained  that as Mr J had had the grille, bumper and door mirror repaired rather  than 
replaced he hadnt complied with MBFSs requirements. So he thought  the charges for this 
work should stand.  But when the investigator  took all of this into account the final sum 
payable was more  than MBFS had already offered. So he thought it was reasonable to 
suggest this was the figure (£1840.01) Mr J should pay. 
MBFS accepted the investigators proposal but Mr J didnt agree. He said hed been told by 
the driver  and the dealer that the car was acceptable when hed delivered it to them,  and he 
Ref: DRN87142502didnt think it was fair to pay MBFSs inflated prices when they hadnt demonstrated anything  
was wrong. So he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators suggested resolution. Please let me explain  
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the refurbishment charges 
The terms of Mr Js hire purchase agreement said he should maintain the vehicle in a 
condition which is consistent with the attached vehicle return  standards
They provided a copy of these standards in which  they explain what  condition the various  
panels and trims need to be returned in. Theres no requirement in this guidance  for panels 
or trim to be replaced; theres  simply a statement of the condition  expected.  So if Mr J 
wanted to repair any damage it was allowable  to do so, as long as the result  was the 
condition of the panel, grille or trim was within guidelines.
Mr J didnt have to use an authorised Mercedes workshop  but if he didnt he would have to 
face the consequences if the repair was unsatisfactory. MBFS reminded him of this after 
their initial inspection.
Its normal in these  circumstances  for the car to be inspected; usually by a third party, when 
its returned. But whilst there was an inspection before the car was sent for repairs, there  is 
no record of one being completed afterwards.  
I dont think its fair for MBFS  not to have  completed an inspection  and shared the results. 
Mr J had chosen to have the repairs done  himself so I think  it would have been reasonable 
of MBFS to have inspected the car when it was returned. As it was too dark to do so they 
should have completed the inspection the next day. But they didnt do this and theres  
therefore no evidence  of the condition  the car was in. They have denied Mr J the chance to 
dispute their findings  with them or with the garage  whod completed the expensive  repairs on 
his behalf. And without  this report its not possible for me to ascertain whether the additional 
repairs were required.
So for these reasons I think MBFS should  waive all of the refurbishment charges  theyve  
made as its not reasonable to charge Mr J for something they cant justify.
the missing service charges
Ref: DRN87142503The finance  agreement says that:
the vehicle must be serviced in accordance  with  published service intervals within the 
Official Workshop Networkfailure to fulfil this obligation may result  in a charge to 
compensate us for loss we incur
The charge  for a vehicle of this class  not maintained to the requisite service requirements is 
detailed later on as £1,260.
MBFS say that they didnt  receive  service stamps for 2014,  2015 and 2016. Three  service 
charges would equate to £3,780 but MBFS have  charged just £750. Theyve explained that 
rather than charge the full figure  they considered a lesser charge and as thats  less than 
what they appear to have  been able to levy I think theyve been fair in asking Mr J to pay 
this.
missing V5
The vehicle return standards explained that the V5 would need to be returned  to MBFS. Its 
not disputed that this was not returned  with the car and therefore a single charge of £25 
seems reasonable.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and tell 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  to amend the invoice theyre  asking Mr J to 
pay. The new invoice  should only charge:
£750 for missing  services in 2014, 2015 and 2016; and
£25 for the missing  V5 document.
Im expecting to also ask MBFS to remove any adverse credit entries they may have made  
to Mr Js credit file in respect of the refurbishment invoice.
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional  decision  by 25 March  2018 with any new 
information or comments they wanted me to consider. MBFS didnt  respond  but Mr J did. He 
said that the service  indicator on the dashboard would  have  still been  on if the services 
hadnt been completed and he said that, unfortunately, the garage where hed had his 
services done had since closed. He also explained  that the V5 has now been found and 
returned to the dealership.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been persuaded by Mr Js argument  about the service charges. The terms of the 
contract explain that the services must be completed and I think its reasonable to suggest 
Mr J needed to be able to demonstrate that. Ive not been provided with evidence the 
services took place and neither were MBFS. As a result the vehicle would have been worth 
less at auction and MBFS should therefore  be able to charge for the missing  services in line 
with the agreement Mr J signed with them. 
Ref: DRN87142504Im also not persuaded that the charges for the missing V5 should  be reversed. The V5 
should have been returned,  in line with the terms and conditions in the contract, at the end of 
the agreement. Any administration costs  that were incurred by MBFS as a result,  were  
incurred before the car was resold. So I dont think it would be fair to ask MBFS to waive  that 
charge as theyve  probably already incurred a loss they cant  recover.  So my provisional  
decision is unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  to amend the invoice theyre asking Mr J to pay. The new 
invoice should  only charge:
£750 for missing  services in 2014, 2015 and 2016; and
£25 for the missing  V5 document.
MBFS should also remove  any adverse credit  entries they may have made  to Mr Js credit  
file in respect of the refurbishment invoice.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8714250