K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about BlackStar  Wealth Management Ltd. Hes unhappy with pension 
advice it gave him in 2014. He was advised  to transfer a number of personal  pensions into a 
self investment personal pension (SIPP).  He says the advice was unsuitable.
Mr D is represented in this complaint.
background
Mr D met with an unregulated adviser  in 2014. The adviser had spoken  with him about two 
possible investments:
The Colonial Capital Group Plc Corporate  Bond
The Dolphin Capital GmbH Loan Note
Mr D was referred to BlackStar for regulated advice. The unregulated adviser sent a number 
of documents  on to BlackStar. It reviewed  these documents  and told Mr D that he had been 
categorised as a Medium-High risk investor. His attitude to risk was said to be eight on a 
scale of one to ten  where one is the lowest and ten the highest  level of risk. 
BlackStar explained that the types  of investment Mr D was considering were only suitable for 
investors that are comfortable with a relatively  high degree of risk. In a later conversation, 
Mr D said that the risk rating of eight was too high and this was revised down to seven.
BlackStar completed a fact-find and gave a recommendation. The fact-find  noted  that Mr D 
was in his mid-forties, married with children and in good health. He was in employment with 
earnings of around  £40,000 per year. He had a small mortgage with equity in his home and 
held £30,000 in shares and £14,000  in cash savings.
Mr D wished to retire  at 65. He held four personal  pension plans worth over £40,000. He was 
advised to transfer three of the funds into a SIPP and make  the proposed investments. One 
plan was left in place due to a high exit penalty. The total transfer was around  £35,000  with 
£12,000 to be invested in Colonial and £18,000 in Dolphin.
BlackStar explained that investing 95 per cent of the portfolio in these two investments was 
much more risky than investing  in a conventional portfolio, due to the lack of diversity.  It also 
explained that there was no protection available from FSCS.
The transfer went ahead. The Colonial Capital fund went into administration and Mr D lost 
out. He complained to BlackStar about the advice  but it didnt uphold  the complaint  and so 
its been referred to this service.
An adjudicator considered  the complaint. He decided that it should be upheld and gave his 
reasons. He said, in summary:
BlackStar gave advice. It was not acting on the instructions of a third-party.
There was a recommendation to invest in two unregulated investments.
The recommendation was based on a risk questionnaire completed by the third-
party. This didnt  truly reflect Mr Ds risk profile.  There were conflicting  answers  and 
the conflicts were not resolved. 
Ref: DRN87782192Mr Ds risk tolerance was not as high as seven. It should  have  been  modest  or 
medium.
The recommendations were unsuitable  and posed a greater degree of risk than he 
ought to have been advised to accept.
The adjudicator set out how redress should  be calculated.
BlackStar didnt agree.  It said, in summary:
Advice was provided.
The requirement was for advice  in relation to the Colonial and Dolphin investments. 
These investments  were suitable  for Mr D taking into account all of the 
circumstances. The most suitable option may have been a broadly diverse strategy  
but the advice had to take into account the actual intended investments.
The risks with the chosen strategy  had been  discussed.
The risk profile was completed  by Mr D and agreed by him as accurate. 
Individual answers to risk profiling  questions cannot be taken in isolation and a 
blended approach should be taken.
Mr D had invested in narrow  investments  in the past. The attitude to risk of 7 or 7.5 
was medium to high risk and this was appropriate.
The adjudicator responded and reiterated  his view that the investment strategy posed a high 
degree of risk and was unsuitable.
BlackStar disagreed  and also said that the redress calculation  didnt take into account the 
fact that Mr D had changed  advisers.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for essentially  the same reasons.
The Colonial  Capital and Dolphin Capital investments  were  non-mainstream and were high 
risk unregulated investments. 
Colonial Capital was a new start-up with no track record. It invested in distressed residential 
property (which had been  foreclosed)  in the USA.  I understand that Colonial Capital Group  
went into administration in March  2017.
Dolphin Capital was a German-based  company which invested in the conversion  and 
refurbishment of listed buildings (in Germany) for residential use. 
Both these  investments were highly specialised and non-mainstream.  They  involved similar 
underlying assets,  which  were based  overseas. I think they presented  a high degree of risk. 
Also, there was no ready  market for the investments, and so they were  potentially illiquid. As 
such, Mr D may well have experienced difficulty in redeeming the investments. This could 
have impacted on his pension  planning. 
Ref: DRN87782193BlackStar accepts that it provided advice. It says the recommendations it made were  
suitable for Mr D and in line with his risk profile. I disagree. The strategy it recommended 
was to invest ninety  per cent of the three transferred pensions into two unregulated 
investments. Im satisfied  that this represented  a high risk strategy  and was not suitable  for 
Mr D. It posed  too high a degree of risk, even if Mr D was correctly  categorised  as having  an 
attitude to risk of 7 or 7.5, which seems doubtful.
When Mr D was asked direct  questions about  his risk tolerance,  he described this as 
moderate. He also said he would  be very upset  with investment losses over forty per 
cent. The recommended  investments both carried a risk of total loss.
Whilst it may be the case that some answers  to a risk profile cannot be taken in isolation, 
there were a number  of answers that Mr D gave, like the two answers above, which   were  
not consistent at all with a recorded  attitude of 7, 7.5, or 8. The inconsistencies dont seem to 
have been fully addressed.
On balance, I dont  think these investments were suitable for Mr D. There  was a lack of 
diversity and these were non-mainstream investments. It was not appropriate to invest  ninety 
per cent of his pension  funds into two non-mainstream, unregulated  investments. The 
recommended strategy was too risky and unsuitable.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr D would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Ds circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
what should  BlackStar do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, BlackStar  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ds investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
BlackStar should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, BlackStar should  pay into Mr Ds pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If BlackStar  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ds pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
Ref: DRN87782194The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ds actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr D would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BlackStar  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr D how much has been  taken off. BlackStar should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. I think it is fair 
and appropriate  to calculate  any loss up to the date of this decision even though Mr D may 
have taken advice  elsewhere. This is the fairest way to compensate for any losses  sustained 
due to the non-mainstream investments.   
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. BlackStar should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If BlackStar  is unable to purchase  any of the investments,  the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. BlackStar may require that Mr D provides 
an undertaking to pay BlackStar any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. BlackStar will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN87782195Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  have been  a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if BlackStar totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
Although it is called income  index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ds circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8778219