K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc wont refund the premiums  he paid for his card 
protection policy.
background
Mr B complained hed been mis-sold a card protection policy  in January 1998. HSBC  didnt 
uphold the complaint. In relation to the premiums  paid before 14 January 2005, it said the 
fraud cover hadnt been overstated and it seemed Mr B had found the other  benefits  of the 
policy useful. And in relation to the premiums paid on or after 14 January 2005, it said Mr B 
had missed the date for claiming under  the redress scheme thatd been set up for policies 
such as his. Mr B brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Bs complaint  be upheld. Mr B didnt agree so his 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
the premiums paid before 14 January 2005
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been given the sales  documentation for the policy, so I cant  be sure exactly what 
the benefits were  or how they were  presented. But from what I know  about  these policies, its 
most likely fraud cover was one of the main benefits.  And the overlaps between it and what 
Mr B already  had under the law and general rules  and obligations on banks and card 
providers werent made clear. I therefore cant say Mr B was given enough clear and fair 
information to decide whether to take the policy.
But the next step is for me to decide what  would  have happened if Mr B had been given 
clear and fair information. Clearly, I cant know this for sure.  So, Ive had to decide  what I 
think is most likely.  
Usually the other main  benefit of this type of policy was being  able to make one phone call to 
cancel all cards. The policy  administrator  has provided its records for Mr B. They show  he 
had a number  of cards registered for this benefit  across four different businesses.  And it 
seems he kept the registered cards up to date.  They also show he made  a loss report in 
June 1999.
Mr B says he only took the policy out because he thought  he needed to in order  to have a 
suitable level of protection  from fraud . He says the ability to make  one phone call to cancel 
all cards wasnt important to him. In support of this hes said that when he called the policy 
administrator to make the loss report,  hed already called  HSBC himself to report  the loss 
and was simply calling the policy administrator to make sure the records were aligned.  
The investigator asked  HSBC about  the loss report. It said its records dont show Mr B 
making a loss report direct to it. Given the time thats passed, I dont think  the absence  of a 
record of this is definitive. But taking everything into account, it seems most likely  to me that 
the ability to make one phone  call to cancel  all cards  was important  to Mr B.
Ref: DRN80580492Ive considered all of this against the backdrop of the sale being in 1998  when the policy cost 
£8 a year. I know my decision will disappoint  Mr B, but taking everything into account, I think  
its most  likely he would have still taken the policy out  even if hed been given clear and fair 
information about the fraud benefit.
the premiums paid on or after 14 January  2005
As the investigator  explained, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  set up a redress 
scheme for card protection  policies in 2013 and decided  this service should follow the 
scheme rules when deciding complaints about  sales of policies that wouldve been  covered 
by it. Im satisfied Mr Bs card protection policy was partly covered by the scheme.
This means  that rather  than decide  whats fair and reasonable in relation to the premiums  
paid on or after 14 January  2005, I can only look at whether the redress scheme rules were  
followed and whether Mr B has received what he was entitled to under  those  rules.
The redress  scheme  rules say Claim Forms  must  be received by the Scheme 
Administrators on or before the Bar Date.  If a Claim Form is received after the Bar Date, the 
Claim Form will be rejected and the Scheme  Creditor [Mr B in this case]  shall have no right 
to Redress.
So, claims had to be made by the bar date which was 30 August 2014. Although there  was a 
later bar date of 28 February 2015  if one of the exceptional circumstances listed in the rules 
applied.
The redress  scheme  has provided its records for Mr B. They show a vote form was sent to 
him on 9 November 2013 and a claim form on 11 February 2014. But a completed  claim 
form wasnt received, and Mr B didnt  contact the redress  scheme before the relevant bar 
dates. I also cant see that Mr B contacted HSBC before the bar dates.
The redress  scheme  rules simply say, Any notice  given  under the Scheme by the Scheme 
Administrators to any person shall be sufficiently served  by posting the same by first class  
(or equivalent) or airmail post to or leaving  the same at the address  of such  person last 
known to [the policy administrator]. I can see the documentation was sent to Mr Bs address 
at the time.
I accept Mr B may not have received it. But there  wasnt  a requirement for it to be received. 
And in fact, the rules explicitly say, The Bar Date will apply to all Scheme Creditors 
irrespective of whether  or not they receive  actual written notice of the Scheme.
Having looked  at what happened  here, Im satisfied the redress  scheme rules were followed.  
I understand Mr B is frustrated and feels as though exceptions have been  made  for others. I 
cant comment on whether businesses have decided to make exceptions for others.  The 
redress scheme rules dont allow for an exception to be made. And as set out above, Im 
required to follow those  rules when deciding his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN80580493Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8058049