K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Vitality Health Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining  his 
claim under a private health  insurance  policy. He wants his claim settled and compensation.
background
Mr N had the benefit of a private health insurance  policy with Vitality  through  a group  policy  
taken out by his employer.  He made  a claim under  the policy to receive a cash  benefit 
following several admissions to a NHS hospital for acute pancreatitis and related necrosis. 
Mr N said that Vitality  had given poor service and caused him stress  and inconvenience,  as 
well as giving him incorrect or misleading  information that he needed to take out a new 
policy to have the claim considered as his policy had ended  when he was made redundant.
Mr N complained to Vitality. It said Mr Ns claim was declined as he was admitted for 
emergency treatment  via the accident  and emergency department  according  to the medical  
evidence with which it had been  provided.  Vitality said that under the terms and conditions of 
the policy, if a policyholder was admitted to a NHS hospital in an emergency, no benefit 
would be paid for any part of the admission. It said if Mr N provided evidence  from the 
hospital that the admissions werent  an emergency, it would review its decision.  Vitality also 
contacted the NHS for further information.
Mr N complained to us. He said that while the first admission  was through the accident and 
emergency department, the other  admissions  were through the GP (but connected to the 
original reason for admission). Mr N also got a letter from a consultant confirming that two 
admissions hadnt  been through the accident and emergency department, but it didnt 
answer Vitalitys question about  whether  the treatment was pre-planned and potentially 
covered by the policy. A later letter  said that a one night stay was a planned admission.
The investigators view was that Vitality had given  poor service and overlooked letters  from 
the consultant.  He said that it should  consider  the claim for two admissions  as they hadnt 
been made through the accident and emergency  department and pay him £2000 for this, as 
well as £100 for the trouble and upset hed suffered.
Vitality disagreed. It pointed out that it had considered the consultants letter when received 
and had explained to Mr N why it wasnt sufficient. Vitality said this showed that it hadnt 
overlooked evidence or given poor service.  It also repeated that the evidence was that the 
admissions were emergency admissions and so not covered  by the policy.
The investigator didnt  change his view about the claim, and increased the compensation for 
trouble and upset  to £350 as he said Vitality  had sufficient evidence to pay the claim for over 
a year.  Vitality disagreed  again and set out the relevant policy  terms which showed that the 
cash benefit was only payable if there  was pre-planned NHS treatment that couldve been 
provided privately. As Mr N was very ill, vomiting and had fever,  Vitality  said this wasnt the 
case. It highlighted the NHS evidence that the admissions were emergencies  and noted 
Mr N didnt claim for several months after the first admission, so it didnt cause any delay.
Ref: DRN88667912my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
The terms and conditions  of the policy make  it clear that if a policyholder chooses to be 
treated through the NHS, as opposed  to privately  under the policy, then such  pre-planned 
treatment can result in payment of the NHS cash benefit. This is to reflect  the cost saving to 
the insurer if NHS treatment is used.  Emergency  treatment is not covered, and if a patient is 
admitted as an emergency, no part of that admission will result in payment of the cash 
benefit.
The policy does not say that the point of entry must be through the emergency and accident  
department. Emergency treatment can be administered without going through  this point of 
entry. The key question is whether its reasonable for Vitality to conclude the admission was 
an emergency.
Mr N had acute pancreatitis  and then necrosis according to the medical evidence.  These  are 
medical conditions  that are urgent  and can be life threatening. All the admissions,  including 
the insertion of a line in the one night stay, relate to these conditions.  So, given the nature of 
the condition and the potential consequences, I dont  think  its unreasonable  to conclude this 
this was all emergency  treatment. Thats supported by the fact that it was recorded as such 
by the NHS in the discharge  letters. 
The letters from the consultant doesnt  change this  he explained how Mr N was admitted 
and the treatment, but none of the treatment received meets  the criteria of pre-planned non-
emergency treatment;  quite the opposite. Even the insertion of the line doesnt equate  to 
pre-planned treatment  covered by the policy as it related to the emergency treatment and 
doesnt appear to be the type of treatment eligible to be obtained privately under  this policy.
It isnt unfair  or unreasonable for Vitality to consider the medical evidence  and decide  that 
given the terms  and conditions of the policy, Mr Ns claim should be declined. And given that 
it did consider further medical evidence and contacted the NHS, I cant  say that its service  
has been unfair or unreasonable. I note that at one point non-medically qualified  staff wanted 
to accept the claim, but once the medical  evidence was reviewed, this view was over-ruled; 
this shows that Vitality had an open  mind.
Turning to the issue of whether Mr N was told that he needed  to take out a new policy to 
claim, I note that in none of the contact notes or call recordings available to me is this 
recorded. What  is recorded is a member  of staff, on being told by Mr N this happened,  
correctly agreeing that this wasnt correct and confirming that if the claim was eligible under 
the policy, it should be considered. And as the claim has been correctly  declined and Mr N 
didnt take out a new policy to have the claim  considered, I dont think any loss has occurred. 
And as Mr Ns upset is largely  about  his claim being declined,  I dont  think  any compensation 
for trouble and upset would be fair or reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN88667913my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vitality agreed with my provisional decision.  Mr N disagreed  and wanted  more time to review 
what I had said. But Mr N was asked to explain why he needed  more  time, and he didnt 
respond. Mr N did say that he would respond  by a particular date, but he didnt.
I remain of the view set out in my provisional  decision, and confirm  it as my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8866791