K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her payment protection  insurance  (PPI).
background
Miss P applied for a credit card in February  1999. Lloyds cant say when PPI was added  to  
Miss Ps account  but it wouldve been  between 1999 and January 2000.  
Miss P says she had very good sick pay and so didnt need the PPI. She says if Lloyds had 
made it clear  the cover was optional, she wouldve declined it.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ps complaint didnt uphold  it. Miss P disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Miss P she had a choice about PPI and get her agreement  
to it. Lloyds says its more likely than not it did this. But it hasnt got any paperwork or other  
records from the time to show  how it did so. And Miss P doesnt  remember much  about the 
sale. 
Where, as in this case, Ive got very little information  from the time of the sale (which isnt 
unusual or surprising when it was a long time ago),  I have to think  about whats most  likely to 
have happened, based on that information and also on what we know  about Lloyds usual 
process for selling PPI in this period. And Lloyds has shown us a sample  credit  card 
agreement where  its clear a consumer  would actively have had to agree to the PPI and also 
that its optional.  
To uphold  Miss Ps complaint on this point Id have  to think its more likely than not Lloyds 
didnt make it clear to Miss P she had a choice about PPI. And the information Ive got  
essentially, Miss Ps testimony  isnt strong  enough on its own and without anything else to 
back it up for me to think thats a fair and reasonable conclusion.  
On balance, looking at the limited information  Ive got, I think its more  likely  Miss P agreed 
to the PPI at time, knowing she had a choice  about it, and thats the reason it was added to 
her account.
Lloyds has treated the sale of Miss Ps PPI as if it recommended  it to her. So Lloyds needed 
to make sure it was right for her in her circumstances. From what  Ive seen of Lloyds PPI 
policies sold between 1999 and 2000,  and from the information Ive got from Miss P about 
her circumstances around this time, I think it was. I say this because:
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Miss P wouldnt have been eligible for the 
PPI. I also havent  seen anything to make  me think Miss P wouldve been affected by 
any significant exclusions or limitations  the policy she bought  might have had  for 
Ref: DRN82440592example, for known  medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements. So I 
dont think its likely  there wouldve been  anything to stop her claiming the full policy 
benefit had she needed to.
Miss P says she got very good sick pay and also had some savings. But I think the 
PPI could still have  given her a useful benefit if she couldnt  work, since it wouldve 
helped with her card repayments  for up to 12 months for each successful claim she 
made  which  is longer  than her full sick pay wouldve lasted. It would also have paid 
out on top of her sick pay and wouldve covered her in the same way if she lost her 
job.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Miss P couldnt afford the cover or that its 
cost made it unsuitable for her.
As well as making sure it was right for her, Lloyds also had to give Miss P enough clear 
information about the PPI for her to make an informed decision about  whether she wanted to 
buy it. I think its likely Lloyds didnt make some  things as clear as it shouldve  like the true 
cost and benefits of the policy and the things  it didnt cover.  But, as Ive said, I think its likely        
Miss P agreed to the cover knowing she had a choice about  it and I havent  seen anything to 
make me think it wasnt right for her in her circumstances. I think clearer  information from 
Lloyds would only have  confirmed this to Miss P and wouldnt have made  her change her 
decision.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss P because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss P about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Miss P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so  Lloyds Bank PLC does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss P any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8244059