K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr B says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
The policy was sold over 16 years  ago, so it isnt surprising that Mr B and Halifax  have 
divergent testimony about the events of the sale. I also have to take into account  that 
memories can fade over time. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory, I have  to make my decision on the balance of probabilities   that is, to decide 
what is most likely  to have happened. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this now,  many years  
later. I say this because  Ive been  given  a copy of the application form Mr B completed at 
the time.  I can see that PPI was selected  with a printed  X. Mr B thinks this 
demonstrates that the policy was not optional. Mr B also told us that he couldnt recall 
agreeing to the policy. Halifax  said Mr B agreed  to the policy after a discussion with the 
representative. Ive noted that the printed X on the form is to take the PPI and Mr B 
signed the form, which suggests his agreement to its contents. And Ive noted that the 
statements Mr B would  have  received show  that he was paying for Credit  Card 
Repayments Cover. So if Mr B hadnt agreed  to the cover I think the statements would 
have put him on notice he was paying  for something then that he now says he hadnt  
agreed to, and I think hed have raised  it with the business  many years before  he 
eventually did. So, I think it more likely that the business gained  Mr Bs agreement  to 
take the cover and made it clear  to Mr B that he had a choice about  taking  the policy.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr B. As this puts more responsibility  on Halifax  
for how it sold the PPI, Ive looked at the complaint on the basis advice was given. This 
means Halifax had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr B. And looking at his 
circumstances at the time I think it was. For example he was eligible for the policy and 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  from or limits to the PPI cover. And he seems to 
have had a need  for the cover.  I say this as whilst Mr Bs initial  sick pay was generous, 
after 16 weeks it dropped significantly and Mr B told us he had little in the way of savings 
to rely on in that circumstance, or if he lost his job. And this policy couldve covered 10% 
of his monthly balance  for up to 12 months. So as it wouldve paid in addition  to, and 
potentially for longer  than, any other  pay he may have received, I think  Mr B couldve 
found this cover  useful.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons, given above,  that I think the policy  was 
suitable, I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover.
Ref: DRN89008412This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr B back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Halifax will make arrangements to pay Mr B 
now Ive issued my final decision,  if it hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against  this complaint Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8900841