K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that a van he has been  financing through an agreement with Moneybarn No. 
1 Limited (Moneybarn) has not been  of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr A took receipt of a used van in December 2017. He financed  the deal through a five year 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of the supply the van was three 
years old and had already  completed 37,000 miles.  
Mr A says he noticed a few problems with the van when he first took receipt of it. He says 
there was some evidence  of a previous repair as the back  doors  would not close properly 
and he also noted  that there was a chip to the windscreen; the bumpers were damaged; the 
grill wasnt retained properly and there were issues with a fog light. But Mr A says he 
persevered and went ahead with the agreement.
In April 2018 Mr A experienced some problems with the van. The Engine Management Light 
(EML) illuminated and when a diagnostic failed  to identify the problem the warranty  company 
suggested the Diesel Particulate  Filter (DPF) would need regenerating. Unfortunately, this 
regeneration didnt work and the van was returned to Mr A still in limp mode.
He complained to Moneybarn  and they organised an independent  inspection  of the van. The 
engineer who completed  the inspection in late May 2018 said that:
the engine fault issues in our opinion would not have been present or developing (at the 
point of supply) as the vehicle could not have been driven  any distance if at all.
Moneybarn explained  that their responsibility  was only for faults  that were present or 
developing on the vehicle when they supplied it to Mr A. So they didnt  think they needed to 
take any further action.  Mr A subsequently failed  to make payments towards his agreement 
and the van was repossessed later that year. He was unhappy with Moneybarns response 
and he therefore  referred  his complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator thought that if the engine had been  failing at the point of supply Mr A 
wouldnt have been able to drive the van for the 9,500 miles he did in the 14 weeks  he had it 
before it broke down.  He noted  that the independent  inspector  hadnt thought  that was the 
case either so he didnt support Mr As complaint and didnt think  Moneybarn  needed  to take 
any further action.
But Mr A disagreed and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr A so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN88497012Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his van under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the van should have been of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances  would likely  include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the van was supplied to Mr A. The van here 
was around three years  old and had travelled 37,000 miles. So Id expect some wear and 
tear to have taken  place.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the van was faulty when supplied and this fault made the van not of satisfactory 
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right. 
But Moneybarns responsibility for the van is not unlimited.  Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
The relevant  legislation  says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
They are also not responsible for faults  accepted  when the van was supplied to Mr A and I 
think the faults Mr A noted with the fog lights, windscreen chip; bumper damage and door 
closure amongst  others that Ive highlighted in the background to this complaint, were  
examples of faults Mr A accepted. He has explained  that he noted the faults  but 
persevered with the deal.
The fault with Mr As van happened  after hed had the van for about four months so the 
relevant legislation would encourage us to consider the fault was there from the beginning.  
The onus would  therefore be on Moneybarn to demonstrate that wasnt the case and here I 
think theyve provided sufficient evidence to show that was the case.
They organised an independent inspection and its their assertion that this inspection  
demonstrates there  was nothing wrong with the van when it was supplied to Mr A. 
The independent inspector explained that he didnt think  the van could have been driven 
such a distance  with the engine management  light illuminated. I dont think  Moneybarn have 
been unreasonable when  accepting the independent  engineers opinion.  Hes an expert in 
these matters and whilst  the van had admittedly only been in Mr As possession  for about 
Ref: DRN88497013three months it had completed a significant mileage in that time. Mr A had covered about 
9,500 miles in that period. The average annual mileage is less than 8,000 miles. Id agree 
that this would not seem likely if there  was an engine management fault present or 
developing at the inception of the agreement. So I dont  think Moneybarn  need to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8849701