K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is complaining that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc (Barclays) say she took out three loans with 
them in 1997  and 1998. Mrs S says she has never taken out any loans with Barclays.  
background
Mrs S was approached by a complaints management company (CMC) to see if she wanted 
to make a complaint  about the mis-sale  of Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI). The CMC 
asked Mrs S to indicate who she had held different types of accounts  with. Mrs S said shed 
had accounts  with Bank A and Bank T. She also said shed  had a credit card with Barclays  
and more recently shed  bought a carpet on credit financed by another part of Barclays.  
The CMC then raised concerns about  the sale of PPI on Mrs Ss behalf with different 
businesses. 
Barclays searched its records  using  details provided  for Mrs S  including her name, 
address and date of birth. The search showed  that Mrs S, amongst other things  Ill refer to 
later, had held three loans with Barclays.
a/c number Started Ended PPI 
Loan 1 -764 04.12.97 31.12.97 Refunded when 
loan was repaid
Loan 2 -590 31.12.97 22.05.98 Did not have  
PPI 
Loan 3 -439 22.05.98 20.08.98 Complaint about 
PPI was upheld 
The sort code for all three loans was the same. 
Barclays upheld the complaint about PPI associated with Loan 3, but after carrying  out their 
calculations worked  out that the amount paid out under the PPI policy through successful 
claims was greater than the cost of the premiums  and interest  paid towards the policy. So, 
there was nothing to pay Mrs S. 
Mrs S says when she learned about these three loans  she raised her concerns with Barclays  
that she had never had loans with Barclays and she wanted to know more about  them.  
Barclays didnt set up a complaint for Mrs S in relation to these  concerns  and caused  Mrs S 
some inconvenience  by passing  her to various  departments within Barclays. 
Mrs S accepts she had a credit card with Barclays and said shed learned  that some  other  
finance shed  taken out through a third party to buy a carpet  had been  funded  by a different 
part of Barclays. 
Mrs S says she had only ever taken out any loans she had with institutions shed banked  
with  Bank A and Bank T. 
Mrs S also said she wanted to know more about the PPI claim that paid towards the 
outstanding balance on the loan.  Barclays gave Mrs S details of the insurer  to contact, but 
she says she didnt  find out any more information  from them  either. 
Mrs S completed a Subject Access Request  (SAR) with Barclays  to try and find out about  
the loan accounts  and Barclays  say she received the response  on 1 July 2019 but given 
the time that had lapsed since  the loans were taken  out, it had only been  possible to provide 
her with the Barclayloan  account ledgers. 
Ref: DRN89403262As Mrs S felt she wasnt  getting anywhere with Barclays,  she brought her complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator concluded that Mrs S was too late to bring  her complaint to us about 
whether or not she had taken out the loans.  Mrs S strongly disagreed. 
Our investigator also discussed with Barclays that their handling of Mrs Ss complaint had 
been poor and Barclays  offered to pay Mrs S £150  to recognise this. Mrs S didnt accept this 
as she explained  it wasnt about  the money. It was more  important for her to know what had 
happened with these loans.
my provisional findings summary
Mrs Ss complaint was passed to me to consider. I first reviewed whether Mrs S had brought  
her complaint to us too late. And having  looked at everything,  I disagreed  with the 
investigator and concluded this service  could look into Mrs Ss concerns. Barclays  accepted 
my findings  regarding this, and so I next considered Mrs Ss complaint that she had not 
taken out any loans with Barclays. Ive summarised my provisional findings below. 
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. And having done so, I explained I was not 
minded to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint for the following reasons: 
I was mindful the events in question happened over 20 years ago. So, it wasnt 
unreasonable that Barclays no longer held any original paperwork, or that someone 
may not recall events  from such a long time ago. 
I noted the CMC had not contacted Bank  A or Bank T. And there was no evidence 
Mrs S had held loans with either Bank  A or Bank  T rather than Barclays.  
Barclays search of their records also found a credit card (which  Mrs S accepts she 
held with Barclays), and a current account  in Mrs Ss sole name. These and the loan 
accounts had the same  branch  sort code. So, given Mrs Ss acceptance  of having 
had the credit card, it was fair to say Mrs S wouldve been familiar with this particular 
branch where  the loans were taken  out. 
The Barclays current account ledgers, didnt show  much  activity and the account 
appeared to have  been closed as dormant  around 2013. The ledgers showed 
payments to the Barclayloan from the current account in 1999  and 2000. Mrs S had 
queried how she could have had a loan with a bank where she didnt hold a current  
account. I explained sometimes current accounts  would be arranged at the same  
time as taking out a loan to facilitate  the loan payments.  So, given the above, this did 
seem a potential answer to Mrs Ss point. And I noted the Barclays current  account 
had been opened  in 1998 as well. 
I noted the ledgers for the third loan showed  that part of the advance was transferred 
to an account  with Bank T on 22 May 1998.  And that Mrs S accepted  she had an 
account with Bank  T. So, I couldnt exclude the possibility Mrs S may have had use 
of the Barclays  funds, albeit through a Bank  T account. 
Ref: DRN89403263I acknowledged that all the loans were  repaid. And that a successful PPI claim made 
payments towards the loan. I considered it very unlikely that someone taking out a 
loan fraudulently in Mrs Ss name  (as she alleges) wouldve repaid the three loans,  
let alone taken out insurance to protect  the payments.  
Mrs S queried how some information about  the loans had been available,  but other 
information wasnt. I commented that the lack of paperwork,  given  the time passed,  
wasnt unusual or that it should be indicative of the loans being fraudulent. Or that 
information was being hidden from Mrs S. Rather, it was simply that over time only 
high-level information had remained on the businesss systems. 
I explained it was very difficult for me to know exactly  what  had happened in 1997 
and 1998, so it wasnt possible to offer Mrs S an explanation  for what  took place. And 
that as Mrs S couldnt recall these loans, it was possible  there  would never be a way 
of knowing for certain what happened. 
I also responded to Mrs Ss submissions that there was no information from the 
insurer and her point  that she had not been sick in order to make a claim. Mrs S said 
she had a different  policy  with another bank anyway. I reiterated it would be very 
unusual for someone fraudulently taking out a loan in someone elses  name to be 
concerned with wanting to repay  the loan or protect it. And without any more 
information from either party about the insurance claims, I assumed there was, again, 
no paperwork available to shed  light on what exactly happened.  
I acknowledged Mrs S was looking for answers  rather than compensation, but 
explained I didnt  think it was possible to provide Mrs S with answers on this 
occasion. I pointed  out that I had to accept  that while the loans may have been taken 
out by someone  else, it was also possible  Mrs S had taken them out herself,  but 
understandably now no longer remembers doing  so. 
I reassured Mrs S that, in any event, all the loans had been closed and repaid. The 
last one closed  in 2001. And noted  Mrs S is not being chased for any outstanding  
debt in relation  to these loans and there was no indication of any other financial loss 
as a result of these  loans. I also noted there was no damage to Mrs Ss credit file as 
any reference to these loans would have  long ago been removed. 
Lastly, I explained it was up to Mrs S whether she wished to accept the £150 offered 
by Barclays in relation  to their poor handling  of her complaint. This was because it 
was not for this service to consider  concerns about how Barclays had handled the 
complaint itself as this is not covered under the rules this service follows.  I therefore  
did not look into this. 
responses to my provisional  decision 
Barclays did not reply to my provisional  decision by the deadline  given, so theres  nothing  
further for me to consider from them. 
Mrs S replied to my provisional decision and disagreed with my provisional findings for the 
following reasons:  
Ref: DRN894032641)She did not take out an account from Bank  T to pay Barclays.  In 2001  she made one 
payment through Bank T to Barclays to clear  the credit card and close it. And she 
had no other transactions with Barclays after that. 
2)Mrs S accepted that memories can fade over time, but disagreed this was applicable 
in her case. 
3)Mrs S seemed to suggest that it was unlikely different departments  in Barclays, 
including the fraud  department, had no records or details relating  to the three  loan 
accounts. Mrs S also said she keeps paperwork and had been  going through all her 
correspondence. 
4)In response to my comment  that it would be unlikely for someone  to take out a loan 
in Mrs Ss name  and then repay it, Mrs S said she believes this is all an 
administrative error and confusing for her. Mrs S said trying to clear  her name from 
false allegations (that she had these  loans) has all been  distressing for her and her 
health has suffered  for it. 
5)Mrs S said Barclays should be accountable  for the error and take responsibility for 
causing her stress due to them sending her details of the three loan accounts. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in light of Mrs Ss recent  comments, 
Ive reviewed everything once more.  
I am very sorry  to hear from Mrs S how much distress and worry this has caused her, to the 
point that it is affecting her health.  And my decision is not intended to add to Mrs Ss 
distress. However, having reviewed everything  once more, there is nothing Ive seen that 
persuades me to alter my initial conclusions.  
Firstly, I think Mrs S may have misunderstood my references to the current account  being 
used to repay the loan. The current account was taken out with Barclays around the same 
time as the loan with Barclays was arranged. Both the loan account and the current account 
are recorded  by Barclays as being in Mrs Ss name. I did not say that Mrs S had taken out a 
current account with Bank  T to pay the Barclays  loan. 
I really do appreciate Mrs Ss strength  of feeling regarding this matter, but as Ive already 
explained, this all happened a long time ago. There is very limited evidence available about 
what happened when  the loans were  taken out. And as Barclays  found these loans by using 
Mrs Ss details  to search for any accounts  with them, Im satisfied these loans were 
attributed to Mrs S. The fact that around  a similar  time Mrs S also held a credit  card with 
Barclays (which  she accepts), supports that she did have dealings with Barclays.  And as 
Barclays also found the credit card when carrying out the same search, Im satisfied 
Barclays used Mrs Ss correct details when searching. 
So, as I previously said, there doesnt appear  to be any clear evidence  about what happened  
when the loans were  arranged.  I am still of the opinion that it would be difficult  to understand 
why a fraudster  may have  gone to the trouble of taking out a loan in Mrs Ss name  and then 
Ref: DRN89403265gone on to repay it  including  taking out insurance  to protect those  payments. And I cant 
ignore the possibility that while someone else may have taken out these loans, its just as 
possible that Mrs S took out the loans  herself.  While this doesnt take away  the stress this 
has caused Mrs S or give her the answers shes looking for, I am very much aware that Mrs 
S is not being  chased for payment for any of these loans,  and there appear to have been no 
consequences in relation  to Mrs Ss credit file.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8940326