K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about the way British  Gas Insurance  Limited handled a claim made 
under a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr P held a Home Care  insurance policy with British Gas,  which  included  cover for repairs  to 
his plumbing.
In June 2018 Mr P reported a leak under his kitchen sink. An engineer  visited  and told Mr P 
the tap would need to be replaced.  Mr P says the engineer told him he could fit a standard  
tap but as the existing tap had been  specifically purchased to match the sink, Mr P wanted 
something similar. Mr P says the engineer  said he only had standard taps available  so if 
Mr P wanted  to buy a new tap to match the sink, he could fit it. The standard  tap was fitted in 
the meantime.
Mr P says he purchased  the tap but when the engineer returned to fit it he refused to do so 
as it wasnt compliant with the Water  Regulations Advisory Scheme  (WRAS) standards. 
Mr P complained. He said if hed been  told the replacement tap needed to meet certain  
requirements he wouldve  ensured the tap he bought to replace it met those standards. He 
said British Gas policy terms also failed  to explain this. Mr P asked a plumber to fit the tap 
for him and this cost £84. He felt British Gas should  cover this cost for the poor service.
British Gas offered  Mr P £50 in light of the policy terms not being clear about  the relevant 
standards. But Mr P didnt  accept this and referred  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint as she thought the engineer  shouldve  made it clear to 
Mr P that hed only be able to fit the tap if it complied with WRAS standards.  If hed done so, 
the investigator thought Mr P wouldve ensured  the tap he bought  met WRAS standards.  So, 
she recommended  British Gas increase its offer to £84 to cover the cost of Mr Ps plumbers 
invoice.
British Gas didnt  respond. So, the complaint was referred to me to make  a final decision.
I advised British  Gas that based on the evidence Id seen I was also inclined to uphold  the 
complaint. British Gas responded, saying  that its terms made it clear that it would only fit 
parts that it approved.  As, the tap Mr P had purchased didnt meet  WRAs standards, the 
engineer correctly declined to fit it. It said Mr P couldve returned the tap.
As no agreement could be reached, Im now providing my final decision on this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
The terms of Mr Ps policy say:
Ref: DRN81083792Spare Parts
Well provide replacements with similar  functionality but not necessarily  the same  features  or 
an identical  make  and model or type of fitting.  For example, we may replace a specific 
design of tap with a standard one from our range or replace electrical fittings with our 
nearest white, brass  or chrome version.  Or you can give the engineer a replacement  part 
that youve bought yourself and we approve...
As British Gas didnt  approve the replacement  tap Mr P provided (because it didnt meet 
WRAS standards), I dont  think it was unreasonable for the engineer to decline to fit it. But 
like the investigator,  I also think the engineer shouldve made it clear to Mr P that any 
replacement tap needed to comply  with WRAS standards. As this isnt mentioned in the 
policy terms, Mr P couldnt have known this. If the engineer had made this clear, Im satisfied 
Mr P wouldve  ensured the tap he purchased met this standard.
Ive considered British  Gas point that Mr P couldve returned the tap, purchased one that 
met WRAS  standards and the engineer  couldve fitted this one instead. But this seems 
excessive in the circumstances as it wouldve caused greater  inconvenience  to Mr P  he 
wouldve needed to return the tap, find a replacement and arrange  another  appointment for 
the engineer to fit it.
Overall, I think a fair resolution  to this complaint is to cover the cost of the plumbers bill to fit 
the tap  £84. I understand  British Gas sent Mr P a cheque for £50 in line with its earlier 
offer. If this has since been cashed  by Mr P, it should pay him a further £34. If not, 
British Gas should cancel this and issue a further payment for the full sum of £84.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mr P a total sum of £84 to cover  the cost he 
incurred fitting  the replacement tap.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8108379