K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the issues that theyve had with First Response Finance 
Limited relating  to a hire purchase agreement under which a car was supplied to them.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr and Mrs W under a hire purchase agreement  with First 
Response Finance that they signed in June 2016. They  havent  made  all of the required 
monthly payments  under the agreement and First Response Finance has accepted  reduced 
repayments from them. But Mr W says that he was told in November 2018  that it would be 
seeking repossession  of the car so he complained to it. It apologised for that and paid him 
£25 compensation  for the misinformation that he was given. He then made a subject access  
request but when  he received the information  it included information about another 
customer. It then provided the correct information to Mr and Mrs W. 
But they werent satisfied with First Response Finances  response  so complained to this 
service. They would  like it to clear  50% of the remaining  balance  of their account as they say 
that the compensation of £25 isnt sufficient.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He concluded that 
First Response Finance had acted appropriately  when  setting  up repayment plans 
throughout the agreement and in discussing the changes  in circumstances that Mr W had 
experienced. And he concluded that it had acted appropriately when Mr W was misinformed 
as it apologised  and provided compensation of £25 which he thought  was fair. He said that 
he appreciated that the information provided  in response to their subject access  request was 
supplied incorrectly but none of their data was shared with a third party and he didnt 
consider that First Response Finance need to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs W have  asked for their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  Mr W 
says that First Response  Finance  agreed  that more than one piece of incorrect  information 
was provided to them and theyre not accepting £25 as it's a pitiful amount. He says 
communication has broken down between them and First Response  Finance and the only 
way forward is a substantial amount  dropped  off the balance or they receive  a substantial 
amount to hand  the car back.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W entered into a hire purchase  agreement with First Response Finance  in June 
2016. They  agreed to make  42 monthly payments of £229.09 but theyve experienced some 
financial difficulties and havent been  able to make all of those payments. First Response 
Finance has accepted reduced payments from them and hasnt applied any additional 
charges or interest to their account. The adjudicator has set out a detailed summary  of 
Mr and Mrs Ws conversations  with First Response Finance about their repayments.
A lender is required to respond to a customers financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. That doesnt mean that its obliged to take any particular action in response 
to those difficulties  because whats appropriate in each case  will depend on the customers 
individual circumstances.  I consider that, by accepting reduced repayments from Mr and 
Ref: DRN89747702Mrs W and not applying  additional charges or interest, First Response Finance has 
responded to their financial  difficulties positively and sympathetically.  And Im not persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that it has acted  incorrectly in connection  with the 
repayment arrangements that have been agreed with them. 
Mr W says that he was told during  a phone call with First Response Finance in November 
2018 that it would be going  to court to get an order for the repossession of the car because 
of the arrears on their account. He complained about that and First Response Finance  
accepted that it had given  him incorrect information and that, because of the payments that 
theyd made,  it wouldnt  be seeking  possession of the car. It apologised for that and sent 
Mr W a cheque for £25.
Mr W also made a subject  access request  for information about the agreement.  He was sent 
incomplete information and the information  that he was sent included information about  
another customer. Mr W complained to First Response Finance  about that and it then sent 
him the information  that hed requested. 
First Response Finance accepts that it didnt properly  comply with his subject  access  
request and that it sent him information about another  customer.  But it then sent him the 
correct information,  there  was no significant  detriment to Mr or Mrs W and their information 
wasnt disclosed to any third party. So Im not persuaded  that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require  it to take any further action in response to the subject  access request or 
their complaint about it.
Mr and Mrs W say that they would like First Response Finance to clear 50% of the remaining 
balance on their account. But theyve made no payment to the account  since  October 2018, 
the arrears on the account in January 2019  were  £1,494.47 and they still have the car and 
are able to use it. I consider that First Response Finance has responded  to Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaints fairly and reasonably. So Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to take any further action  in response to their complaints. And I see no basis 
on which it would be appropriate for me to require it to write-off  50% of the outstanding  
balance on their account.
Mr W says that the relationship with First Response Finance has broken down. But the 
outstanding amount on the account  is now £ £4,243.55 and I consider that its fair and 
reasonable for it to seek repayment  of that amount from Mr and Mrs W (to the extent that its 
legally entitled  to do so). I suggest that Mr and Mrs W contact it to try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan for the amount that they owe to it. If they dont do so, I consider it to be likely 
that it will take further action to recover  the outstanding amount from them.  If theyre 
continuing to experience  financial difficulties,  its required  to respond to those difficulties  
positively and sympathetically.
Mr W says that First Response Finance has discriminated against him because  of his mental  
health issues. That didnt  form part of his original complaint  to this service  so Im unable to 
consider it as part of this complaint. But in considering Mr Ws complaint about the other  
issues Ive not seen anything to show that First Response  Finance was aware of Mr Ws 
mental health issues or to persuade me that it has discriminated against him or treated him 
unfairly because  of those  issues.
Ref: DRN89747703my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8974770