K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) didnt  refund  two 
payments that he made. 
background
In February 2019,  Mr C made two payments to a merchant using his Amex charge card. The 
two transactions  were  for €30,000EUR  and €25,434EUR. These were part payments 
towards a larger  purchase Mr C had made with the merchant. In summary,  it was the 
purchase, delivery and installation of a large number of furniture items.
After the items were delivered and installed, Mr C complained to the merchant to say that 
some of the items were missing, some  were broken, and some hadnt  been  installed 
correctly. He requested  a part refund from the merchant and for them to remedy the issues  
with the delivery.  The merchant agreed  to remedy the problems with the items and 
installation but didnt agreed  to a part refund. 
Mr C then raised a claim for a refund with Amex. He asked for both transactions to be 
refunded in full because  he said the merchant had breached the terms of the contract  he had 
with them.  As the purchase was made in the course of his business, the failure  with the 
delivery and installation had caused his business reputational damage and financial loss. He 
said the merchant  had failed to remedy the problems it said it would and hed had to make 
alternative arrangements to put right their mistakes. 
Amex processed a refund request through its chargeback process. The merchant defended 
the request by saying it had agreed to remedy the problems with the delivery and installation  
For this reason, Amex  said it couldnt  reasonably pursue the chargeback any further. 
Mr C responded to say that the merchant  hadnt attempted to put right the problems  it had 
caused. Amex  therefore  agreed to look at the chargeback again. However, the merchant 
responded to say that Mr C hadnt  returned  any of the disputed  items, so it wasnt 
reasonable for a refund to be issued. 
A number  of documents were  presented  to Amex from both Mr C and the merchant detailing 
their dispute,  including correspondence  from legal  representatives. Amex eventually  said 
that it couldnt reasonably pursue the chargeback any further  as the dispute  involved a 
number of different  items and issues and both sides were  making  complex legal arguments 
about the contract terms that had been  agreed. 
Further, it said that Mr C was seeking a full refund despite having successfully received most  
of the items, it therefore wouldnt be fair to agree to his request.  It said the chargeback  
process was intended to resolve straightforward billing disputes, but Mr Cs dispute  was far 
more complex and it would be better suited to other avenues, this is because the 
chargeback process  couldnt guarantee a fair resolution to the matter.  Amex did however 
agree that the service it had provided Mr C while dealing  with his dispute  could  have been  
better and offered him £50 compensation. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld in part. He agreed that the 
chargeback process  wasnt appropriate  for the dispute Mr C was trying to raise.  However, he 
thought that Amex ought to have  told him this much  sooner and told him to seek legal 
advice. He recommended  £200 compensation for the upset and inconvenience it caused by 
delaying things for Mr C. 
Ref: DRN88670682Neither Amex nor Mr C agreed. Amex said that it wasnt its place to advise Mr C about  
seeking legal advice and it acted in good  faith by processing the chargeback  when Mr C 
disputed the payments. Mr C said that £200  compensation  wasnt  sufficient considering  the 
significant financial loss hed suffered because of the merchants actions. 
As neither party agreed, the case was passed to me for a final decision. Before issuing a 
decision, I wrote to Amex  to explain that I agreed  it should pay Mr C £200 compensation but 
for different reasons  than our investigator gave.  
I said that I thought  Amex  could have handled Mr Cs dispute  better  as it was clear he had 
asked them to consider his claim  under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S75). 
However, despite this, Amex hadnt told Mr C a S75 claim couldnt be made using the type of 
account he held.  I said that Amex ought  to have been clearer  about the process  it was using 
to dispute his payment and what this meant.  Amex agreed with that recommendation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex considered Mr Cs dispute under its chargeback process.  This is a scheme which 
looks to resolve payment  disputes between card holders and merchants. The relevant 
chargeback scheme  in this case is run by Amex  and there  are set criteria for when disputes 
can be raised, such as the type of dispute  and time limits for raising them. Merchants 
wishing to accept  Amex cards as a form of payment for their customers need to agree to 
these scheme rules.  Given it forms part of the contract Amex has with its merchants, Amex 
needs to ensure it applies the scheme rules strictly.  
The chargeback process  works by Amex raising  a dispute with the merchant under one of 
the relevant chargeback ISO  codes. This ISO code is essentially the reason given for the 
chargeback. Each ISO code has its own criteria for what Mr C needed to have done or 
provided to support the chargeback.
The merchant is then given an opportunity  to defend  the chargeback. If the chargeback is 
defended, a further presentment of the chargeback can be attempted  if the consumer provides 
further evidence,  which the merchant is entitled  to also defend. The final step would be for the 
card scheme operator (Amex)  to arbitrate on the matter if no resolution can be found. 
Its important to note that Amex has no obligation to process a chargeback or pursue it 
further through the chargeback process. However, I would consider it good practice for it to 
pursue a chargeback when requested, as long as it was possible to do so (within the 
limitations of the scheme rules) and there  was a reasonable prospect of success. 
Mr Cs dispute involved non-receipt of some goods,  some defective goods and some goods  
not being installed correctly. The two ISO codes which may have been applicable here were 
called not as described or defective  merchandise  or goods and services not received, 
Amex processed the chargeback under the former.  Mr Cs dispute with the merchant was 
multi-faceted and clearly didnt neatly fit into either of those categories as neither could 
encompass all of the issues he had raised. 
Ref: DRN88670683However, despite this I think Amex  acted fairly  by processing the chargeback  and later, 
making a further  presentment to the merchant. This is because it was possible that the 
merchant might agree to the chargeback. After it became  clear  that the merchant wasnt  
going to accept the chargeback, I dont  think Amex acted unreasonably  by not proceeding to 
arbitrate on the dispute.  
I say this because  it was clear that the dispute  was complex and both parties were making 
legal arguments  about their rights  in relation to the contract they had entered  into. The 
chargeback process  is intended for quick informal resolution of straightforward payment 
disputes. As Ive mentioned above,  Mr Cs dispute  didnt neatly fit into any of the available  
ISO codes and ultimately Amex wasnt best placed  to arbitrate on what had developed into a 
complex and fiercely contested contractual dispute  between two parties. I therefore dont 
think it acted unfairly  in relation to the chargeback  process by not taking things further. 
Mr C initially raised his dispute saying he wanted to make a claim under S75. In summary,  
S75 sets out that in certain  circumstances the debtor (Mr C) can make a like claim against 
the creditor (Amex) for any breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier (the 
merchant). However, S75 only applies to certain  types of regulated  consumer credit  
agreements. 
Mr Cs charge card isnt a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  This means S75 doesnt 
apply, so I dont  think Amex acted unfairly  in not considering the claim in that way. Although  
the charge card isnt a regulated consumer credit  agreement, our service can still consider 
complaints relating to it. 
As Ive set out, Mr C asked Amex to consider his dispute under S75. However, Amex never 
told him it couldnt do this or explained why. It wasnt until our service was investigating the 
complaint did it become  clear. Mr C has clearly been concerned  about  his rights against  the 
merchant and it hasnt  been made particularly clear to him what  process his dispute was 
following and why. 
I note Amex has already  accepted some other services failings during the dispute process such  
as not arranging a call back for Mr C when it was promised.  The lack of clear communication  
about the dispute process will have  undoubtedly added to Mr Cs frustration, given how upset he 
was already over the merchants actions. Overall,  I think Amex  should  pay £200  compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mr C by its handling of the dispute. 
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, I think Amex  acted fairly in trying  to assist 
Mr C initially and did all it reasonably could  regarding  the chargeback process. However,  it 
could have explained its role and processes much  better in doing  so. 
Ref: DRN88670684my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct American Express  Services  
Europe Limited to:
Pay Mr C a total of £200  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8867068