K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about eight loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr S between March  2015 and 
April 2018. Mr Ss borrowing history  based on what Uncle  Buck provided is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
repayment*
1 09/03/2015 25/03/2015 1 £250 £284
2 17/04/2015 29/04/2015 1 £125 £138
3 26/05/2015 10/06/2015 1 £175 £220
4 10/06/2015 29/08/2015 3 £350 £163
5 05/09/2015 09/12/2015 3 £350 £165
6 09/12/2015 01/03/2016 3 £300 £138
7 10/03/2016 24/06/2016 3 £500 £234
Break in lending  next loan is start  of a new chain of lending
8 21/04/2018 31/10/2018 4 £200 £88
*these amounts have been  rounded up/down
Mr S has said Uncle Buck  did not lend to him responsibly. Uncle  Buck has said it had a 
robust process in place  and completed all the relevant checks before providing  the loans. 
In their most  recent assessment, our adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint in part and thought  
loan 3 and loans 6 to 8 should not have been  given.  Uncle Buck  disagreed so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN87538512the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S hasnt disagreed  with our adjudicators opinion on loans  1 and 2 and loans 4 and 5 so I 
wont be looking at these  any further  as there is no ongoing disagreement about them. But I 
will bear them in mind  when Im looking at Mr Ss other lending.  
Lending is unaffordable  if its clear the customers disposable  income  wasnt enough to make
the payments  for the borrowing at the time it was taken out. And I can see from what  we
know about Mr Ss finances at the time loan 3 was taken, that he had little disposable 
income.
As Ive said above,  in order for loan 3 to be sustainably affordable for him, Mr S
needed to be able to make  the repayments on time, while  meeting  other  reasonable
commitments and without having  to borrow  again.  I can see from the information  Uncle  Buck 
obtained before lending  loan 3 to Mr S he had little income left over after meeting  his usual
monthly living costs and credit commitments.
Mr S declared monthly expenses of £1,075 against  a monthly  income of £1,300  when taking 
out loan 3. This meant Mr S had £225 of disposable income. The repayment  for loan 3 was 
about £220 - that would leave him with just £5 for any unexpected expenses  and leaves 
almost no margin for error in terms of his declared expenditure.
Ref: DRN87538513Uncle Buck  had to make  sure the loan was sustainably affordable. So I think it ought to have
realised that leaving  Mr S with little or no disposable  income  (after  the loan repayment)
was most likely to cause him difficulties. So it was wrong to give loan 3.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr S, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Uncle Buck ought to have realised Mr S was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr Ss overall pattern of borrowing suggested that he had become 
persistently reliant on short-term loans.  Mr S had taken out six loans within  nine 
months and Mr S had been indebted  to Uncle Buck for this time. So Uncle Buck  
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr S was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that Mr 
Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ss first loan was for £250  and loan 6 was for £300.  At this point Uncle  Buck 
ought to have known that Mr S was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary  shortfall 
in their income but to meet an ongoing  need.  The amounts borrowed didnt 
significantly decrease over time.  
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle  Buck. Loan 7 
taken out 12 months after Mr Ss first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr S had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Uncle Buck  over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr S lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing for loan 6 and 
7 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ss ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Loan 8 was taken out two years after loan 7 so I am considering it as a new chain  of lending.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 8 would most likely  have shown  
that Mr S was having trouble in managing his money. Ive seen from the information  
provided by Uncle Buck that Mr S already  had a number of existing short-term credit 
commitments when  he applied for loan 8 and so was repaying other high-cost creditors. It 
was clear from this that Mr S wasnt using these high-cost loans to deal with a short-term 
cashflow problem. So, in these circumstances, Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was 
unlikely Mr S wouldve  been able to sustainably  repay loan 8  and any subsequent  loans.  
So Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint about  loan 3 and loans  6 to 8 and Uncle Buck should put 
things right.
Ref: DRN87538514putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan 3 and loans 6 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 and loan 8 from Mr Ss credit  file;
loans 6 and 7 being taken means  any information recorded about  them  is adverse. 
So all entries about loans 6 and 7 should  be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8753851