K821x#15complaint
Mrs K has complained about advice given by HDIFA (then part of Berkshire Financial
Advisers Ltd) to transfer the value of her deferred benefits in a former employers pension
scheme to a self invested personal  pension  (SIPP)  and invest in unregulated investments.
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice
HDIFA gave.
background
Ive considered Mrs Ks complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 20 November  
2020. Ive summarised  the findings  I reached  below. But Ill first recap the facts  and how our 
investigation progressed.  
Mrs K had deferred benefits in a former employers final salary pension scheme. She was
referred to a firm Ill call Firm A (an appointed  representative of a regulated  firm).  Firm A
didnt have the necessary permissions to advise on final salary pension  transfers.  So Mrs K 
was referred to HDIFA. 
In August  2012,  following  advice from HDIFA, Mrs K transferred the value of her deferred
benefits (£60,632.23) to a SIPP. On 16 November 2012 she invested £16,750 in Chateau 
De La Cazine, a resort development in France.  She also invested £28,706 in White  Sands, a 
country club in Brazil, on 20 November 2012.
Mrs K, through her representative,  complained to Meyado  in September  2016. Meyado  didnt  
uphold the complaint. It was referred  to us. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He explained that wed approached  Firm As principal 
whod told us it had no record  of Mrs K as a client of Firm A or having  received or been paid 
any fees in respect  of Mrs K. And it hadnt  been  able to find any trace of Firm As adviser  
arranging any investments or being  paid for doing so. 
The adjudicator upheld the complaint about  HDIFA. He said an unregulated introducer 
seemed to have  initiated things. But he couldnt advise on and arrange the transfer. HDIFA 
had done that. HDIFA should have had regard for the proposed  SIPP investments. The 
adjudicator referred  to the regulators January 2013 alert and the further  alerts  issued in 
2014 and 2016. Both the White Sands  and Chateau De La Cazine investments were  
unsuitable for Mrs K. HDIFA should have advised her not to give up her deferred final salary 
benefits to invest.  
Meyado didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. Amongst other  things it said our 
analysis of the factual matters  was flawed and wed made limited and inadequate enquiries 
about Firm As role, despite clear evidence  of its involvement, for example, emails dated  27 
July 2012 and 12 February 2013 (which Ive referred  to further below).  Firm As principals 
assertion that there were  no documents must be false. It should be possible to retrieve 
electronic records, even if attempts have been  made  to delete them.  Meyado  also said it 
wasnt fair and reasonable to hold HDIFA liable  in full when the money was invested on the 
advice of someone else. And that HDIFA had no control over,  but was being blamed  for, 
Mrs Ks investment decisions. Meyado said the Chateau De La Cazine investment hadnt 
been previously  mentioned  and intervening events must have made Mrs K aware  of, and 
caused her to make, that investment.  
Ref: DRN82175762We shared what Meyado  had said with Mrs Ks representative who made  a number of 
comments. In summary:
HDIFA was Mrs Ks adviser and it was up to HDIFA to provide her with suitable 
advice. Firm A didnt have  the relevant permissions to advise her. Theres no written 
advice from Firm A and no fees were paid out of Mrs Ks SIPP  to Firm A.  
HDIFA paid a referral fee to Firm A which presumably wasnt  paid until the transfer  
was completed and HDIFA itself had been paid. The email  of 27 July 2012 was an 
update on the transfer  and to give Firm A an indication of when it could expect to 
receive its fee. 
The email of 12 February 2013  was a response  to an email from HDIFA which  
confirmed that its adviser will only advise on the transfer and does not want  to be 
the adviser acting  on the new plan for investment and so Firm A had been asked to 
take over the agency. 
Mrs K had earlier been asked to sign a rescission letter. HDIFA emailed Mrs K on 10 
October 2012 saying  that it had recently dealt with the transfer and that, since then, it 
was changing  the way it dealt with these investment-linked transfers and now issued 
a letter  of rescission from Mrs K (but drafted by HDIFA) to the SIPP  provider to say 
that Mrs K took full responsibility for her new plan and HDIFA hadnt offered any 
advice on her chosen investment. HDIFA said that meant all correspondence would 
go to Mrs K and shed have more  control.  
It seems  HDIFA was trying to distance  itself from the investment. At no point did 
HDIFA tell Mrs K there was potentially a problem with the investment although it 
knew how she was intending  to invest. But, in any event, HDIFA recommended  the 
transfer. It was foreseeable that the money transferred into the SIPP  would end up in 
non standard  investments.
HDIFA should have  advised on the underlying  investment.  The SIPP  was set up for
no other reason  but to make  the investments. HDIFA  should have provided suitable
advice about the investments.
Suitable steps had been taken to investigate the part played by Firm A. The 
complaint had been brought  against the correct entity and HDIFA was 100% to 
blame for the advice given to Mrs K and her subsequent losses.
We made some further enquiries of Mrs K. We were aware that, in some  cases,  investors 
had received incentive payments. Mrs K confirmed shed received a payment of £1,500  on 
18 March 2013.  I think that was in respect of the White Sands investment. The money was 
spent on a family holiday. Mrs K said she wasnt told it was an incentive payment, just that 
shed be able to access some of her pension, although she knew  now that wasnt the case.
As to how it had all come  about,  Mrs K told us that a friend recommended someone who
Mrs K thought was a financial adviser but who was in fact an unregulated introducer. He
visited her on numerous  occasions and convinced  her to transfer from her former 
employers scheme. He told her the deferred pension wasnt  producing  a good enough 
return. And that the investments would be safe as we paid extra  for due diligence . Mrs K 
says she put her trust in him as she was a novice.  He convinced her that what  she was 
doing was for the best. In hindsight she wishes shed never met him and she now feels  
foolish for having  gone along with it.
She didnt  know the exact role of Firm A. She hadnt complained  to Firm A as she didnt 
know  where to start with a complaint. As soon  as there was a problem with White Sands 
the introducer had deserted her. Both investments were suggested by the unregulated 
introducer. It seems Mrs K didnt understand  the nature of the Chateau  De La Cazine 
Ref: DRN82175763investment. Theres an email sent on 6 November 2014 to Mrs K, in response to a query  
from her, from an after sales consultant, explaining how the investment - a fractional share in 
a spa suite in the Halcyon Retreat - was intended to work. Its complex,  particularly as Mrs K 
only paid part of the £25,000 purchase price. How the balance  was to be funded, and what  
Mrs Ks options were,  isnt straightforward.
Meyado also made some  further representations  about the High Courts judgment  handed  
down on 18 May 2020  in the case of Adams v Options SIPP  UK LLP (formerly Carey  
Pensions UK LLP). The claimant had argued  that the underlying investment had been 
manifestly unsuitable and the SIPP provider had a duty to advise on the underlying 
investment. The claim was dismissed.  The court  held that the SIPP provider didnt  owe a 
duty to advise on the underlying investments and there was no obligation to refuse  the 
claimants instructions  to transfer. Meyado argued the judgment was material to Mrs Ks 
complaint. Meyado said it would be making further  submissions.
In the provisional  decision  I issued on 20 November  2020 I upheld  the complaint. In brief my 
main findings were:  
was HDIFAs advice  suitable?
HDIFA couldnt fulfil its regulatory duties to Mrs K without considering  the overall
transaction. To determine  if the transfer  to a SIPP was suitable HDIFA had to
understand what the SIPP was going  to be invested  in. HDIFA knew  from the outset
that Mrs K intended to invest in an unregulated investment  White Sands. 
The regulators 18 January 2013  alert makes  it clear that HDIFA couldnt just advise
on the SIPP itself.  The underlying investment was part and parcel of the advice to
transfer. HDIFA needed to consider its suitability too. Even  if the introduction had
come from another  regulated firm and HDIFA had made  it clear  that it wasnt  giving
advice on the underlying  investment. 
what would  suitable  advice have been?
The suitability letter said Mrs K was a reasonably adventurous investor,  with 
previous experience of equity markets and that she was happy to accept a high 
degree of risk in exchange for the possibility of a higher pension  in retirement. But, 
from what Id seen,  she didnt have investment experience, much less of unregulated, 
specialist, non mainstream funds. I referred to what the regulator had said about  
such schemes being rarely suitable for retail investors and then usually only for a 
proportion of the investors fund. Here approaching half of Mrs Ks SIPP fund was 
invested in White Sands. The further  investment in Chateau De La Cazine increased 
that to about three quarters.
HDIFA did point out that Mrs Ks (White  Sands) investment strategy might not be 
advisable. The suitability letter referred to major concerns raised  by the regulator 
about individuals placing large  sums in very specialised  investments, such  as White 
Sands. And that Mrs K should  consider carefully  whether  she should place her entire 
fund in any one investment.  I thought  that underlined, if HDIFA had considered the 
investment, it would have recognised it was unsuitable for Mrs K, and certainly for a 
large part of her fund.  HDIFA thought it didnt have to consider the proposed 
investment but that was wrong.  The investment formed part and parcel of the 
transfer.
Even if Mrs K had indicated that she wanted  to take a high level of risk, HDIFA 
should have considered  if she had sufficient capacity for loss. And that she was fully 
Ref: DRN82175764aware of the nature  of the benefits shed be giving up. I noted  that some  of Mrs Ks 
answers on the pension review  questionnaire (PRQ)  suggested  she thought her final 
salary benefits were dependent on investment performance which wasnt the case.
As per COBS  (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 19.1.6G, HDIFA should have 
started by assuming  the transfer  wouldnt be suitable. Mrs K was a member of her 
current employers pension scheme.  She only worked  part time so any benefits shed 
accrue would  be limited. Her deferred benefits in her former employers represented 
eight years service and were her main pension provision. Her circumstances were 
such that she shouldnt have been  advised  to give up those valuable, guaranteed  
benefits in favour of a high risk, unregulated investment. She didnt have  the capacity 
for the loss that might, and in fact did, result.  
I noted that the advice process  had been  completed very quickly.  Mrs K only had a 
very limited opportunity to consider things carefully. And without the unregulated  
introducers influence  the documents she had to sign were  sent to her via him. 
I didnt think the letter of rescission which Mrs K signed changed anything. HDIFA 
advised Mrs K to transfer. HDIFA couldnt  avoid liability for its unsuitable advice 
because Mrs K signed that letter.  It predated  the investments but the transfer   which  
was to allow the investment in White Sands  had already been  completed.  
I didnt agree that I was reaching  an artificial  adverse finding against  Meyado. My 
conclusions reflected HDIFAs failure to meet its regulatory duties in advising Mrs K.
Meyado didnt argue that HDIFAs advice  was appropriate. It had said the issue  was 
the extent to which Meyado can be held responsible for separate advice about the 
investment given by another entity.  But it wasnt open to HDIFA to restrict its advice  
to the SIPP.  It had to consider the proposed  underlying investment too.
HDIFAs understanding was that Mrs K intended to invest the bulk of her fund in 
White Sands. But, in the event, another investment  was introduced  - Chateau  De La 
Cazine. It was unclear  why. Theres a note that the unregulated introducer called 
HDIFA on 17 September 2012  to say he wasnt sure what was going on with the 
White Sands investment and that he may decide to pull out. HDIFA then made  some  
enquiries of the SIPP  provider  and ascertained  that Mrs Ks payment (for the 
investment) had yet to be made. It looks like there was a problem between the 
solicitors acting in Brazil. The SIPP provider was awaiting confirmation  the payment 
could be made. HDIFA passed  that on to the introducer.
Mrs Ks investment in White Sands did go ahead. It may be that, as some problems 
had arisen, it was decided not to invest as much  in White Sands  as had originally 
been intended. Or the plan may always have been  to include another  investment. 
Its unclear what, if anything, HDIFA knew about the investment in Chateau  De La 
Cazine. HDIFA didnt  think  it needed to concern itself with the proposed investments. 
But, as Ive explained, HDIFA was wrong about  that. If HDIFA had made proper 
enquiries about the proposed investments it might have found out that it was also 
intended to invest  in Chateau De La Cazine.  But, based on what  HDIFA did know   
that Mrs K was dealing  with an unregulated  introducer and intended to invest the bulk 
of her fund in one high risk unregulated investment  HDIFA should have advised  
Mrs K against transferring. The money  was only available to invest, whether in White  
Sands or Chateau  De La Cazine, because HDIFA had recommended the transfer 
and facilitated  it. Chateau De La Cazine was another specialist, unregulated 
overseas property development and equally unsuitable for Mrs K. 
HDIFA argues it cant be held responsible for investments it didnt know  about.  But, 
based on what HDIFA did know about  Mrs Ks investment  proposals,  HDIFA 
shouldnt have  recommended the transfer.  The position might  be different if HDIFA 
had understood  that Mrs K intended to invest suitably but she then decided to invest  
differently. But here HDIFA  should  have known the investment Mrs K was proposing, 
Ref: DRN82175765for the bulk of her fund, was unsuitable. I didnt think it changed  things if Mrs K then 
actually invested  in two, equally unsuitable,  funds. 
 other parties involvement
I referred to DISP (Dispute Resolution)  3.6.1R.  It requires me to determine a 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  I also referred to DISP 3.5.2R,  DISP 3.5.3R and DISP 
3.6.3G. I agreed  the involvement  of other  parties was a relevant factor.  I noted  that 
Firm A was a regulated business, as was the SIPP provider. And an unregulated 
introducer was also involved. But a conclusion that, despite  the involvement  of other 
(regulated) entities, the complaint should be upheld against the party complained  
about, and that party  should  meet the consumers losses  in full, wont  necessarily be 
unfair or unreasonable.
If Mrs K had been unsure about  making a complaint  to Firm A her representative 
could have assisted  her. But the complaint was directed at Meyado. Presumably  
because of HDIFAs central part in the matter  it advised Mrs K to transfer. 
I hadnt ignored Firm As involvement.  Or that of the unregulated introducer. I 
understood Meyados argument  that Mrs Ks losses arose  from the investments and 
not the transfer or the SIPP  itself. But, if the transfer hadnt happened  and the SIPP 
hadnt been set up, Mrs K wouldnt have been  able to make the White Sands and 
Chateau De La Cazine investments.  On that basis, HDIFAs role was instrumental. 
It was possible that Firm A gave advice about the investments. HDIFA understood 
that, once the transfer had been completed. Firm As adviser would liaise  with the 
unregulated introducer  to arrange the purchase of the White Sands  investment. That 
didnt mean Firm A did give advice.  From what Id seen and what Mrs K has said, it 
was all initiated and driven by the unregulated introducer and he suggested both 
investments. It also seems he was instrumental in making  the investments once the 
money was in Mrs Ks SIPP.
As to what Meyado  had said about requesting all relevant documentation from Firm 
A, wed made enquiries and Firm As principal had said there was no record  of any 
advice being given or any advice  fee having  been paid. But wed seen some emails 
to Firm A. I took Meyados point  that there could be some  electronic record  of emails 
even if (and for what might have been entirely  legitimate reasons)  theyd been  
deleted and so hadnt come to light in an initial search. 
But I didnt think the emails Id seen were  particularly  significant. They  appeared to 
show that HDIFA kept Firm A informed as to progress. Firm A got a referral fee paid 
out of HDIFAs fee, which  was only paid once the transfer had completed.  Firm A 
would want to know when that was and when it was going  to be paid.  I thought that 
largely explained the emails set during July 2012.  From the emails  exchanged on 13 
February 2013, it seems  that a regulated adviser  needed to confirm that investment 
advice had been given. HDIFA wasnt prepared to do that as its position was that it 
wasnt advising on the investment, just the SIPP. So Firm A was approached but I 
dont know what the outcome  was. 
None of that showed Firm A did give investment advice. If Firm A had issued a
recommendation letter than Id expect  Mrs K to have  retained it but she hasnt 
produced one. And, when she had queries about the Chateau De La Cazine 
investment in 2014, she didnt direct them to Firm A  which Id have thought shed 
have done if Firm A had advised her to make that investment.
In any event, even  if Firm A (or indeed the unregulated entity  even though it couldnt 
lawfully have given  advice) had advised Mrs K, and in the strongest possible terms, 
to invest in White Sands,  my decision would have been the same. Mrs K had 
Ref: DRN82175766deferred benefits in a former employers defined benefit scheme. Firm A wasnt  
competent to advise  on transferring those  benefits.  Firm A didnt have the necessary 
regulatory permissions.  Firm A had to refer the matter  to HDIFA.
HDIFA had the requisite permissions, expertise and responsibility to advise Mrs K 
properly on the overall transaction.  Its role was pivotal, since the eventual  
investments were wholly contingent  on the transfer  taking  place.  HDIFAs advice that 
Mrs K transfer to a SIPP so she could invest in a high risk, unregulated, illiquid 
investment was unsuitable. But for the transfer  Mrs K couldnt  have invested  as she 
did.
My starting point as to causation was that HDIFA advised Mrs K to transfer. So it was 
responsible for the losses shed suffered in transferring  to the SIPP  and investing in 
White Sands and Chateau De La Cazine. That wasnt  wrong  in law or irrational but 
reflected the facts  of the case  and HDIFAs pivotal part in the matter.  HDIFA could  
have prevented the investments. Instead  it facilitated them,  having  given unsuitable 
advice that Mrs K transfer. She was only able to invest in White Sands and Chateau  
De La Cazine) because HDIFAs unsuitable advice unlocked the money from her 
former employers pension scheme. The transfer  itself was unsuitable - and Meyado 
hadnt argued otherwise.
responsibility for underlying investments
HDIFA couldnt advise  on the transfers to a SIPP without considering the intended
underlying investment. It wasnt the case that HDIFA had no control  over but is being  
blamed for Mrs Ks investment decisions.  Shed been referred  to HDIFA for specialist 
advice about if she should give up valuable deferred  defined benefits and invest  in a 
high risk, speculative  investment. HDIFA gave unsuitable advice and is responsible  
for the consequences  of that. The outcome wouldnt have been different if Mrs Ks 
investment strategy  had been reviewed over the years.  The White Sands and the 
Chateau De La Cazine  investments were  illiquid  throughout.  Any later advice to 
invest differently wouldnt  have made any difference.
Mrs Ks representative had suggested  that HDIFA was aware, from the telephone call 
with the unregulated introducer on 17 September 2012 (before Mrs Ks White Sands 
investment was made) that there  was an issue with the investment. But, from what  
the SIPP provider  told HDIFA,  it seems it may have been more  of an administrative 
issue. Im not sure that, of itself, meant that HDIFA should  have  told Mrs K not to go 
ahead. But nothing turned  on this anyway, given my view is that White Sands was 
unsuitable in any event.
compensation
I didnt see that HDIFA was simply arranging the transfer. HDIFA advised  on whether Mrs K 
should transfer. If that advice was unsuitable I didnt  see why HDIFA shouldnt be 
responsible for Mrs Ks losses in consequence of that unsuitable advice  Mrs K couldnt 
have invested  as she did if she hadnt  transferred. My proposed redress wasnt wrong in law 
or irrational  but reflected the facts of the case and HDIFAs pivotal part in the matter. If 
Meyado considered that others have some responsibility in the matter, it was presumably 
open to Meyado to pursue  those other parties.  I didnt think, if Meyado met Mrs Ks losses in 
full, shed object  to assigning her rights  to Meyado.
what would  Mrs K have done  if HDIFA had given her suitable  advice?
Ref: DRN82175767My starting point as to causation was that HDIFA gave unsuitable  advice to transfer  
and so is responsible for the losses flowing  from the transfer including, for the 
reasons Id explained, Mrs Ks investment losses. But there was an argument that 
Mrs K may have gone  ahead anyway and even  if HDIFA had advised her against. 
Mrs K had said the whole process  was initiated and driven by the unregulated 
introducer, who I assumed was persuasive  and persistent.  But HDIFA knew  an 
unregulated introducer  was involved. HDIFA should  have realised that what Mrs K 
had been told about the White  Sands investment might  have been  very positive. 
HDIFA should have  considered the investment and told Mrs K she shouldnt  invest   
because it was too risky and she might lose all the money shed put in. That would 
have put into context what Mrs K may have been  told (by the unregulated introducer) 
about the investments prospects and risks. The warning in the suitability letter (about 
not placing large amounts in specialist investments) wasnt  the same as clear and 
direct advice  that transferring to a SIPP to invest in White  Sands wasnt  suitable. 
Mrs K had been referred  to HDIFA for specialist advice. She had to get regulated  
advice from a firm that had the necessary  permissions to advise  on defined benefit  
transfers. Firm A didnt. And the unregulated  adviser couldnt  advice either.  The 
transaction  the transfer and the investments  hinged on HDIFAs advice. HDIFA 
were the experts  and had the requisite skill, experience and regulatory permissions 
to advise on defined  benefit transfers. 
I thought Mrs K would  have placed  significant weight  on what  HDIFA said. Shed 
have been under  pressure from the unregulated introducer to go ahead. But I didnt 
see that shed  have ignored  advice  from a specialist, regulated adviser in favour of 
what an unregulated  introducer had suggested. I thought it was more likely  shed  
have heeded formal advice from a regulated adviser. Especially  as it seems she was 
hesitant anyway.  Shed  said she didnt  immediately agree to what  the unregulated 
introducer was proposing.  She says he visited her several times  before she agreed to 
transfer. I think advice  from HDIFA that what the unregulated introducer was 
suggesting was unsuitable and too risky would have made Mrs K think again about  if 
shed been right to be persuaded  into doing what the unregulated introducer  had 
suggested. I thought shed have  reconsidered.
Mrs K did receive a payment of £1,500. Shes said it wasnt  referred to as an 
incentive payment  and she understood it was money in her pension  that she was 
able to access although she knows now that wasnt the case. The payment wasnt  as 
large as in other cases Ive seen. But it wasnt an insignificant  sum. It allowed Mrs K 
to pay for a family  holiday, so the offer of a payment  would  have been appealing.  But 
I couldnt see, given the relatively  modest amount, that it would have been a 
determining factor. The PRQ recorded that Mrs K (and her husband)  had disposable 
income of £1,000  a month. So, although their circumstances may have been  
relatively modest, they werent struggling financially. Overall I didnt see any reason 
to say Mrs K would still have gone  ahead if HDIFA had advised her against.
And, if shed wanted to proceed  anyway, HDIFA would have needed to have treated 
her as an insistent client. HDIFA may not have been willing  to act on that basis.  Even  
if it was, following the correct procedure for insistent clients would  have meant that 
HDIFA would have  had to discuss with Mrs K why she wanted to go ahead despite 
specialist advice  against - because the risks were too high  and record her reasons. 
I thought that wouldve concentrated Mrs Ks mind  on whether it was really  advisable 
to transfer and give up the security  of a final salary  arrangement  in favour  of benefits 
that were dependent on investment returns from a high risk, unregulated and 
speculative fund.  And, if HDIFA wasnt prepared to process the transfer  on an 
insistent client basis, Mrs K would have needed  to have  found another adviser who 
presumably would have given  her suitable  advice  that she shouldnt transfer.
Ref: DRN82175768Meyados more recent comments
Meyado had referred to the case of Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP. Meyado  did indicate
that it wished  to make further comments about the case. Wed  allowed Meyado ample time
to do so. But we have to be fair to both parties. I didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable to
proceed in the absence  of any further  detailed submissions about the case and when I didnt
see that it was relevant.
First it relates  to a SIPP providers obligations,  whereas  Mrs Ks complaint is made against
her independent financial adviser. Secondly,  the issue  in the court  case was the extent, if
any, of the SIPP providers  obligations in an execution only transaction.  Here  HDIFA was
providing regulated  advice. Further,  the court case involved a personal  pension. In the
present case HDIFAs advice was in respect of the transfer of the value of Mrs Ks benefits
in her former employers  defined benefits  scheme. I didnt see there  was anything in the
Adams v Carey  judgement which was obviously relevant  to the present case.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs Ks representative said Mrs K agreed with my provisional decision. Enquiries were being  
made of the SIPP provider as to whether the SIPP could be closed on the basis that the 
White Sands and the Chateau De La Cazine investments  had no value. Ive seen, in other 
cases, that the White Sands investment has been  deemed as having zero value. But I wasnt  
sure about  the other investment. Mrs Ks representative has now confirmed that the SIPP 
provider isnt willing to allow  Mrs Ks SIPP to be closed.     
Meyado didnt agree with my provisional  decision. In summary Meyado said:
Mrs Ks decision to open a SIPP and transfer the value of her deferred  pension
benefits was made  with assistance and/or advice from a number of entities,  not just
HDIFA. Id continued  to ignore the other entities involvement, even though it was
factually undeniable that Firm A (a regulated  entity) was materially involved.
That wasnt fair or reasonable but irrational. Our unwillingness  to look into the
relationship between Mrs K and Firm A - which was materially involved in advising
Mrs K to invest  in the illiquid investments at the heart of her complaint and (once the
SIPP was open) was to advise on her planned  investments,  meant my decision was 
being made in the light of a deliberate choice to exclude relevant  matters. The
requirement, under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), to take
into account all the circumstances  means  the actions of other entities with whom
Mrs K interacted as part of her decision making  cant be excluded.
Our approach suggests, where  multiple  entities (regulated or otherwise and here
Firm A was regulated) are involved, well disregard all but the one at which the
complaint is explicitly  directed and hold that firm accountable for all failings, 
irrespective of where liability should properly  lie. Entities are at the mercy of who a 
complainant happens to name on the complaint  form and when many complainants  
wont have a true understanding of the roles and responsibilities of those with whom  
theyve dealt. Thats contrary to our obligations  under  FSMA and demonstrably unjust 
to one or more parties.
That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Our reluctance to examine Firm As
involvement has meant that key documents and evidence have been unavailable to
Meyado and us. Our enquiries have been at best incomplete and Meyados ability to
defend itself has been seriously impaired.
Ref: DRN82175769It had led to a fundamental error  as to causation. My decision was based on the
premise that, without  HDIFAs involvement,  the investments - and so Mrs Ks losses -  
wouldnt have occurred.  That oversimplifies the true position and fails properly to take 
into account both Mrs Ks decision to invest and that it is the investments, and not the 
SIPP, which  are the primary cause of her losses. The decision also disregards how 
Mrs K held herself out to HDIFA.
Meyado highlighted sections of my provisional  decision.
Mrs K had already  decided to transfer  her existing  pension before HDIFA was
involved. Her determination  to transfer  cant have been influenced by HDIFA. And,
following the transfer, Firm A was to advise on the investment. My decision was
irrational and relied on speculation.
The correct factual  position was that an entity  other than HDIFA was the advising
entity. Our unwillingness to investigate other entities involvement properly or at all
evidences irrationality and unfairness. We hadnt properly considered  whats  fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Id conceded  that Mrs K had received an incentive payment  of £1,500. She was in 
desperate need of those funds. It was unfounded speculation to dismiss the incentive
payment to conclude that Mrs K wouldnt have proceeded  in any event. Its irrational,
when the weight of evidence overwhelmingly points  to the conclusion Mrs K would
have proceeded  with her chosen investment come  what  may.
It must  be accepted  as a matter of fact that an entity other than HDIFA actually 
advised on the material investment and that HDIFA had no involvement in the 
decision to invest in White  Sands. Its difficult,  if not impossible, to say HDIFA had 
knowledge of, and should take the blame  for, an investment decision made after 
HDIFAs involvement ceased and when HDIFA didnt and couldnt have had any 
influence or control over the ultimate investments.
It was conjecture to say, if HDIFA had advised  against transferring, Mrs K would
have thought again. Its at odds with the evidence as to Mrs Ks determination not to
heed warnings  and ignores the fact that she ultimately invested in a product in which
HDIFA had no involvement.  And Id disregarded  Mrs Ks assessment of her own
investment experience and attitude to risk.
Id referred to the regulators alert dated 18 January  2013.  But Id conceded  that dealt
with where an adviser took on a client from an unregulated introducer, and where the 
adviser was the first and only interface with the client.  HDIFAs situation was 
different. I hadnt attempted  to deal with that key distinction.
In conclusion Meyado  said my decision was unfair, unjust and irrational. Nothing
should detract from its sympathy  for Mrs K. Shed suffered loss as a result of
investing (on the advice  of others) in investments which had failed. But my decision
failed properly to appreciate causation  and reliance issues.  Based  on the information
wed considered   or chosen not to consider  the decision was unfair  and unjust in
apportioning the entire responsibility for Mrs Ks losses  on Meyado and didnt meet
our obligations  under FSMA.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. And, as set out
above, Ive paid attention  to the relevant  DISP  rules. Ive also carefully considered  Meyados
Ref: DRN821757610comments in response  to my provisional  decision.
Generally what Meyado  has said isnt new. Meyados main point remains the involvement of
others and, in particular,  Firm A. I dont agree we havent made sufficient enquiries about 
that. Or that Ive misunderstood  or ignored the part played by Firm A (or indeed  the 
unregulated introducer) such  that my decision cant properly be said to have taken into 
account all the circumstances of the case as required by FSMA.
Meyado says our reluctance to examine Firm As involvement means that key documents
and evidence hasnt  been made available. But Mrs K hasnt said Firm A gave advice. She 
hasnt produced any report or other  documents from Firm A indicating  that investment advice 
was given. And, as Ive explained, we did ask Firm A at the outset if it had any record of any 
dealings with Mrs K. Firm A was unable to locate anything. 
But weve seen some emails, some of which were  apparently sent or copied to Firm A, and 
which didnt come to light when Firm A checked  its records. I presume that was because 
theyd been deleted. If so that wouldnt necessarily have been for any untoward reason. For 
example, if all Firm A did was introduce Mrs K to HDIFA, then I dont see thered be any 
need for Firm A to retain emails or other  records once its referral fee had been paid.  
Meyado hasnt, in responding  to my provisional  decision, mentioned the emails.  But, for 
completeness, Ive set out what Ive seen (which  includes email  exchanges  with the 
unregulated introducer) and my further  observations.  
Emails sent by HDIFA on 12 July 2012 to the unregulated introducer, thanking  him 
for a new case and asking  him to confirm if the intended investment is White Sands 
and to Firm A, saying  that HDIFA had received a new case from the unregulated 
introducer, a White Sands investment. 
Those emails are consistent with what isnt in dispute  that Firm A introduced Mrs K 
to HDIFA. Here the referral may have come  direct from the unregulated introducer  
who worked with Firm A. Id assume  that was because time was short before the 
transfer value  expired  (on 30 July 2012). Whatever  the position,  Firm A was credited 
with the referral and so received a fee.
Emails from HDIFA sent to the unregulated introducer on 16 July 2012, enclosing the 
paperwork for Mrs K to sign for the transfer  to go ahead;  26 July 2012, saying HDIFA 
hadnt received  Mrs Ks documents: and 27 July 2021 (copied to Firm A), confirming  
the documents had now been received and discharge forms sent to the ceding 
scheme. 
I think, and as Mrs Ks representative has suggested, the email copied to Firm A was 
to update it on the transfer and give an indication of when  Firm A could expect to 
receive its referral fee. 
An email from HDIFA to Firm A on 30 July 2012  enclosing a copy  of the suitability 
report for Mrs K for [Firm As] records. 
I dont think that, on its own, demonstrates that Firm As role was other than an 
introducer. 
Ref: DRN821757611Emails from HDIFA to the introducer  on 9 August  2012,  referring  to an update from 
the SIPP provider  which indicated  that the transfer  funds had been received and the 
commission (due to HDIFA) was due to be paid and 15 August 2012, confirming the 
transfer value  paid and the amount available for investment after deduction of 
HDIFAs fee. 
I dont see anything turns on those  emails as far as Firm A is concerned.  They 
suggest it was the unregulated introducer who was arranging the investment(s). 
An email from HDIFA to the introducer  on 12 September 2012, asking him to get 
Mrs K to contact the SIPP  provider  about  how the funds  for her investment should be 
sent.
 
That also indicates  it was the unregulated introducer, and not Firm A, who was 
dealing with the investment. If Firm A had given investment advice, then Id have 
expected Firm A to have been involved in making the investments on Mrs Ks behalf. 
Instead it seems it was the introducer. Theres also the telephone conversation  on 17 
September 2012 between  the unregulated introducer and HDIFA from which it again 
appears that the investment was being  dealt with by the introducer. 
Emails on 12 February 2013 between HDIFA and an associate of the unregulated 
introducer.
Firm A is mentioned. It seems the introducer  needed  certain documentation. Im not 
sure why that was, given  that the investments had been made some months earlier. 
It looks like HDIFA  forwarded copy documentation to the associate who then emailed  
again to say shed been informed by Firm As adviser that a wet signature was 
required and asking  HDIFAs adviser  to do that and forward  it to Firm As adviser.  Im 
not sure what that was all about. I can see it might indicate some continued 
involvement on Firm As part. But it post dated,  by some months, the investments in 
White Sands and Chateau De La Cazine. I dont think it shows  that Firm A had given 
earlier investment advice.
 
I note that HDIFA also told the associate  that difficulties had arisen with new cases 
because SIPP providers  were insisting that investment advice is to be given and 
HDIFAs adviser didnt want to be the acting agent on the new plan for investment. 
So HDIFAs adviser had asked Firm As adviser  if he was able to do that but HDIFA 
hadnt yet had a reply. It seems HDIFA was to discuss  things further  with Firm As 
adviser later that week and how we [I assume thats  HDIFA, the unregulated 
introducer and Firm A] are all going  to work together . 
Again I dont see that shows  Firm A gave  investment advice in Mrs Ks case. Rather 
it suggests that (regulated) investment  advice  hadnt  been  given which  was 
acceptable to SIPP providers at the time but, going forwards, wouldnt be.  
But I mention all of that somewhat in passing.  Im looking at Mrs Ks complaint about HDIFA. 
As things  stand, she hasnt made any complaint about Firm A. I dont think  Im wrong  to 
focus on what HDIFA did or didnt do. 
The central point  is that Mrs K had deferred benefits in a former employers final salary  
pension scheme. Firm A couldnt advise about that and referred  her to HDIFA. Theres  no 
dispute that HDIFA did advise Mrs K to transfer  to a SIPP. HDIFA set up the SIPP and 
Ref: DRN821757612arranged the transfer. Ive acknowledged  its possible  that Firm A gave advice about the 
investments. And (unregulated) advice may have  been given too. But theres no dispute  that 
HDIFA did give advice. HDIFA thought it could limit its advice to the transfer and the SIPP.  
But, as Ive explained, its understanding was wrong:  HDIFA needed  consider  the proposed 
investment too.
Even if Firm A (or indeed  the unregulated entity  even though it couldnt lawfully  have given  
advice) had advised Mrs K to invest in White Sands, my decision would have been the 
same: Mrs K had deferred benefits in a former employers  defined benefit scheme. Firm A 
wasnt competent to advise on transferring  those  benefits. Firm A didnt  have the necessary 
regulatory permissions.  Firm A had to refer the matter  to HDIFA.
Ive focused on HDIFAs own responsibilities  as the only business involved with the capacity
to unlock the funds held in Mrs Ks defined benefits  scheme.  HDIFAs role was pivotal,
since the eventual  investment  was wholly contingent  on the transfer  taking place. HDIFAs
advice that Mrs K should transfer to a SIPP so that she could invest  in a high risk,
unregulated, illiquid investment was unsuitable.  But for the transfer  Mrs K couldnt  have
invested as she did  whether in White Sands or Chateau  De La Cazine. 
I dont agree that well always  disregard the involvement of any other entities and hold the
business at which the complaint is explicitly directly responsible  for all failings, irrespective of
where responsibility might properly  lie. I agree that a complainant  wont  always  understand 
the different  roles  and responsibilities  where  more than one party  is involved. But it was 
HDIFA who gave the advice to transfer. Its role was central. I dont think  concentrating on 
whether the advice HDIFA  gave was suitable is unfair or unjust. Rather, and as Ive said,  it 
reflects HDIFAs central and pivotal role in the matter. As Ive made clear, and regardless of 
anyone elses part in the matter, HDIFA should have taken into account  the proposed 
underlying investment when it was advising on the transfer.
I also dont agree that Mrs K, before HDIFAs involvement, had made a firm or irrevocable 
decision to transfer  which couldnt have been influenced by HDIFA. Or that it wouldnt have
made any difference if HDIFA  had advised Mrs K against transferring. I set out in my 
provisional decision why I thought shed  have placed weight on what  HDIFA had said.  
Particularly as it seemed  it had taken some persuasion on the part of the unregulated 
introducer to get Mrs K to agree to transferring and investing as she did. I also explained 
why, in practical terms, it wouldnt have been  straightforward for her to have just disregarded 
HDIFAs advice and proceeded anyway.  I maintain, if HDIFA had advised Mrs K against, 
shed have thought again. 
Meyado says it was the investment and not the transfer that caused  Mrs Ks losses.  But
HDIFAs advice meant  Mrs K was able to access her pension fund to make the unsuitable  
investments in White  Sands and Chateau  De La Cazine. She didnt have  any other funds 
she couldve  invested. And, if HDIFA had said she shouldnt do it, then Mrs K wouldve 
needed to have overcome other hurdles to go ahead. As things stood, HDIFAs unsuitable 
advice made  it easy for Mrs K to proceed  and didnt give her any reason to question  whether 
what she was planning was really advisable. I dont  think thats  an oversimplification.  As Ive 
said I think it reflects HDIFAs central  and pivotal role.
Meyado asserts  that Mrs K was in desperate need of the incentive payment which Id said
it was fair to assume shed received. But, as Ive said above,  the PRQ  indicates differently. It 
suggests that Mrs K and her husband were  comfortable and had significant monthly 
disposable income. Further, and in any event,  I dont see that Mrs K would have  been  willing  
Ref: DRN821757613to jeopardise a pension  fund in excess of £60,000  in return  for an immediate cash payment 
of £1,500. 
Meyado says HDIFA cant be blamed for any investment decisions made after its
involvement ceased and when HDIFA didnt  have any influence or control over the ultimate
investments. But its clear that HDIFA knew from the outset that the reason for the transfer 
was to invest in White Sands. HDIFA also knew that Mrs K intended  to invest  a large  amount 
 the bulk of her fund  as evidenced  by HDIFAs warning to Mrs K. HDIFA may not have 
known that, instead of investing just in White  Sands, Mrs K invested  in Chateau  De La 
Cazine too. But that fund was unsuitable too  it was another  unregulated overseas property 
scheme. Mrs Ks pension fund was only available to be invested in those unsuitable  funds 
because shed transferred, on advice from HDIFA, to a SIPP. 
I note what Meyado says about Mrs Ks attitude to risk. But I explained in my provisional
decision why I didnt  think that was a credible  assessment. And I maintain that HDIFA should 
have explored  with Mrs K if she really  wanted,  and could afford, to take a very high level of 
risk with her main  pension  provision. In my view, Mrs K didnt have  the capacity for loss that 
could result. She should have been  advised against investing any part of her pension  in 
White Sands (and/or  Chateau De La Cazine)  and to retain her deferred benefits in her 
former employers scheme. 
 
Meyado also says that the regulators alert deals  with the situation where an adviser takes
on a client from an unregulated introducer.  But it seems that was the case  here anyway. The 
PRQ shows the unregulated introducer as the agent. And Ive referred to the email dated  12 
July 2012 to the unregulated introducer thanking him for a new case. 
But even if the introduction hadnt come from an unregulated introducer, HDIFA knew that an 
unregulated introducer was involved  the emails Ive referred  to above clearly evidence  
that. I dont  think there can be any argument  that the regulators alert wasnt relevant here. 
But, in any event, it remains the case that it wasnt open to HDIFA just to advise on the 
transfer  it had to consider the proposed  underlying investment too. 
The regulator issued  a further alert on 28 April 2014.  Again it didnt follow  the introduction  of 
new regulations  but restated the existing position. It included the following:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  will transfer or
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the
overall transaction, that is the vehicle and the wrapper and the expected  underlying
investments and whether or not such investments were regulated  products.  It said,  despite
the initial alert (in January 2013), some firms continued to adopt a model  which purportedly
restricted advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a
pension transfer  or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing
pension arrangement and the underlying  investments  intended to be held in the SIPP. 
Ref: DRN821757614HDIFA had to consider  the proposed underlying  investment.  HDIFA knew  that was White 
Sands. It was unsuitable for Mrs K. On that basis the advice  to transfer was unsuitable too. 
But for the transfer Mrs K couldnt  have  invested  as she did  in White Sands and Chateau 
De La Cazine. 
All in all my views remain as previously indicated. I uphold the complaint. Meyado must 
redress Mrs K as set out in my provisional decision  and repeated here.
fair compensation
My aim in awarding compensation is to put Mrs K as closely  as possible in the position shed 
probably be in now if shed have been  given suitable advice. I think shed have retained her 
deferred benefits in her former employers scheme.
Mrs K still has her SIPP. It seems shes unable to close it because  of the illiquid  White  
Sands and Chateau De La Cazine  investments. Meyado should  purchase both of those 
investments by making a payment into the SIPP to reflect the purchase prices,  acceptable  to 
the SIPP provider,  to buy them. That should  give Mrs K the option  to transfer any remaining 
balance to a suitable pension arrangement and so avoid  incurring future SIPP fees.  
But if Meyado  cant  or isnt willing to purchase the investments then Meyado will need  to 
cover Mrs Ks future  SIPP fees by making a lump sum payment to her equivalent to five 
years worth  of SIPP fees at current rates. Ive said five years as thats  a reasonable period 
to allow  to sort out whats going to happen with the investments and the SIPP.
If Meyado doesnt purchase the investments and considers that Mrs K may receive some 
value from the White Sands or Chateau De La Cazine investments  in the future, Meyado 
may require,  if Mrs K is redressed in full, that she provides an undertaking to pay Meyado 
any amount she may receive from the investment  in the future. That undertaking must  allow  
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Meyado will need  to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking. 
Similarly, if Meyado requires an assignment  of rights from Mrs K, it will need to meet  the 
costs involved in drawing  up the agreement. Any undertaking and/or assignment should  be 
drafted in a clear  and simple format.
Ive also said the payment  of £1,500 that Mrs K received can be taken into account. Mrs K
had the use and benefit of that money so I think it would be right to allow it to be deducted
from the redress.
what should  Meyado do?
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation in line with the revised methodology issued
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out as
at the date of my final decision  and using the most  recent financial assumptions published at
the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should  be
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate actuarial services provider promptly following
receipt of notification of Mrs Ks acceptance  of the decision.
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to for Mrs Ks
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These
Ref: DRN821757615details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the employers  scheme  on Mrs Ks SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into a suitable  pension
arrangement. The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or
allowance. If payment into a pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mrs K as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
For example, if Mrs K wouldnt yet have  taken a tax-free cash sum from the employers
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed
according to her likely  income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%.  So making a
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation must where possible be paid to Mrs K within 90 days  of the date Meyado
receives notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Meyado to
pay Mrs K this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERFS  adjustment may mean  that the actual time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  - and so any
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply.
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado may make an allowance for the lump  sum
payment Mrs K received. It should do this by applying a withdrawal of £1,500 from the date 
Mrs K received that payment (18 March 2013).
Its possible Mrs K could  face an unauthorised payment charge. But whether that will be the
case and, if so, what amount Mrs K may have  to pay is uncertain.  If required,  Meyado should
give Mrs K an undertaking to meet any unauthorised  payment charge  that she may in the
future have  to pay.
Meyado should  also pay Mrs K £250  for the worry and upset this matter has caused  her.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Meyado Private Wealth Management London Ltd must redress  Mrs K 
as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN821757616
Ref: DRN8217576