K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his car 
insurance policy following  the theft of his car.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
Mr Cs car was stolen in March 2019 and he claimed on his Advantage policy.  I understand 
the car was later found  but it had been completely burnt. Advantage said his cars  pre-loss  
market value was £25,000. But Mr C felt it was worth more so he complained. In addition to 
disagreeing with Advantages  valuation, Mr C was also unhappy with certain aspects of their 
service.
Advantage accepted that some things had gone  wrong and that their service  could have  
been better.  To address that they paid Mr C £80 compensation.  But they maintained  their 
stance on the valuation saying it was fair amount. Mr C therefore brought  his complaint to 
our service.  One of our investigators  looked  into it. She felt that Advantages valuation was 
too low. She therefore recommended Advantage increase the valuation  to £28,500. As 
Advantage didnt  agree  with our investigator, the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide. Weve  since contacted Advantage and advised them  that, as Mr Cs been without 
the increased valuation amount for some time, they will need to add simple  interest  to the 
balance payable to Mr C from the date of his claim to the date they pay him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  it 
in part. Ill explain why.
Mr Cs policy  says that if his car is stolen,  Advantage  must pay him the market  value of it at 
the time of the loss. The starting  point when trying to establish the market value of a car is to 
look at the industry  accepted trade guides of which there are four. But it isnt always 
appropriate to do that as the guides sometimes dont adequately cover  certain  types of cars,  
such as limited edition cars like Mr Cs. For that reason Advantage used an engineer  to 
consider advertised  cars before concluding  the car was worth £25,000.
The adverts Advantage provided us show a range  of prices between  around £15,000 to 
£33,000. The adverts provided  by Mr C range  between £26,000 and £42,000 although the 
majority are around the £30,000 mark. Having considered the adverts provided by 
Advantage I can see that the car most  similar  to Mr Cs was advertised for £32,000. That 
cars mileage was just under 34,000 miles whereas Mr Cs car at the time of loss had 37,600 
miles. The cars that were advertised for less had substantially higher mileage, some  more 
than double Mr Cs cars mileage. So I dont think they are a good comparison. Looking  at 
the adverts supplied by Mr C I think the cars most similar to his were the following three: one 
advertised for £29,900 with 32,000 miles;  £28,990 with 33,000  miles; and £29,994 with 
41,259 miles.
Our investigator also considered the Practical Classics price guide  which  showed a value of 
£28,500 for a dealer/concourse condition car. The condition rating was described  as a basic 
guide to what  you can expect to pay (£) for the best examples of a model, a concourse  car 
Ref: DRN98494742or something  from a dealer.  Advantage have said that Mr Cs car couldnt be considered a 
concourse car. But Mr C described it as being  in exceptional condition  so I think it was in 
showroom condition. It also had very low mileage.
I think the figure given  by Practical  Classics  is consistent with the adverts provided by both 
Mr C and Advantage which are most similar to his car. I therefore think in the circumstances 
of this complaint  a fair and reasonable  market valuation of Mr Cs car at the time of its loss 
is £28,500. Im therefore upholding this complaint and require Advantage to settle the claim 
on the basis of the cars valuation being £28,500.  As Mr Cs been  without  the benefit of that 
money I think its fair that Advantage should  add simple  interest  at a rate of 8% a year to the 
balance payable to Mr C from the date of his claim to the date they make payment. 
Finally, Mr C was unhappy about  the poor service  he received. Advantage had delayed in 
instructing an engineer  to value the car. That was only corrected on Mr C prompting 
Advantage. Also, Advantage told Mr C that they would be cancelling his policy within  a week.  
Once the car insured  on a policy is no longer  in existence, as happened in Mr Cs case, its 
usual practice for an insurer to cancel the policy. But they usually give the policyholder  an 
opportunity to add another  car to allow the policy to continue. Advantage said they 
mistakenly told Mr C they would cancel within a week whereas they should have given him a 
month. Advantage corrected that and apologised.  Advantage also pad Mr C £80 
compensation for the service  issues  which  I think was reasonable. Im therefore not asking 
them to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  in part and require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  settle Mr Cs complaint on the basis of his cars pre-loss market 
valuation being  £28,500. They should  add simple interest to the balance  payable to Mr C at 
a rate of 8% a year from the date of claim  to the date they make payment.i
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept
or reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
i If Advantage consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr C how much theyve taken  off. They should  also give Mr C a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9849474