K821x#15Complaint
Mrs As unhappy with HSBC Life (UK) Limiteds  decision to stop paying benefits made under 
an income protection insurance policy held by her employer.
Background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my recommendations,  in my provisional  
decision of last month. It included the following:
Mrs A first went  absent  from work as a senior bank clerk with gynaecological  problems, 
which later led to other problems and a variety of symptoms, in December 2015. Her 
employer made a claim to HSBC,  which it accepted.  She remained off work barring a return  
to work for a few months on reduced hours. 
From June 2018 the policy  terms meant  that, in addition to Mrs A having to be prevented  
from being able to follow the duties  of her own occupation, she also needed  to be prevented 
from following a suited  alternative occupation  given  her training, education  and experience.
HSBC stopped benefit payments with effect  from the end of September  2018 on the grounds  
that the latest medical evidence  including from her treating  consultant  urogynaecologist   
no longer indicated Mrs A was prevented  from returning to work  due to her most significant  
remaining health problems, namely those relating to her bladder and bowel. 
Unhappy with HSBCs decision, she referred  a complaint to us. Our investigator looked into 
what had happened  and didnt recommend the complaint  be upheld. He believed HSBC  had 
acted fairly  in stopping  the claim.  
Mrs A didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the case was passed  to me to review afresh.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to emphasise  that this is a complex case  and that strong arguments have 
been made by both parties. The available information isnt in any way conclusive; 
nevertheless Ive reached a decision based on the balance  of the evidence as I see it.
Having done so, Im currently minded to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
I note that the definition  of incapacity  that applied to Mrs As claim changed  over the course  
of the claim. Nevertheless, given HSBC accepted the claim from the outset (and rightly  so in 
my view), its for HSBC to show sufficient change  in the circumstances to support its 
decision to subsequently stop the claim.
While I accept the causes  of Mrs As incapacity have been subject to change, further 
investigation and reporting has shed light on them. Medical conditions have been diagnosed 
including, more recently, fibromyalgia  and shes been advised regarding appropriate 
treatment. 
Ref: DRN92331632Of course Ive carefully reviewed all of the available evidence  Ill return to the issue  of more 
recent evidence later.  But Im aware  that summer  2018 is when HSBC decided  to stop 
paying benefits. That being  the case, Ive focussed  on the evidence provided from around  
that time.  Notably, we have Mrs As treating consultant urogynaecologists  detailed  report of 
April 2018. 
The consultant said he, or his team, had seen Mrs A several times in the preceding 
12 months. He outlined how Mrs As condition  generates significant  pain and that her 
symptoms overall would have a significant  impact on her day-to-day functioning. 
Significantly, the consultant said:
In response to how the claimants symptoms have  progressed  since the last report 
[of October  2016], I would suggest  that things are relatively unchanged. It does  not 
appear that we have  made significant progress since the last report,  despite  
interventions.  
The consultant addressed  the issue of whether Mrs A could return to work, saying it was 
difficult for him to make firm recommendations on whether a phased  return to work,  with 
additional support,  would be of benefit. He said her significant bowel and bladder symptoms  
would need to be taken into account  with provision made for flexibility around  toileting visits 
and private facilities  near to her work base. The prognosis depended  on the effectiveness,  or 
otherwise, of proposed treatments that hadnt been completed at that time.
Theres also the transferable skills analysis (TSA) report  of June 2018. The assessor 
identified three alternative roles  they believed Mrs A could  undertake,  albeit which required 
her to be able to sustain  concentration  and attention  to detail to undertake such roles 
effectively. The assessor recognised  such  skills  may be compromised by depression and 
high levels  of pain and that it wasnt clear  what Mrs As current mood/pain levels  were and if 
her cognitive  abilities had been  impacted.
HSBCs argued the evidence shows reasonable adjustments  could be made that would 
allow Mrs A to return to work.  My view, however, is that her doctors felt this  at the very 
least  would be dependent on how she reacted to various treatments.  
I realise HSBC wouldnt  have been  able to take into account more recent evidence  in 
reaching its decision in 2018. But Ive reviewed  it and I think it sheds some light on the 
restrictions Mrs A was faced with before, during, and after the benefits  were stopped.  
For example, a consultant rheumatologist reported in September  2019 that Mrs A was 
suffering with widespread pain all over her body  which was constant and very limiting for her. 
Her sleep  was extremely disturbed which impacted  on her anxiety and her ability  to 
concentrate and recall  information. The consultant  concluded that Mrs A was: 
 clearly functionally very limited by her condition and has difficulty even doing 
simple day-to-day activities. She has not been  able to work since 2016  and as she is 
very deconditioned,  she will struggle  and in my opinion, will be unable to return to 
work. I would be very grateful if her employers could take into consideration her 
current limitations due to her long-term  health condition and also the impact  this has 
on her mental health wellbeing.       
Taking all of the medical evidence and the TSA report into consideration, it seems to me that 
theres no doubt as to the severity of the mental and physical symptoms Mrs As suffered 
Ref: DRN92331633with over the last few years.  Various treatment options have been introduced but, it appears,  
with little or no success. And I can see that Mrs A initially tried to return  to work despite her 
limitations but, ultimately, to no avail. 
Its been argued that adjustments  to Mrs As work might enable  her to return  to work.  
HSBCs made much  of the potential, for example, for her to have use of a private toilet, 
flexibility in her work arrangements and the ability for her to have an increased  number of 
prolonged comfort  breaks. But my impression was that this also depended  on the success or 
otherwise of possible treatments. As Mrs As GP wrote in September  2019:
Her bowel and bladder symptoms, (including  stress  and urge incontinence  for urine  
and faeces) continue despite  years  of conservative treatment She is now awaiting 
a surgical treatment for her bladder.  She has been waiting for a follow  up 
appointment for over a year. 
Due consideration must also be given to Mrs As other  symptoms  and restrictions.  Even if 
HSBC was right to determine  that her main  issue was with her bladder and bowels, and that 
workplace adjustments  would help in that regard, that shouldnt be considered  in isolation. 
Notably, Mrs A was also experiencing significant and widespread  pain and mental health 
problems.    
All of the alternative occupations  mentioned in the TSA report, as well as Mrs As own 
occupation, require  sustained concentration and attention to detail. And I see little in the 
medical evidence  to indicate that shed have been  able to cope on those fronts.  
Overall, I currently find that HSBCs decision  to stop the benefit payments was premature   
and so was unfair. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  my provisional decisions that I uphold this complaint. Im minded to 
require HSBC Life (UK) Limited  to:
Reinstate the claim from the time it was stopped  and pay benefits  according to the 
policys remaining terms and conditions; and 
add interest to those  benefit payments from the date each one was due until the date 
of settlement, using  the simple rate of 8% per year.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. 
HSBC didnt agree with my provisional decision. To summarise  its responses of February 
and March 2020, it said the medical  evidence from the time in question  showed Mrs As 
bowel and bladder issues were the main barrier to her returning to work but that shed be 
able to manage with appropriate modifications and adjustments made to her work. 
HSBC highlighted  what it saw as problems in relying  on the consultant  rheumatologists 
report of September  2019. Namely, that the report was based  on a one-off consultation 
around a year after the claim was stopped, and with no follow-up consultations arranged.
Ref: DRN92331634While HSBC recognised  that the consultant rheumatologists report was supportive of 
Mrs As claim, it noted that this was over a year after the claim was stopped when apparently 
her fibromyalgia had deteriorated. It wanted  the opportunity to obtain and review her GP 
notes from the year prior to the report, to see if the two were consistent.
Mrs A said she agreed with my provisional  decision. She said her medical problems were 
long-standing, that she was now registered  as disabled, and that she had a carer.
Regarding HSBCs request for more information,  she said shed already provided reports  
from the consultant  rheumatologist, and her GP, to both us and HSBC in October  2019.  She 
believed it was unfair for HSBC to have more  time to comment  on, or review, them.
I granted an extension  to the deadline  for responses  to my provisional decision, but only for 
one week, despite  HSBCs request for more time. That deadlines now passed,  so the case 
was passed back  to me to review again.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said before, this is a complex  case.  I recognise that, regardless of the decision I 
make, one of the parties will be disappointed with the outcome.
Im grateful  to both parties for their further comments and their attempts to help shed more 
light on the reasons  for their respective positions.  Having  considered  them carefully,  I remain 
of the view that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Id like to assure HSBC that I didnt base my provisional decision solely  on the report of the 
rheumatologist. While I did take it into account, I believe it was consistent  with the remainder 
of the available medical evidence. And that evidence, in my view, indicated that Mrs A 
remained incapacitated as per the policy terms when the claim was stopped.
As I suggested in my provisional  decision,  I found Mrs As treating consultant  
urogynaecologists detailed report of April 2018  just prior to HSBCs  decision  particularly 
enlightening. The consultant didnt say Mrs A was no longer  unfit for work.  What they said 
was that further  treatment  options were available to Mrs A but that, at that stage, her 
symptoms were relatively unchanged  since  their last report of October 2016. 
The consultant did suggest that, from a urogynaecological perspective, a return  to work  
would require certain adjustments to be made by her employer. But I believe that was 
dependent on how she responded to the proposed  treatments.  There was little, if any, 
certainty regarding  Mrs As return.  And I dont  know  how HSBC  could have  foreseen the 
success  or otherwise   of these treatments  when it stopped  the claim when Mrs A had yet 
to complete them. Indeed, Mrs A confirmed to HSBC that shed still not completed  her 
treatments even by the time it issued its final response of November 2018. 
So, in my view, Mrs As bladder and bowel symptoms alone  remained sufficient to prevent 
her from working when HSBC stopped the claim.  Thats  notwithstanding  the subsequent  
consultant rheumatologists report which I do, however, find lends even more weight to the 
claim.
Ref: DRN92331635I appreciate HSBCs concerns about the consultant rheumatologists report but Id point out 
that it was still written based  on the consultants examination of Mrs A. As such, we shouldnt  
be too quick to dismiss  it.
As for comparing the findings of the consultant with Mrs As GP notes following the 
termination of the claim, Ive no reason to think they might not be consistent. As HSBC  
points out, the consultant rheumatologists report of September 2019 was supportive of 
Mrs A. And, as I suggested in my provisional decision, so was Mrs As GP in their report of 
the same  month.     
Regarding some of HSBCs other reservations  about the consultants  report, I dont  find it 
surprising that the consultant saw Mrs A only once and didnt arrange  to see her again. As 
the consultant said at the start of the report, they were being asked for a second opinion. My 
understandings that, in such circumstances, its not unusual for there not to be any follow-up 
arranged. In addition,  the nature of Mrs As illness and the numerous  recommendations the 
consultant made for further  treatment mean  I dont  find it surprising the consultant  didnt 
arrange to see her again.
Overall, I remain of the view that HSBCs decision to stop the benefit payments was 
premature  and so was unfair.    
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require HSBC Life (UK) 
Limited to put things  right as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9233163