K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim
against their multicar motor policy following the theft of Mrs Ms car.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 
15 July 2020,  an extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision,  so I wont  
repeat that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in 
part. I said that there was some delay on Admirals part in recovering Mrs Ms car to its 
authorised repairer.  Whilst  Admirals  recovery agent  had paid Mr and Mrs M compensation 
of £30 in relation to that, I thought that wasnt sufficient.  I said that Admiral should pay        
Mr and Mrs M additional compensation  of £70 in relation  to their distress and inconvenience  
caused by the delay  in it recovering  Mrs Ms car.  
I said that, in the particular circumstances here,  Admiral should have given Mrs M the 
opportunity to cancel  the policy herself. Then, Mrs M wouldnt have to disclose to future 
insurers that an insurer had cancelled her policy. I said that a fair outcome was for Admiral to 
amend its internal and external databases to show that Mrs M cancelled the policy. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs M agreed with my provisional  decision. Admiral said:
It was satisfied that compensation of £30 for any inconvenience caused by its slight 
delay was fair but it will pay the further £70 as a gesture of goodwill. 
The cancellation of the policy was in accordance  with its terms and conditions, 
applies to all customers, is in line with the industry standard  and this service hasnt 
previously found it to be unreasonable.
It wouldnt give Mrs M seven days notice of cancellation or invite her to cancel the 
policy herself, as her car was stolen, unrecovered.
As this wasnt an invoked  cancellation  for a misrepresentation etc, therefore  the 
customer does not have to disclose that they have had a policy  cancelled .
Its previous response should have said that no databases will show the policy was 
cancelled due to total loss, rather than databases will show  the policy was cancelled 
due to total loss. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN95471742For the reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision,  I remain of the view that Admiral should  
pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of an additional £70 in relation to their distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay in Admiral recovering  Mrs Ms car. 
I note that the policy provides that, if the car is stolen, Admiral  will cancel  the policy without 
notice but I remain  of the view that doesnt  operate fairly here. The cancellation meant that 
Mrs M wasnt covered to driver other cars under her policy  and didnt have an opportunity  to 
make other arrangements. 
Admiral says that Mrs M would  not have to disclose  this cancelation to other insurers but if a 
future insurer asks Mrs M if shed ever had a policy cancelled by an insurer,  the accurate 
answer would  be yes, as things currently stand. I dont think thats fair, as if Admiral  had 
given Mrs M an opportunity to cancel  the policy herself, I think  she would have  done  so and 
therefore wouldnt have  to disclose to future insurers that Admiral had cancelled her policy. 
Admiral now says that it was mistaken to say databases will show the policy  was cancelled  
due to total loss. It says that the position  is that no databases will show  the policy was 
cancelled due to total loss. So that the position is clear and fair, I think that the relevant  
databases should show that Mrs M cancelled the policy, as thats what I think  she would 
have done if shed been given the opportunity to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision and above,  I uphold                     
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in part. I now require Admiral Insurance  Company Limited to:
pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of an additional £70 in addition  to the £30 offered
by its recovery agent and
amend its internal  and any external databases  to show that Mrs M cancelled  the
policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95471743extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim against 
their multicar motor  policy following the theft of Mrs Ms car.
background
On 7 November 2018, Mr and Mrs M discovered  that Mrs Ms car had been stolen following  a burglary 
at their home in which  the car keys were taken. A few days later, the police  recovered  Mrs Ms car but 
there was a delay in the police releasing the car.
On 28 November  2018,  Mr M told Admiral  that the police had released the car and Admiral 
instructed its approved garage and recovery  agent  on that day. On 5 December 2018,  Admirals 
recovery agent moved the car to its approved garage. On 12 December 2018,  the car was found  to 
be beyond economical repair and Admiral settled Mrs Ms claim on that basis. Mrs M decided not to 
buy a replacement car.
Mr and Mrs M complain  that:
There was significant  delay in recovering the car to Admirals approved garage.
Admiral retained the full premium for a car it has written  off and removed from cover.
Admiral cancelled the policy when the car was reported stolen,  which  meant that Mrs 
M wasnt covered to driver other  cars.
Admiral removed the multicar discount, which  meant Mr M had to pay an additional 
premium.
At the outset,  Mr and Mrs M wanted compensation for the delay in recovering the car, cover for the 
stolen car to be reinstated and a refund of the additional premium Mr M had to pay following the 
removal of the multicar  discount. They say that its sharp practice to retain the full premium when the 
car is written off and the policy cancelled.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what had happened. She didnt  think that Admiral had
done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the adjudicator.  They said that theyd received a letter  from Admirals  
recovery agent in which it apologised for its delay and offered them compensation  of £30. They  
asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint,  so it was passed to me.
I indicated to Admiral that I intended to uphold  the complaint in relation to its part in the delay  in 
recovering the car to its authorised garage, which  meant that there was a delay in settling the claim. 
I said that I intended to award Mr and Mrs M £70 in addition to the £30 offered by the recovery 
agent. Admiral didnt  provide any response to that.
I asked both parties  some  further questions in order  to establish  a full picture about what had 
happened after Mrs Ms claim. The responses I received meant that I could  proceed with my 
provisional decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN95471744Mr and Mrs Ms policy doesnt protect them from every loss and all inconvenience that occurred 
following the theft of Mrs Ms car. So, I need to look at the policy terms and conditions  to see what 
Admiral said it would  cover  and consider whether  it has acted in accordance with the policy  terms 
and fairly.
Not all of the delay in this case was caused by Admiral or its agents. There  was a significant period 
before the police released Mrs Ms car. But I think that Admiral delayed in recovering  the car to its 
authorised garage.
Admirals notes show that it instructed its recovery agent  near the close of business hours on 28 
November 2018. Admiral  told Mr M that its recovery agent would  deliver the car to its authorised  
garage on 30 November  2018. That didnt  happen. Admirals recovery agent delivered the car on 5 
December 2018. Thats longer than wed expect it to take.
The delay meant that Mrs M had to wait a few days longer for the settlement of her claim and Mr and 
Mrs M made  several phone  calls about that. Admirals  recovery agent  agrees  that it took too long 
and has offered  Mr and Mrs M compensation of £30. I dont think thats sufficient. I think that Admiral 
should pay Mr and Mrs M compensation  of an additional  £70 in relation to their distress and 
inconvenience caused  by the delay  in it recovering Mrs Ms car.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy provides that if the car is stolen, Admiral will cancel the policy without notice.  
Admiral is seeking to avoid responsibility for itself and on Mrs Ms behalf,  for any incidents  the stolen 
car may be involved in. But that meant that Mrs M wasnt covered for driving other cars.  Wed usually  
say that an insurer should give at least seven days notice before cancellation,  so that the insured can 
come to other arrangements.
Admiral says that it recorded the cancellation as due to the fact that the car was a total loss.
It says that the policy would have been reinstated if the car was found to be repairable but that 
wasnt the case  here. I think that Admiral  should  have  given Mrs M the opportunity  to cancel  the 
policy herself. Mrs M didnt buy a replacement  car. I think that if Admiral had given her the 
opportunity to cancel the policy herself, she would have done so. Then Mrs M wouldnt have to 
disclose to future insurers that an insurer had cancelled her policy. I think  a fair outcome here is for 
Admiral to amend its internal and any external databases to show that Mrs M cancelled the policy.
The policy also says that, if a claim has been  made  the full premium for that car is due. Thats  a 
common term in motor policies  and I dont think that Admiral was at fault in relying  on that term.
We look carefully when an insurer wants to increase  the premium mid-term.  Thats  because, in 
general terms, the insurer has agreed a price for the policy year.  But something central  to the way 
the premium was calculated changed, that is, only one car was insured under  the multicar  policy. 
And Mr and Mrs Ms policy says that if a car is removed  from the policy, they will lose the multicar 
discount. So, Admiral was entitled to adjust the premium  for the remaining car it insured  Mr Ms 
car.
Admiral has provided  me with confidential, business-sensitive information  to explain how the 
additional premium for Mr Ms car was calculated. Im afraid  I cant  share  that information with Mr 
and Mrs M, but Ive checked it carefully. Im satisfied that Admiral calculated correctly the additional 
premium Mr M was asked  to pay. All of Admirals customers in Mr Ms position  would have been 
charged a similar premium.  So, I dont think that Admiral  acted unfairly  in asking Mr M to pay an 
additional premium in the circumstances that arose here.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  in part. I now require  
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Ref: DRN95471745pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of an additional  £70 in addition to the £30 offered by its 
recovery agent and
amend its internal  and any external databases to show  that Mrs M cancelled the 
policy.
Ref: DRN9547174