K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card in 2001.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs B says she was told that PPI was compulsory, PPI wasnt explained to her and she 
wasnt given any information  about it. She said she wouldve declined  it if given the 
option. Bank  of Scotland has sent in a copy of Mrs Bs credit card application  form. On it, 
theres a section about PPI. To take out PPI, the customer had to select  the box saying 
they wanted it. The box couldve  been  left blank if they didnt want PPI. There  is a cross 
in the box on Mrs Bs application  selecting  PPI. She signed the application  form. I cant 
know what was discussed with Mrs B at the meeting  at the bank. But, I can see from the 
application form that she had to fill in some information  and sign it. It wasnt a particularly  
long form, so I think it wouldve been  reasonable to expect  her to read the form before 
she signed  it. On balance, I think it more likely that Mrs B opted to take PPI, signing the 
form to say she wanted it. I can understand why she may not remember that now, given 
how much time has passed.
Bank of Scotland recommended  the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check  whether it was 
suitable for her before recommending the policy. It also had to give her information  that 
was clear,  fair and not misleading  so that she could decide for herself  if the PPI was right 
for her and she wanted  to buy it.
Mrs B said she wouldnt have got any sick pay from her employer if she wasnt working. 
She said she had no other means of making her repayments. She was eligible to take 
out the policy and it appeared affordable. I cant see that she was affected by any of the 
main exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. It wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
successful accident  or sickness  claim and for up to 10 months per successful 
unemployment claim. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, I 
cant see that PPI was unsuitable for her needs. So, I cant see that Mrs Bs other  
resources meant that the PPI wasnt right for her.
Mrs B says she wasnt given any information about PPI and it wasnt explained.  Its 
possible the information Bank  of Scotland gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  I cant know what she was told about the cost of the policy. But she 
chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover.  I think she wouldve 
understood that she had to pay something  for PPI. And it seems  like it would have  been  
useful for her if something went wrong  given  she had no other  way of making her 
repayments. It also looks like it was affordable.  So, I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs Bs said but these points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN99999662This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt  have  
to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland has voluntarily paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. It  
doesnt think it did anything wrong  in relation to the commission  it received  on the policy.  But, 
it has refunded some  of the commission to Mrs B in the same  way that it wouldve been 
required to, if it had done something wrong.  Even had I decided that Bank of Scotland  acted 
unfairly, I wouldnt have  required it to pay Mrs B any more than it has already paid. So, I think 
Bank of Scotland has acted in a fair way to resolve  this complaint. In those circumstances, I 
make no further award.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9999966