K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained about the lack of help and support from Barclays Bank UK PLC in 
relation to his mental health issues, which have  resulted in financial difficulties. Mr O says 
that Barclays has threatened  to repossess his property, which has caused  him considerable 
distress and anxiety.
To settle  the complaint, Mr O wants Barclays to put any legal action on hold until he receives 
an expected inheritance. He doesnt  want to make  any payments until then.
background
In August  2011,  after taking advice from a mortgage  broker,  Mr O remortgaged  his property 
to Barclays. He borrowed a total of £112,500 over a period of 12 years.  £38,600 of the 
mortgage is on an interest-only basis, with the remaining £73,900 being on a capital 
repayment basis. The mortgage also came with a current  account reserve facility.   As capital 
was repaid off the mortgage, the reserve increased  by the same  amount, allowing Mr O to 
draw on it as an overdraft facility.
I am sorry  to note that Mr Os mental  health  has suffered in recent  years, exacerbated by the 
loss of both his parents within a short space of time. To ensure Mr O isnt identifiable in this 
decision, I will not go into any further detail, but I confirm Ive read everything hes said about  
the difficulties  hes faced in the last few years. Unfortunately, this has impacted on his ability  
to work, and so the mortgage has fallen  into arrears, which are currently around  £20,000.  
Mr O approached Shelter for help and a proposal was put to Barclays that the mortgage 
account was placed on hold until the sale of his late parents  property completed. (I will call 
this Property 2.) Mr O was due to receive a share  of the proceeds  of sale,  which he intended 
to use to clear his arrears.  At the same time as Property 2 was being  marketed, Mr Os sister 
put her home on the market (Property 3). If it sold first, she would then purchase Property 2.
On 26 April 2019 Barclays wrote  to Mr O, and it is this letter which  has led to his complaint. 
Barclays noted that there had been  no payment to the mortgage since September 2017.  It 
also noted that Property 2 had gone  on the market in September  2018. and Property 3 in 
November 2018.  
Barclays said that it was only able to put matters on hold for six months  from when Property 
3 went up for sale, so until 31 May 2019. In order to consider any further proposals,  Barclays  
would need evidence that the properties  were  under offer by 31 May 2019.  Barclays said 
that if there  was no progress, it may consider referring the matter to solicitors. Barclays  also 
provided Mr O with information about debt advice agencies which  might  be able to help him.
Mr O was very upset at this letter and, through his sister, complained to us. He thought 
Barclays hadnt done enough to support  him, given that he is vulnerable.  He found the threat  
of repossession to amount to harassment. He considered Barclays  to have failed to follow 
regulatory requirements relating to dealing with vulnerable  customers.
Two investigators looked at Mr Os complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. They were 
both satisfied that Barclays had shown considerable forbearance, but that it wasnt fair to 
expect the bank to wait indefinitely for payment. 
Ref: DRN90862192During the course of the complaint, Property 3 was sold and Mr Os sister went ahead  with 
her purchase of Property  2. Barclays asked Mr O to obtain a solicitors undertaking to pay 
his share  of the net proceeds of sale direct to Barclays. Mr O said that Barclays should 
contact the solicitors itself. The situation reached  a stalemate.
Barclays once again said it would take legal  action. But I understand that Mr O has now 
received his inheritance and is in a position to pay off his mortgage arrears. Mr O says hes 
had problems doing this but Barclays has asked him to contact the bank to make  payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything provided  by 
Mr O and Barclays, and Ive reviewed  the relevant regulations.
First, I would like to express  my condolences to Mr O for the loss of his parents. I can see 
from what hes told us that this has had a devastating effect  on him. But in deciding this case 
I have to put aside  my natural feelings of empathy for Mr O and consider the case  impartially 
and fairly.  
The starting point  with financial difficulties is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, 
but particularly  those facing financial hardship,  fairly.  Balanced  against  that, one of the 
fundamental principles  underpinning  the mortgage  contract is that a lender has the right to 
receive payment  of the money  owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (known  as MCOB)  
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. The 
Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML)  also has its own guidelines about what it expects 
lenders to do to comply  with MCOB, which mirror closely  the requirements  of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways  to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created  the arrears to begin  with is one that looks to be short-term and capable  of being 
resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways  to help, such transferring  a 
mortgage from capital  and interest  repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears.  Balanced  against that is the lenders  obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement  is affordable and sustainable. 
I think that Barclays considered all the ways it could help Mr O  in line with its regulatory 
obligations under  MCOB 13  after he made the bank aware of his vulnerability in 2017. But 
the stumbling  block to coming to a payment arrangement was that Mr O wasnt  able to make  
any payment at all, even  after he returned  to work in 2019.  
In the circumstances, I dont think Barclays has treated  Mr O unfairly. Its letter  in April 2019 
which led to the complaint  was over 19 months since  any payment had been made to the 
mortgage. Barclays was entitled to review  the account and set a time limit on when it 
expected matters to have  moved on in relation to the sale and purchase  of Properties 2 
and 3. And Barclays was also required to explain to Mr O that, ultimately,  the bank could 
take legal  action if matters werent  resolved.
Ref: DRN90862193I also dont think Barclays was unreasonable in wanting a solicitors  undertaking for the 
proceeds of sale to be paid to it, so that it could  clear  the mortgage  arrears and account to 
Mr O for the balance. For various  reasons, that didnt happen and Mr O is now in funds  and 
in a position to discharge  the arrears.  
Mr O has told us that hes had difficulty making  such a large payment on his debit card.  But 
Mr O can ask his bank  to transfer the funds to Barclays,  if there is a limit on debit card 
transactions. Barclays should let Mr O know the sort code, account number and reference 
that he should use for this.
I also note that the mortgage term is due to expire in 2023,  at which point  Mr O will need to 
repay the outstanding balance, as well as the overdraft  on his mortgage  current  account 
reserve. I think it might be helpful for Mr O to take some financial advice about  this sooner 
rather than later, so that he is able to put a plan in place to repay the mortgage and overdraft 
when the term expires.
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I 
know this isnt the outcome Mr O wanted, and Im sorry  if my decision causes him any 
distress. But after reviewing everything  thats  happened, I think Barclays  has given  Mr O a 
considerable period of time to pay the arrears. Now that Mr O is in a position to do so, I hope  
the arrears are cleared so that he can resume his regular monthly mortgage payments and 
get back on track with his mortgage. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9086219