K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs C took out a credit card online with Egg in 2004. At the same time she bought  a PPI 
policy which  wouldve covered 10% of her outstanding balance each month for up to 12 
months at a time if she couldnt  work.
Mrs C says she doesnt remember  agreeing to take the PPI and she didnt need  it.
The adjudicator thought  that Mrs Cs complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mrs C disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Egg made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember  this now. Mrs C completed 
her credit card application online and Egg has provided  screenshots of what  she wouldve 
seen. She had a clear  choice about whether to take the PPI and could not have 
progressed through her application  without making a decision about it. The boxes were 
not pre-populated to select PPI.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mrs C got the information  she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been, but this doesnt  mean  I should automatically uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Mrs C 
chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover;  and I think  she 
wouldve understood enough  about  the policy to know  it would help meet her repayments 
if she wasnt working. Based on what Ive seen of circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have  been useful for her if something went wrong. I also havent  seen anything to 
suggest it was unaffordable for Mrs C. So I dont  think better  information  about the PPI 
would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
So I dont  think Mrs C lost out as a result  of anything Egg mightve done wrong.
Ref: DRN90383792my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint, so it follows that Canada Square  Operations Limited, 
trading as Egg, doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9038379