K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Assured Futures Limited  (Assured) mis-sold her an income protection 
policy (IPP).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 28 December 2018, a copy  of which is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I was intending 
not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  against  Assured. 
I invited all parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision. 
Assured has responded to the provisional  decision  to acknowledge safe receipt and 
confirmed it doesnt  have anything further to add. 
Mrs H has replied and, in summary, she says that shes unhappy  with the decision.  And she 
wants to me to be aware of her circumstances  before issuing a final decision. These are 
broadly set out below.
Her sick pay isnt enough to support  her so shes working  alternate  days  - but this still 
isnt enough.
Shes had to borrow money off friends and family just to get by.
Her doctor is still advising her not to work as her recovery time hasnt completed. 
However, due to her financial  situation,  she had to return to work sooner.
If Assured  had paid the claim in full, she wouldve been able to remain  off work until 
she was healed and she mightve  have been  able to return  to working  full time before 
now.
She has letters from her doctor  and sick notes which are available,  if needed.
my findings
Ive considered what Mrs H has said alongside all the available evidence  and arguments 
already submitted to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.  
As I explained in my provisional decision,  even if I gave Mrs H the benefit of the doubt here 
that she wouldve  had enough surplus  income  and time to save  what she wouldve needed 
to cover two months worth of bills, I dont see that I could  fairly or reasonably suggest that 
Assured should  compensate her any more than it has already paid.
I appreciate Mrs H feels the amount due to her is significantly more  than the amount that has 
been paid. And that, if her claim had been paid in full, her financial and health situation 
would be very different.  Whilst  I can understand what  shes saying, and I appreciate that 
being paid more money would ease her situation,  its my view that the money Assured has 
paid Mrs H already is more than fair. So I wont be asking  it to do anything  further to put 
things right.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs H but this decision brings  to an end what we  in trying to resolve  
this complaint informally  can do for her.
Ref: DRN95233892my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint  and so I dont require  Assured Futures Limited to do anything  
more than it has already  offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95233893copy extract decision dated  28 December  2018
background
Mrs H was sold an IPP by Assured in December  2017. The IPP gave her £800 worth  of cover  a 
month if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness. It cost less than £11 a month.
During the phone call with Assured, Mrs H said she wanted to be covered for a pre-existing condition 
for which she might  need  an operation. She was told, incorrectly, that she would be covered. Mrs H 
took out the IPP and had the operation in August 2018. 
When she made a claim, this was declined.  Mrs H says this caused her financial problems  as she 
was expecting to receive a monthly payment of £800 under the IPP for the time she was unable  to 
work. So she complained  to Assured. It acknowledged  there had been a mistake when Mrs H was 
told that her pre-existing condition would be covered.  It explained that pre-existing conditions wouldnt 
be covered and that no insurer would  give cover for this under  an IPP. It offered to cancel the policy, 
refund Mrs Hs premiums and pay £200 for any distress and inconvenience caused by the mistake. 
Mrs H didnt accept this. She said that, if shed been advised correctly then she wouldve  waited to 
have the operation until she was in a stable financial  position to cover her monthly  costs. 
In order  to resolve matters, and even  though Assured is the broker not the insurer , it offered to pay 
half of the expected claim  for the time Mrs H thought shed be off work for  this was two months 
which wouldve been £800 - as well as £200 for any distress  and inconvenience caused as a result of 
the incorrect  advice. However, Mrs H got back in touch with Assured to let it know that her situation 
had changed and she expected to be off for three and a half months. Assured agreed to pay half of 
the expected claim for the new timeframe  Mrs H thought shed be off work for - a total of £1,400 - plus 
£200 for distress and inconvenience. It also gave Mrs H the choice  to continue  with her policy  or 
cancel it and refund her premiums.
As Assured  didnt pay to Mrs H what she thought she shouldve been paid under the policy it sold to 
her, she came to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters and explained  that in this type of situation  where a business 
has given a consumer  incorrect  information - wed expect  a business  to put the consumer back  in the 
position they wouldve been in if the error  hadnt occurred. So he thought  here wed have 
recommended that Assured  refund the premiums paid by Mrs H. And, as Assured has agreed to pay 
half of the amount the claim wouldve paid out for the period Mrs H thought  shed be off work, he 
thought this was reasonable. He thought this because this amount is more than the cost of the 
premiums Mrs H had paid.  So our investigator didnt recommend that Assured do anything  more to 
put things right in this matter. 
Mrs H disagrees.  She makes a number  of points including the following: 
Shes been told that if she didnt get the operation  done,  shed need a hip replacement  within 
4-5 years.
She read the policy documents  sent to her but she didnt think  they applied to her as she was 
reassured on the phone  that shed be covered. 
She contacted Assured  before she had the operation but was told they wouldnt be able to 
confirm if she was covered until after she had had the operation.
More recently, Mrs H has told us her circumstances have changed  and, on medical advice, shes still 
unable to return to work full time.  She says when  she spoke to Assured and gave  an estimate it was 
just that  an estimate. And now it needs to be changed. Our investigator explained that this further 
information didnt change his view. 
This matter  has now been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN95233894my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based  my 
decision on what I thinks more likely  to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues  have been raised, this decision  only addresses those  issues I consider 
to be materially relevant  to this complaint. However, Ive given careful  consideration to all of the 
submissions made before  arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have  to tell Mrs H that I think the investigator  has reached the right outcome here. 
So I dont currently intend to uphold  her complaint in this matter. Ill explain  why.
The key facts about this arent  in dispute. Assured accepts it got things wrong  when it sold the IPP to 
Mrs H. So the issue that I have to decide is whether the amount of compensation Assured has paid to 
Mrs H is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
I think  Assured took this mistake seriously   initially it gave Mrs H the correct information  about  the 
terms of the policy and gave her the option to cancel  it as well as offering £200 to her for any distress 
and inconvenience caused.  Later,  it increased its offer and has now made  a total payment of £1,400 
plus £200 for distress  and inconvenience to Mrs H. Again,  it also gave Mrs H the choice  to continue 
with her policy or cancel it.
I also think  its right that Assured should compensate Mrs H for the distress and inconvenience  
caused by its mistake in failing to tell her that a pre-existing condition wouldnt be covered when she 
specifically asked  about  this. We look at the impact this has had on the consumer concerned and how 
its possible to put the consumer, here Mrs H, back in the position she wouldve been in if shed been 
given the correct information. 
So I need to consider  what Mrs H wouldve  done if shed  been given  the correct information  that her 
pre-existing condition wouldnt be covered under the IPP. I havent seen any evidence that Mrs H 
wouldve been  able to obtain an IPP with another provider which  covered her pre-existing condition so 
I havent considered  this further.
Mrs H says that, if shed been given the correct information, she wouldve delayed  her operation  until 
she had enough savings to cover it. So she wants Assured to cover the full period  of time shes not 
working at £800 a month. But I dont see things  quite the same. I accept  its more  likely  Mrs H wouldnt  
have gone ahead with the policy. In these circumstances, she wouldve been entitled to a refund of 
the premiums shes already paid and I wouldve directed Assured to make a payment  to Mrs H for the 
distress and inconvenience  caused  by this. In the circumstances, I think  £200 is a reasonable amount 
for this.
What Assured has already paid to Mrs H, even excluding  the £200 compensation  for distress and 
inconvenience, is significantly higher than this wouldve been.  The yearly premium of the IPP is less 
than £130 and Mrs H hadnt had the policy for a year when she had the operation. 
Having said this, Assured has gone further than this. It has paid Mrs H half of the money  she wouldve 
had for a successful  claim  under the IPP over three and a half months. Ive thought about  this offer 
and whether this is reasonable.
I can see that its a possibility that Mrs H mightve  delayed the operation. However, if it became a 
medical necessity  then this option wouldnt have been available to her. And shes recently  told our 
service that she had to have  it or have a hip replacement operation instead within 4  5 years. Having 
said this, during the calls from the time of the sale, Mrs H says she might have to have an operation  
but she also says she might not  she explains its more a case of something the doctors are 
monitoring. So it seems  entirely possible to me that she wouldnt have saved any money for time off 
Ref: DRN95233895for an operation  when,  from what she said to the advisor at the time,  it was unclear if she needed it at 
all. I also note that I havent seen any evidence  about the means available  to her to save money.
However, even if I gave  Mrs H the benefit  of the doubt that she wouldve saved for an operation that  
at the time  she told the advisor she wasnt sure she needed in the near future  or at all, I dont think I 
can safely say that she wouldve saved enough money to cover her for the full period of an absence  
from work for an unknown period before going ahead and having the operation.
When she spoke to the advisor at Assured she mentioned being in a cast for 8 weeks and when  she 
claimed she said she anticipated being off work for 2 months. So I dont think it likely that she 
wouldve worked towards saving  any more money than an amount to cover her for the two months 
she thought shed be unable to work.  From  the discussions with Assured, two months  worth of her 
bills comes to £1,600. I also think it likely  she wouldve  factored in the sick pay she wouldve  been 
paid to reduce what she needed to save.  
The total amount paid to Mrs H by Assured  is £1,400, excluding compensation  for distress and 
inconvenience.
So, even if I also gave Mrs H the benefit of the doubt here that she wouldve had enough surplus 
income and time to save what she wouldve needed to cover two months worth of bills, I dont see 
that I could fairly  or reasonably  suggest that Assured should compensate her any more than it has 
already paid.
I know that Mrs H feels the amount due to her is significantly more than the amount paid.  However, in 
the circumstances, its my view that Assureds offer is more than fair. So I wont  be asking it to do 
anything further to put things  right. It follows that I dont currently intend to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint in 
this matter.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and so I dont 
require Assured Futures  Limited to do anything  more  than it has already offered to do.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9523389