K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited hasnt completed an annual service to his 
boiler for a number  of years. He says this is due to the presence of asbestos, and he didnt 
receive the annual  invites  to book a service.
background
Mr R had a British Gas insurance policy to protect  his boiler and central heating  system. The 
policy entitled him to an annual  boiler service. He complained to British Gas that his boiler  
had not been serviced  for several years and requested his annual premium back for the 
periods in question. 
Mr R says British Gas refused to carry out the service due to the presence of asbestos, and 
he hasnt received any contact inviting him to book  the annual services  he was entitled to. 
He explained  to British Gas that he wasnt living in the property at the time, but his ex-wife 
and son were and they say no letters  were  received.
In response to Mr Rs complaint British Gas confirmed the last service  was in 2014.  It also 
highlighted the policy terms which explain  contact  will be attempted  up to three times, but 
after the third occasion  there will be no further contact attempts and the missed annual 
service cost wont be refunded. British  Gas says it made the following attempts during 
contract periods  ending:
May 2016  three letters sent to the insured address. 
May 2017  one letter sent to the insured address.
May 2018  one letter sent to the insured address, and two emails.
British Gas also highlighted that whilst Mr Rs email address was incorrect, it was the email 
address it held on file. It also says that it sent him a letter in March 2018 which asked him to 
make contact to verify his email address, as it was aware it was invalid.
British Gas offered  Mr R £130  compensation for the periods ending May 2017  and May 2018 
on the basis it had either  not attempted contact on three occasions, or the attempted contact 
had been sent to an invalid email address. But British Gas said it couldnt locate any 
information relation  to an asbestos issue preventing visits.
Mr R remained  unhappy, so he contacted our service. His complaint was considered by one 
of our investigators, but she didnt think it should be upheld. Our investigator didnt think all 
the premiums should be refunded as Mr R would still have benefited from the policy  if his 
boiler or central heating system needed repair  she concluded that £130 was fair for the 
contact that wasnt  received. She also said she hadnt seen anything to suggest  annual 
services had been refused, or asbestos was the reason they hadnt been completed.
Mr R disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. He 
has since sent us a photo to show the presence  of asbestos near the boiler.
Ref: DRN92295252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When the evidence is inconclusive,  as it 
is here, I reach  my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider  is more 
likely to have happened, in light of the evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
I understand Mr R feels strongly that the annual  services werent carried out because of 
asbestos. But having carefully considered the information provided  by both parties, on 
balance, Im not persuaded by the arguments  hes made. Ill explain why.
Having reviewed the job history at the property, theres no mention of asbestos, and if there 
were those safety concerns I dont consider it likely that previous services would have gone 
ahead. But the information Ive seen shows services took place in 2013  and 2014.  Likewise, 
Im not persuaded invites for further services would  have been sent if those concerns were 
present, and Im persuaded  invites  were  sent.
Furthermore, if Mr R was told by British Gas that it wasnt prepared to work  on the boiler  due 
to the asbestos,  I consider it likely that he would  have  cancelled the policy  then. I say this 
because the main feature of the policy is for British  Gas to assist  when the boiler needs repair.
In any event, if Mr R kept his policy knowing that British Gas couldnt service the boiler whilst 
the asbestos remained, thats not something I can fairly hold British Gas responsible for. 
Mr R says he didnt receive the invitation correspondence. In respect  of the letters, weve 
been shown copies and they are correctly addressed. So on balance, Im persuaded the 
items were sent and also safely received.  I appreciate Mr R says he wasnt living  at the 
property, but British Gas can only send letters to the address it holds on file.  
Nonetheless, given  the policy terms, I consider it fair that British Gas compensates Mr R for 
the missed annual services during the periods ending May 2017  and May 2018. I say this 
because only one attempt  was made  during the first period, and although three attempts were 
made during the second, two of those attempts were  to an email address it knew  wasnt  valid. 
However, overall Im satisfied that £130 fairly  reflects the cost of two annual services  and 
Mr R still had the benefit of much  of the cover  the policy provides. So Im not persuaded 
British Gas needs to refund any premiums, and Im not awarding anything more.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9229525