K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Eldon Insurance Services  Ltd charged him fees when the insurer exercised 
their right to cancel his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr M took out a motor  insurance policy in November  2018 through his broker. In 
December 2018,  Mr M was told his insurance would be cancelled due to undisclosed 
convictions.
Eldon say because  the policy was cancelled outside of the 14 day cooling off period, there  
are charges  and fees Mr M needs  to pay. They say this is explained in the policy terms and 
conditions. Mr M says he feels the charges and fees are excessive considering the 
insurance was in place for only a few weeks.   
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ms concerns. He said he didnt think Eldon had acted unfairly  
in applying the charges because the policy was cancelled outside of the 14 day cooling  off 
period as Mr M didnt  disclose his convictions  when  applying  for the insurance policy.  Mr M 
disagreed and has said he wants an ombudsman to review his concerns. So the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to not 
uphold the complaint. I understand this will come  as a disappointment  to Mr M but Ill explain 
my reasons  why.
Both Mr M and Eldon havent  disputed that Mr M didnt disclose the information  about his 
motor convictions  at the time he applied for his insurance policy.  So whats left for me to 
decide is whether  Eldon  acted fairly in applying the charges when the policy  was cancelled.
Ive looked at the policy terms  and conditions and I can see it says that if the policy is 
cancelled other  than within the cooling off period  we will return  to you the amount that you 
have paid us, after deducting:
A pro rata deduction of premium for the time that you have been on cover,  unless 
your policy  is underwritten by an insurer where  short period cancellation rates  apply.
our broker  arrangement fee.
A £75 cancellation  charge as set out in the Policy and Administration charges 
section
The full cost of all add-on products that you purchased.
Where applicable,  the Direct Debit arrangement fee.
If a discount was applied when you took your policy  out, this discount will be 
deductible from any return premium  due on a pro-rata basis.
I can see from the information provided, Mr M sent Eldon  a copy of his driving license in 
order to validate  his policy. Eldon replied to Mr M on the same day. They said they identified 
a discrepancy about Mr Ms motor  convictions and therefore, they told Mr M they werent 
going to continue the insurance for Mr M. 
Ref: DRN97159422As a result of the policy being cancelled  outside  of the cooling off period, Eldon told Mr M 
there was an outstanding  balance to be paid on the account. This outstanding balance was 
made up of several  fees and charges including costs for the add-on products Mr M chose to 
have. 
Having thought about this carefully, I dont  think Eldon acted unreasonably in response to 
receiving Mr Ms driving license. Whilst I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration that hes being 
asked to pay, what he says is a lot of money for a small period of time where he had cover, 
Im satisfied Eldon charged Mr M the fees fairly and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Had Mr M provided the information  to Eldon about his motor convictions in the 
first instance, he couldve avoided the policy being  cancelled outside of the cooling off 
period.
Eldon have offered Mr M a payment plan to be able to pay the charges and fees he owes 
over a period  of time and I think this is reasonable. 
If Mr M wishes to complain about  the specific add-on products he had on his insurance, hell 
have to complain to the individual  insurers.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9715942