K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) wont cancel and refund two loans he 
took out to pay for two fractional rights agreements. Mr A believes the fractional rights 
agreements were misrepresented  and has brought  a claim against Hitachi under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act (CCA). 
Mr A was initially  represented by a third party but for simplicity Ill refer to all submissions 
from the third party and Mr A as if they were  made  by Mr A. 
The two timeshare, and related supply  contract  agreements, are in joint names with Mr A 
and his partner.  As the loan agreements with Hitachi  are in Mr As sole name Mr A is the 
eligible complainant who can bring  the complaint to our service. 
background
In 2011 Mr A and his partner entered into a fractional rights agreement  with a company  Ill 
call C. They purchased  1 weeks residency  in a resort in Spain and it was paid for through a 
loan agreement with Hitachi in Mr As sole name. The amount of credit provided was 
£12,210 and was repayable over 24 months. 
At the same time as taking the fractional rights agreement,  Mr A and his partner  agreed  to 
exchange their rights  to the property for an annual number of points. The points were 747 
each year and could be used as a form of currency to purchase  holidays and/or other  
benefits offered  by associated third parties. Some or all of the points could be carried  over to 
following years  and used  with the next years allocation. 
In June 2012 Mr A and his partner made an additional purchase, this time for 2 weeks in a 
different resort in Spain.  This was again  paid for through a Hitachi  loan agreement in Mr As 
sole name. The amount  of credit was £8,950 and was repayable  over 180 months.  
Like the 2011 fractional rights agreement, the rights  were exchanged for 1,290  annual points 
which could be used  in the same way towards  holidays and other benefits. 
Mr A and his family took some holidays through the scheme but havent taken or attempted 
to book any holidays since  the summer  of 2016. In 2017  Mr A and his partner  complained to 
Hitachi about the scheme as they feel they were misled when entering into the two 
agreements. Mr A says:
they were told that the properties  would  be good investments for their future  but they 
dont believe this to be the case.  
they believe the scheme is oversubscribed and this is why they were  unable to book  
the holidays they wanted. 
it wasnt clear  that they couldnt  sell the fractional points  unless all of the owners  
agreed to do so. 
they werent told that the maintenance fees still needed be paid if their children 
continued to use the scheme in the event of their death.
Hitachi didnt uphold  Mr As claim so he referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint but didnt find that it should be upheld.  Mr A didnt  
accept the investigators  findings and the complaint  has been  passed to me for a final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN93148062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, for what are broadly the same reasons. 
Mr A raised his complaint under Section 75 of the CCA. One effect  of Section 75 is that 
(subject to certain  limitations),  a person  who pays a supplier for goods or services with 
certain types of credit  can claim against the credit provider if the supplier  doesnt  keep to the 
agreement or misrepresents it.
When considering  if Hitachi should do something  about the fractional rights purchased in 
2011 and 2012 my role isnt to decide  whether or not Section 75 applies here. Rather, Im 
required to decide  what, if anything, Hitachi should do to resolve  Mr As complaint. In doing 
that, I must decide  what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other  
things) any relevant  law. Relevant law includes Section 75 of the CCA. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  someone to enter a contract 
he/she would not otherwise have entered. In this case  Mr A has referred to specific  things he 
says he was or wasnt told at the time he bought the fractional rights.  So Ive considered 
these in detail  and will refer to them individually. 
the properties would be good  investments  for the future 
Mr A says that when  the details were being explained to them, before they agreed to 
proceed, they were told the properties would be good investments. He says they were  told 
the property value would never fall as C was so successful.  Mr A says that they were shown 
a graph that supported this, referring to the property values. 
C says the properties were  never  sold as investments  and no graph had ever been used to 
show the property  price would unfailingly increase. When asked, C told us that it was unable  
to provide a copy  of the marketing slides that would have been  used for Mr A as these have 
evolved over the years.
I note that the membership declaration  that Mr A and his partner  signed  at the time of both 
sales includes a declaration that refers  to the primary purpose of the fraction being for the 
use of holidays.  It also states that C makes no representation as to the future  price  or value 
of the fraction.  
I accept the future value  of the fraction was likely to have been discussed at the time and 
that the fraction having a value in the future when it could be sold was an attraction to Mr A. 
But Im not persuaded theres sufficient  evidence to indicate Mr A was told that the value 
would never  fall. Im also not persuaded theres  sufficient  evidence to indicate  that the 
fraction would  have been worth a certain value in the future. 
The value of the fraction would be dependent on property  values,  which of course would be 
impacted by a variety  of market factors. Properties do, generally, increase  over time but I 
think it would  have  been reasonable for Mr A to have known that there could be no 
guarantee about the future value of the property, of therefore his share,  when it would be 
sold in around  19 years time. 
Ref: DRN93148063Although not guaranteed,  it is of course  likely  that Mr A will receive a return  when the 
property is sold in the future and this will be after hes had the benefit  of the holidays 
(assuming he continues) over those years. Any return  would therefore  be a benefit even if 
the actual amount could not be guaranteed.  
Having carefully considered all that the parties  have said and provided on this point, I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate Mr A was misled about the future value of 
the property or that he was guaranteed to receive a certain amount in the future.
unclear fractional points couldnt  be sold unless all of the owners  agreed to do so 
Mr A says that it wasnt clear to them that they couldnt sell the fractional points unless all of 
the owners agreed to do so. One of the documents C has provided, which  I understand was 
given to Mr A at the time of the sales, refers to the sale of the property and states:
Each Allocated Property shall be sold on its respective Sale Date  which  occurs  on the date
specified in the Fractional  Rights Certificate  for the Allocated Property, save that the Vendor 
may, in its absolute discretion, postpone the date of sale from the date proposed  as the 
Sale Date for up to two years.  By unanimous consent of the Owners  in that Allocated  
Property given in writing,  the sale may be postponed for such period as is agreed in such 
consent.
Considering the terms of the agreement it doesnt appear that Mr A has to also have the 
agreement of all other  owners  when  the property is to be sold. If however owners provide 
unanimous consent the sale can be postponed  but this is however  different to obtaining 
every owners consent to sell the property. 
the scheme is oversubscribed 
Mr A has referred to the difficulties he says hes had booking  holidays with C. He says hes 
tried to book early and been disappointed by the availability of locations. Hes also not been 
able to book when hes left it nearer to the time of when he was looking to go away.  He 
believes that C has essentially  oversaturated the properties with customers and theres 
simply not enough available to meet the demand for the properties. 
C has referred to the number of resorts and countries that are available for Mr A to book 
holidays to and says theres approximately 150 resorts in 33 countries. It also says that Mr A 
has access to around  900 additional  weeks in 22 countries and can use the external  
exchange network to access  even more availability. C has said that there is and always  has 
been more accommodation available throughout the year for members use when compared 
to the total amount of timeshare weeks sold. 
As with any holiday booking process, certain resorts and/or properties  will be more popular  
than others  and availability may then be limited further at peak  times  of the year.  Ive noted 
what Mr A has said about difficulties hes had booking some  holidays but I also note that he 
has successfully booked  several holidays. The October 2013 holiday was I understand 
during the school half term holidays  which I expect  would  have  been  a popular time.  
Its not entirely clear  exactly  how many  properties  are available  compared to the exact  
number of fraction owners.  I fully accept that Mr A hasnt always  been able to book his first 
choice of resort  or property but I havent  seen sufficient evidence  to demonstrate that C has 
essentially oversold  and saturated the process in the way Mr A suggests. I also havent seen 
Ref: DRN93148064anything that guarantees  Mr A the first choice of holiday  and note the information  from the 
time of the sales refers  to bookings being subject to availability and on a first come first-
served basis. 
not told maintenance fees still needed be paid if used after their deaths
Mr A says that they werent told that should their beneficiaries continue to use the scheme 
after theyd died the maintenance fees would  still need to be paid. I dont dispute this and I 
also havent seen  anything where this is expressly stated in any of the documentation. But I 
dont think the absence of this is unreasonable or unfair. I havent seen anything that says 
maintenance fees dont have to be paid if the scheme is still used after Mr As death. Nor 
has Mr A said he was verbally told fees would not need to be paid in this instance.
 
Even though  this was not specifically mentioned,  I think that it would  have been  reasonable 
for Mr A to have assumed  that the maintenance fees would still need  to be paid if the 
scheme was used after he and his partner  had died. Others would be benefiting from the 
holidays and the properties would still need maintaining in the same way as if Mr A and his 
partner were still using  them.  
I dont think it was therefore unreasonable for C to not have mentioned  this at the time of the 
two sales and I dont  think it was reasonable for Mr A to have assumed the maintenance 
fees would  no longer  be payable after theyd died. 
In addition to the above  four specific points Mr A has referred to a court  case  abroad.  Its 
claimed this was a successful claim against C in the court and that this therefore applies to 
Mr As circumstances. 
We have only been provided with a very brief part of what appears to be a Spanish court 
document. Despite  requests, we havent been  provided with any further detail, or the full 
judgment from the court, and it is therefore  impossible  to establish the full facts  of that 
particular case.  And therefore if that case has any bearing on the case  Mr A has raised here 
with Hitachi. In the absence of anything  in addition to the brief part of the court document, 
Im unable to find this actually has any bearing  on Mr As case. 
Having considered all that the parties have  said and provided in this case  I dont  think  that 
Hitachi has acted unreasonably in the way that it has dealt with Mr As claim. I dont 
therefore think there are sufficient grounds to instruct Hitachi  to cancel, refund or write off 
any of what Mr A has paid Hitachi. 
my final decision
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr A but my final decision is that I 
do not uphold  this complaint against  Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9314806