K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality. He 
wants compensation.
background
Mr H tells us he acquired  the vehicle in 2018  from a dealer Ill refer to as S. He says that 
prior to entering the finance  agreement hed inspected the vehicle and pointed out several 
faults to S. He says it was agreed  that S would carry out some repairs  and the rest would be 
done through the manufacturers  warranty. He said that S had then told him it would be four 
weeks before repairs  could start and there  was no promise the repairs  would be perfect. Mr 
H says at this point he decided to have  the repairs done elsewhere. He had the wheels 
refurbished by a company  Ill refer to as A. And repairs to the bodywork,  paintwork and 
trims were undertaken by a company  Ill refer to as W.
He said he billed S for the cost of almost £1,500 but itd refunded only £550.  Subsequently 
he said he took the vehicle to a manufacturers agent Ill refer to as L. And further issues  
were discovered. This included three  separate areas of wiring  damage;  and a molten tar 
substance in the drivers door card pocket; marks on the passenger side of the vehicle and a 
faulty fuel tank. He said hed been given an estimate of around  £2,000  for the paintwork and 
door card.
MotoNovo told us that when it received Mr Hs complaint  it had contacted S. And it had been 
confirmed that various faults with the vehicle had been raised by Mr H at the time of supply.  
It said that S had agreed to complete the necessary  repairs.  MotoNovo also told us that S 
had booked in a fault with the seat recliner for repair under the vehicle warranty.  It stated 
that Mr H had then been  advised  that it would take three weeks to start the repairs and that a 
courtesy vehicle wouldnt  be provided.  So hed taken the vehicle to be repaired elsewhere.  It 
said Mr H had forwarded invoices for these repairs totalling £1,485 to S. And that S had paid 
£550 towards this. 
MotoNovo said Mr H had then reported  further issues were still present. These related to 
marks on the paintwork  on the passenger side of the vehicle; a molten  mass of melted 
coins in the drivers door; and an issue with the fuel tank (which was being  repaired under 
warranty). It said that as Mr H had made unauthorised repairs to the vehicle it wouldnt be 
upholding his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 April 2020. I said that I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint. I found that Mr H had agreed to have repairs  to the vehicle undertaken 
or arranged  by S, and at no cost to himself. Instead, hed arranged  for the work  to be done  
elsewhere and this had cost £1,485.  S had paid £550 towards  this which  it said it was a 
reasonable estimate of what it wouldve cost to have  done the work itself.  I didnt think it was 
fair to expect  MotoNovo to pay the difference when it hadnt  authorised  work  be carried out 
by the business which Mr H had chosen.
Both parties  have replied  to my provisional  decision. MotoNovo said it agreed  with this view.  
Mr H thought that I hadnt taken into account his loss of faith in S. And that Id been biased  in 
favour of the finance company. I thank both parties  for their replies. In the absence of further  
information Im not minded to alter my provisional  decision. This is largely repeated  in my 
final decision  as set out below.
Ref: DRN97121322my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr H has experienced  such inconvenience with this vehicle. And I can see its 
not lived up to his expectations  even  allowing for the fact that he was aware of some  
problems prior to acquiring  it.
Id also emphasise  that this service is entirely  independent. We dont have any policy of 
favouring either a business or a consumer. Decisions in each case  are reached on the basis  
of the information with which were  supplied. 
Mr Hs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA).
Relevant provisions  of the CRA  include (NB. underscoring is mine):-
s. 9 Goods to be of satisfactory quality:
(1) Every contract to supply goods  is to be treated as including a term that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory.
(4) The term mentioned  in subsection (1) does not cover anything which makes the quality of 
the goods unsatisfactory
(a)which is specifically drawn to the consumers attention before the contract  is made,
(b) where the consumer  examines the goods  before the contract is made, which  that     
examination ought  to reveal.
Where information is incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Theres no dispute that Mr H identified several faults  with the vehicle before he agreed to 
acquire it. Theres equally  no doubt  he initially agreed with S that these repairs should  be 
carried out by S or through the manufacturers  warranty. Im aware  of his expressed lack of 
trust with S. But Id point out that he had initially agreed for S to undertake  the repairs. I also 
note that Mr H is concerned I didnt  mention  charges he said had been wrongly added,  by S, 
to the original invoice.  As these had been removed by the time the complaint was referred to 
me they havent  affected my final decision. And it isnt for me to determine whether those 
charges had been added as a result  of an error  or, as Mr H asserts,  a deliberate  act of 
dishonesty.
It seems  Mr H became concerned that if he waited  for the repairs  to be carried out hed lose 
the short term right to reject goods  which is contained in the CRA. And that this, coupled with 
his loss of faith,  contributed to his decision not to have the repairs  done  by S.
Ref: DRN97121323The short term right to reject doesnt  immediately apply in cases where a consumer is aware 
of faults (which would  otherwise have resulted in the vehicle  not being of satisfactory  quality) 
at the time of supply but still goes  on to acquire the goods. As Mr H had agreed to have the 
vehicle repaired,  if it still didnt conform to contract  after repairs  he wouldve been  able to 
reject it at that point.
Ive also got to take into account the duty to mitigate loss. Where  a party to a contract 
alleges theyve incurred  loss as a result of a breach of contract by the other party  they still 
have a duty to keep  such loss to a minimum.
In order to minimise his loss (the cost of repairs) the most obvious way was for Mr H to 
permit S to do those  repairs. And thats  what was initially agreed. As Mr H then chose not to 
abide by the agreement I dont think its fair and reasonable to expect  MotoNovo  to pay for 
the repairs to be carried out elsewhere  without its prior consent. S made a payment of £550 
to Mr H. I view that as a matter between S and Mr H. As S isnt a party to this complaint I 
make no finding as to whether this was a reasonable estimate of the costs it wouldve 
expected to incur. What  I can say is that its probable that MotoNovo - as the owner  of the 
vehicle - wouldve  required S to repair it on the same terms S offered Mr H. Namely  at no 
cost to MotoNovo.  So I dont think its unreasonable that MotoNovo declined to accept that it 
should bear the additional expense resulting from Mr Hs decision to have the vehicle 
repaired by a different  business.
Following the repairs  which  Mr H had carried out it appears further  issues arose. These  
included additional  faults with the paintwork and the molten  mass in the drivers  door.  As 
the paintwork  had been identified prior to supply as an area which required remedial work Id 
have expected that to have been completely rectified when  Mr H arranged the repairs.  And 
theres no mention  of the molten mass  in the original complaint. Ive not been  supplied with 
any independent confirmation about  these additional  issues  so I dont think theres  sufficient 
for me to say MotoNovo  should be responsible.
In summary,  I find that Mr H was aware  at the time of supply that the vehicle needed to 
undergo repairs.  He agreed  this work  would  be undertaken  or arranged through  S at no cost 
to himself. He then unilaterally repudiated that agreement and arranged  for the work to be 
carried out by a different contractor. Whilst it was open to Mr H to make this choice, in my 
opinion it wasnt unreasonable to expect  him to have waited for three or four weeks  to have  
the work  carried out as originally agreed. Ive seen  nothing  to show  the vehicle wasnt safe to 
drive.
In those circumstances I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require MotoNovo to 
pay towards the cost of repairs arising from work with a contractor which  it hadnt  authorised.  
So I shant  be asking  it to anything else. And Im not upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN97121324Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9712132