K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Ms B took out with a store card in 2000. Its been  
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Ms B that she had a choice about  it. But 
Ms B has said it wasnt made clear to her that the PPI was optional  and she was under the 
impression she wouldnt get the store card if she didnt take the PPI.
FICL has sent us a copy of Ms Bs application form for the store  card. This included a 
section on PPI, with a space for Ms B to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Ms B has 
signed in the space.  I also cant see anything  on the application form which suggests taking 
the PPI will affect the outcome of the store card application.
So, based  on the evidence I have, I think FICL made it clear to Ms B that she had a choice 
about the PPI. And that Ms B chose to take it.
Ms B has said she felt pressured into taking the PPI. But she hasnt given  us much detail 
about what was said or why she felt this. This is understandable given  how long ago the sale 
was. But I dont think theres enough evidence  for me to say that FICL unfairly pressured her 
into taking the PPI.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Ms B any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Ms B. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve 
been entitled to sick pay. So it looks like it couldve been useful to her.
Ref: DRN96881822Ms B has said she had significant  savings at the time, so didnt need the PPI. But, from what  
shes said, it looks like she didnt have immediate access to these savings or wouldve had 
to incur a penalty  to access them  immediately.  The PPI wouldve meant  she didnt need to 
rely on her savings to make her repayments if she wasnt earning. So I still think it couldve 
been useful to her. And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Ms B 
off taking it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9688182