K821x#15complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that Great Lakes Insurance SE wouldnt deal with his claim under his home 
emergency policy.
background
Mr F contacted his own engineer when his boiler  stopped working. The engineer said he 
thought it was a faulty valve so he couldnt carry out an immediate repair  but he was able to 
help Mr F re-set the boiler so he could still have hot water and heating until a solution could 
be found. Mr F made a claim to Great Lakes. It declined the claim stating the policy  was 
meant to be for temporary repairs after an emergency. It said this wasnt  an emergency as 
Mr F had hot water  and heating. Mr F brought a claim to our service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She pointed  out that if Mr F had contacted  Great 
Lakes when the boiler stopped working  he wouldve had a valid claim and Great  Lakes 
wouldve done repair work for him. Our investigator felt Mr Fs actions  in using his own 
engineer to get the hot water and heating running again was reasonable as it was during 
winter. She also pointed out that the engineer  resetting the boiler  wasnt  a temporary repair.  
In conclusion our investigator  said Great Lakes should pay the claim and add 8% interest 
from the time when  Mr F had a full repair done.  Great Lakes didnt accept this and asked for 
the complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the point Great Lakes is making  when it said the boiler hadnt completely 
stopped when Mr F contact them. So as far as Great Lakes are concerned  it wasnt an 
emergency. But I think thats rather missing the point  and not thinking about  Mr Fs situation 
and our fair and reasonable  remit. The boiler  had already stopped  in sudden and unforeseen 
circumstances once  during winter.  Mr F had this emergency cover in place for exactly this 
sort of situation. Even though hed got the system re-set it was clear  that a repair  was 
required. I think these  are exactly the times  when Mr F would expect Great  Lakes to step in 
and for his policy to operate.
I think if Mr F hadnt tried to use his own engineer and instead had contacted Great  Lakes 
straightaway it wouldve  accepted his claim and done work  to repair  his boiler. The resetting 
of the boiler hasnt dealt with the problem - that still exists.  So for Great Lakes to say it was 
an emergency and the problem still exists  but because Mr Fs system has been re-set  he 
isnt covered is unreasonable.
Great Lakes also contend that it wouldve done  exactly what  Mr Fs own engineer  did and 
just re-set the boiler. The actions of Mr Fs engineer didnt amount to a temporary  or a 
permanent repair. Mr Fs engineer didnt attempt a repair and based on the policy wording  I 
dont accept that Great Lakes engineer wouldve turned up under the home emergency 
policy and just re-set  the boiler.  I think its reasonable to expect that in line with the policy 
wording a repair, either temporary or permanent, wouldve been attempted  or carried out by 
Great Lakes.  Thats the cover offered to Mr F by the policy.
Ref: DRN93056932I think the fair way to resolve Mr Fs complaint is for Great Lakes to pay what Mr F ended up 
paying for a repair  carried  out by his own engineer. The valve repair  was £299.76 and as 
that was the original diagnosis by the engineer  its likely to be what Great Lakes engineer  
wouldve done if called out when the boiler  first stopped.
my final decision
I require Great Lakes  Insurance SE to:
pay £299.88 for the claim
pay 8% interest on this amount from the date Mr F paid for a repair  to the date of 
settlement*.
*If Great Lakes considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9305693