K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr P say Santander UK Plc made mistakes with their current account and hasnt 
kept their data safe, causing them distress and inconvenience. 
As most of our communication has been with Mrs P, to keep things simple Ill refer only to 
her in this complaint.
background
Mrs P visited  branch to transfer and deposit  some money. Two days  later Santander  sent 
her a text message  to say it was sending her a new debit card and that she should get in 
touch if she hadnt  requested  it. 
Mrs P hadnt  requested  the new card, so she called Santander. It blocked and cancelled  the 
new card,  and explained it had been ordered the day after Mrs P visited  branch, perhaps  
because of a computer or human error.
Very soon after, Mrs P visited branch again  to make  a deposit. At this visit she was told her 
existing debit card had also been blocked. Mrs P says she became worried about  what  was 
happening with her account,  so she called Santander and it raised  a complaint for her. 
In its final response,  Santander said the branch had made an error  that in carrying  out its 
standard internal risk checks the day after shed visited, a staff member had incorrectly 
copied and pasted Mrs Ps card number and so generated a new card in error. Santander 
also said that when  Mrs P called to say she hadnt asked for a new card,  it hadnt  told her 
stopping the new card would also invalidate her existing card.
Santander apologised for this and offered Mrs P £75 compensation for her distress  and 
inconvenience. It also confirmed it would send a new debit card to Mrs Ps home  address  
now it had checked  her post box details with her and updated these  on its system.
Later the same day, while at a special  event with Mr P, Mrs P received an email from 
Santander saying  her new debit card was being  sent to a branch. Mrs P says this email  
caused her a lot of worry and spoiled her evening, as shed been told her new card would  be 
posted to her home. She says it made  her even more worried about Santander branch staff 
accessing her details when she wasnt present.
So Mrs P asked our service to investigate. She told us she didnt think Santander was 
keeping her data secure, and the thought of this together with the mistakes it had made 
caused her a lot of distress. Mrs P also said Santander had caused her inconvenience,  as 
shed had to make calls to put things right and was left without  a debit card for about a week.
Our investigator asked  Santander for a more detailed explanation  of its error. It said that 
under branch procedure, the type of transaction Mrs P had carried  out in branch meant that 
a risk control  check was required the next day to make  sure the card Mrs P used was active  
with no blocks. It says that when carrying out this check, a staff member  copied Mrs Ps card 
number. When moving  onto another customers account profile, the staff member incorrectly 
pasted Mrs Ps card number into the other customers request for a new card,  which meant a 
new card was ordered for Mrs P instead  of the customer whod asked for it. And Santander 
said Mrs Ps card number had only been seen by the agent who made the mistake,  and not 
by other  customers or third parties. 
Ref: DRN95603882Our investigator shared this explanation with Mrs P and said she thought Santanders offer 
of £75 was fair compensation. But Mrs P disagreed. She said Santander hasnt told her it 
would take a day to do checks on the transfer, that £75 wasnt  enough to reflect her distress 
and inconvenience,  and that Santander  should change its checking  process.  She maintained 
there had been  a serious breach of her data. Therefore, this complaint was referred to me 
for a decision. 
I contacted Santander to say I thought it had caused Mrs P distress by incorrectly  ordering 
her a new card and by the email it later sent. And I thought Mrs P was inconvenienced by 
the calls shed needed to have with Santander and by being  left without her debit card for a 
time. Given this, I thought  fairer compensation was for Santander  to pay a further  £125  in 
addition to the £75 it had already offered Mrs P.
Santander agreed, and Ive gone on to make a final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint.
Santander accepts  it incorrectly ordered  a new card for Mrs P when she hadnt asked for 
one, and its given  our service a more detailed account of how that happened. I agree 
Santander made a mistake here,  and I accept what it says as a reasonable explanation for 
that mistake  essentially that when moving between records while  carrying out risk checks, 
a staff member pasted Mrs Ps card number into the wrong  box on its system. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest that Santanders explanation for how this happened isnt correct.  It is a 
fact that branch staff will have access to customers accounts and details even when  a 
customer isnt in a branch.  This is simply how banks operate, and why it has additional 
security checks. This does mean  that from time to time mistakes  can happen. And on 
balance, I think that this is what happened.
Mrs P says Santander didnt tell her about these  checks and should change  its processes. 
As explained above, like other banks, Santander  carries out a range of checks and I wouldnt 
have expected Santander to tell Mrs P that it was going to do these checks   given that they 
are for security  purposes, they are commercially  sensitive  and cant  be shared typically.  And 
its not for our service to tell businesses  what their processes should be. Instead, we 
consider individual complaints and the impact and loss they have  caused.
Santander itself says that when Mrs P called to say she hadnt requested the new debit card, 
it didnt tell her that cancelling that card would  also affect her existing debit card. Having the 
debit card for her current account blocked would  have  been inconvenient for Mrs P, so I 
agree Santander should  have told her about that when she called. 
 
Santanders contact  notes suggest that when Mrs P called about the email shed received to 
say her new card was being sent to branch for collection, it told her the email  was a normal  
security procedure triggered when a new card is ordered. And it told her that because it had 
changed her address  post box details on the same day as ordering her new card,  it was 
likely its system updates hadnt recognised  the post box change.
Ref: DRN95603883Given what Santander knew  of Mrs Ps concerns, I think in this particular case that when 
ordering this card for her it would have been  good  customer service for Santander  to tell 
Mrs P she might  receive  an email  about  her new card and that the email might  be worded 
differently to what theyd  agreed because of the post box change.  
So I agree Santander has made mistakes.
In this case Santander has apologised, given feedback and offered Mrs P £75 compensation 
for her distress  and inconvenience. But Mrs P says this isnt enough to reflect  her ruined 
special event, the worry she was caused  about fraud and the security  of her data, and her 
inconvenience in having to call Santander  to get its mistakes sorted  out and being left 
without a debit  card. So Ive considered whether  I think Santanders offer of compensation is 
fair given  the circumstances.
I understand Mrs P is very concerned about the security of her data and what  might have 
happened to the money  in her account. However, Santander has confirmed Mrs Ps data 
hasnt been seen by other  customers or third parties and Ive not seen any evidence  to 
suggest otherwise.  And Ive not seen any evidence to suggest  anything has happened  to the 
money in her account. So I cant say theres been any financial loss here or that her personal 
information has been compromised.
But Im satisfied Mrs P has been caused distress. She would have been worried  to find out 
that a new card had been ordered  without her requesting it. While Santander acted quickly  to 
block that card and look into what had happened, it made a further mistake  in not warning 
her she might get an email saying  her new card would be sent to branch. This wouldve 
undermined Santanders previous reassurances and caused Mrs P further concern that 
something untoward might be happening  with her account. And Mrs P says she received this 
email in the middle of a special event,  which spoiled  the event. 
Im also satisfied Santander caused  Mrs P inconvenience. Thats because Mrs P had to 
have several calls with Santander, and she says she was left without her debit card for about 
a week as Santander had to order a her new card due to stopping her existing card. I dont 
think Mrs P would have been  in that position if not for Santanders  mistakes.
Taking everything into account,  I think compensation of £200 is a fairer  and more  reasonable 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience  Mrs P has been caused.  Therefore, Santander  
should pay Mrs P a further  £125 in addition to the £75 it has already offered.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should pay 
Mrs and Mr P a further £125  in addition to the £75 it has already offered Mrs P.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9560388