K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of Mr V, a colleague,  that BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited 
(BMW) trading  as Alphera financial Services (AFS)mis-sold  Mr V a Hire Purchase 
Agreement. He would like BMW to cancel the agreement and take back the car.
background
Mr V says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement  for a car in February 2018.  He  says at 
that time he was working in the UK on a short  term contract. 
He says he believed  his agreement was one he could cancel at any time as he had had 
another car from the same dealer  and was able to return it after six months. 
He says when  his work contract ended early  wrote to AFS saying he wished to voluntarily 
terminate his agreement.  He told AFS he would leave the car at his workplace to be 
collected as he was moving abroad. And that his former work place would deal with the 
matter on his behalf. He committed to ensuring the car was insured until collected.
Unfortunately he says that AFS collected  the car then sold it at auction.  That left Mr V with 
an outstanding  debt of £13,301  that he doesnt feel he should have.
He doesnt feel AFS carried out due diligence when it offered him the Hire Purchase 
Agreement. He said at the time he was renting a house, had only been in the UK for six 
months with a work contract for a year. He says he had no proof of income and no UK credit  
history. He doesnt  feel as a non UK national he shouldve been given the agreement.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt find any evidence  that the agreement  
had been mis-sold to Mr V.
Mr Vs representative didnt accept this view. He queried where  Mr V signed  the documents 
for the car. And why no mention was made  of a personal loan linked to the agreement.  He 
felt as AFS had sold the car leaving  an outstanding debt of £13,301 it had sold Mr V a car for 
more than it was worth.  And he felt as Mr V only had 12 months on his UK work contract  and 
no permanent UK residence  that he should never have been  given an HP Agreement  lasting 
four years.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change his view. He clarified that Mr V 
signed to say he the documents  were signed  on the trade premises. But a digital audit  trail 
showed Mr V viewed the documents via his personal email address.  The trail showed  a gap 
of 26 minutes between Mr V viewing  the documents and then signing them.  So he felt Mr V 
had time to consider what he was signing and if he wasnt sure he could have sought help. 
Or not signed the agreement.
He said the value of the car was stated on the documents Mr V signed so by entering the 
agreement Mr V accepted  that valuation. 
In terms of Mr Vs financial and residential  status  he said businesses  look at a number of 
factors when  offering credit. He felt the fact Mr V had a previous agreement that he had 
maintained wouldve been something that wouldve been taken into account.
Ref: DRN97867662With regard to the personal loan our adjudicator said he was aware of it but didnt think  he 
needed to consider it in his view. Mr V complained  about the Hire Purchase Agreement not 
the personal loan.  And if Mr V felt this were an issue he would need to raised as a complaint 
with AFS first.
Mr C on behalf of Mr V didnt accept this view and asked  for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
I have looked  closely at the Hire Purchase Agreement  Mr V signed.  The agreement clearly  
states that it was for £31,116.34 with 48 monthly payments of £521.88  giving a total figure of 
£36,889.79. In addition  there was a separate fixed sum loan agreement for £1,500 with 48 
monthly repayments of £37.50 giving a total repayment figure of £1,800.
Ive also seen a letter dated 21 February 2018  which made the terms of the agreement  clear.
For the Hire Purchase Agreement there was a 14 day cooling off period in which  Mr V could 
have changed  his mind,  but didnt. The contract clearly  states  that if the customer withdraws 
after credit has been provided he has, within 30 days, to pay off the advanced credit owing 
plus interest accrued.  At that point the consumer  owns the car. If the credit plus interest  isnt 
paid then AFS can repossess he car and sell it which is what  happened  here.
For the fixed sum loan agreement there  was the same 14 day cooling off period. And the 
option to end the agreement at any time at which point the credit  advanced   and interest 
accrued would need to be paid.
From all of this information its clear to me that Mr V signed and agreed to a 48 month 
contract for which if he ended the agreement after the initial  cooling off period he needed to 
repay the credit advanced plus interest accrued
Mr V has said he had a similar agreement which he did end early.  Ive looked at the details 
of that. It seems was also a Hire Purchase Agreement.  Ive seen a letter from AFS with a 
settlement quote  for that agreement. So I think from that Mr V would have understood there 
was a settlement  figure needed  to be paid on ending his contract early.
In terms of that first agreement it seems a part exchange valuation was given for the car. 
Mr V didnt just give the car back after six months.  He sold it back  to the dealer who then 
settled the outstanding finance.
I appreciate Mr Vs representative has queried some points on behalf of Mr V. Firstly the 
devaluation of the car from when Mr  V had it to when AFS sold it. Its true that AFS didnt 
achieve the original sale price  when it repossessed and sold the car. But I wouldnt have 
expected it to do so- Mr V had use of the car for some months  which wouldve affected the 
value. Other factors may also have impacted on the sale value such  as the economy and the 
availability of other similar  cars. And of course Mr V couldve  chosen to sell the car himself  
and may have achieved a better  price- but he didnt  do so.
I dont think just because  AFS sold the car leaving Mr V with an outstanding debt means  the 
car was sold at more  than what it was worth. And Mr V chose and agreed  to take out a Hire 
Ref: DRN97867663Purchase Agreement at the agreed price  if he felt the car was over valued  he couldve 
looked for something else.
Mr C has also noted that no mention was made  by our adjudicator of the personal loan 
linked to the Hire Purchase Agreement. Ive looked  at that loan. It seems  to me it was a 
small top up loan to enable him to cover the cost of the car. So I do think  its relevant to 
consider it as part of this complaint. But as Ive already noted in this view this loan had the 
same cooling  off period  and the same cancellation  terms so I think Mr V wouldve been  
aware of the agreement  he was entering  into.
The main  point Mr C has made is that AFS shouldnt have given a Hire Purchase Agreement  
to Mr V as he only had  six months left on his UK work contract  and didnt have a permanent  
UK address. 
As the information  we had on the loan agreement from AFS was limited we have gone back  
and asked for some clarification. AFS has explained that it saw a copy  of Mr Vs employment 
contract which ran to June 2020 and confirmed his salary.
It says it didnt restrict the length of the agreement  to match the employment  contract, since, 
as an EU national, Mr V had the right to remain in the UK after his contract ended. I think  
that was reasonable. Fixed term contracts are not uncommon. And consumers with 
permanent contracts might still find their contracts ended, for example due to redundancy.
Finally Ive noted Mr Cs point that Mr V didnt have a permanent  UK address. But I dont feel 
that is relevant.  A lot of consumers rent properties  and that wouldnt seem a reason in itself 
for AFS not to offer a Hire Purchase  Agreement.
Taking into account all of the information I have seen I dont believe I can reasonably 
conclude that AFS mis sold the Hire Purchase  Agreement to Mr V. 
Mr V originally asked us to cancel  his agreement and take back  his car. Since  we have 
considered his complaint the situation has changed.  AFS has sold the car leaving  Mr V with 
an outstanding  debt of £13,301.  But as I dont feel AFS has done anything wrong I dont 
think I can reasonably ask AFS to write off this sum.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9786766