K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that she was unaware  that when spreadbetting on sports using  Spreadex  
Limiteds platform her losses could exceed the available funds in her account. 
background
Mrs K opened her account with Spreadex in December 2003  which she had used primarily 
to place financial spread bets. 
In July 2018 Mrs K placed some sports spread bets on a World Cup match between Croatia 
and England and lost around £958. This left her with a negative balance  of over £670  so she 
complained. Spreadex looked  into the complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
It said that it was clear on its website that losses exceeding deposits  was a possibility and 
that Mrs K had been trading for a long time and this had happened to her before. 
Mrs K didnt agree and referred her complaint  tot his service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  In 
short, she said:
Mrs K had opened her account in December 2003 and at the time had agreed to 
Spreadexs terms and conditions which confirmed that losses  could exceed  deposits. 
She acknowledged that Mrs K had the firm belief  that this wouldnt happen, but the 
investigator didnt  think  that Spreadex had misled her in any way  given what  was 
said in the terms  and what it said on its website. 
The investigator considered the fact that in August 2018 the European  Securities and 
Markets Authority (ESMA) introduced  new regulations which would apply to retail 
clients  and these  included a protection from incurring negative balances.  The 
investigator explained that these  however didnt apply  to existing positions or to 
sports betting. The investigator noted that this was explained by Spreadex  as well 
when it said that sports spread-betting is unaffected by these rules and our sports  
betting products  will remain unchanged. Please  note that when placing sports  
spread-bets on your Legacy Account you will not have a negative balance  
protection. 
Mrs K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. She said that in 
terms of opening  the position it was not exactly clear  that I would incur such  huge losses.  
She acknowledged that she had made  losses in the past but she had always  been able to 
put stops in place to avoid such huge losses. She said she had done some  research  online 
and found others who had been  in the same situation as Spreadex.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. 
I fully appreciate that it was upsetting for Mrs K to realise that her spread bets had caused 
her losses  and that not only did she lose her entire  deposit, she now owed  Spreadex  money. 
Ref: DRN90440802I dont doubt that this surprised her, and that perhaps she was of the understanding  that this 
wasnt possible when spread betting on sports markets. 
However, Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that this misunderstanding was in 
any way caused  or encouraged by Spreadex. In fact, I think the evidence  shows 
persuasively that it made the possibility of consumers  losing  more  than their deposits very 
clear from the moment Mrs K opened her account.  
Ive been provided  with a copy of the customer agreement as it applied  when Mrs K first 
opened her account in 2003. Im satisfied  that the agreement  is clear (including on page four 
under the section called  risk)  that Mrs Ks financial liability to [Spreadex]  may exceed the 
level of the credit or other  limit on [her] Account.  Attached  to terms there  was a spread 
betting risk warning notice which explained that while  a small movement in the underlying  
market may  achieve a good profit, an equally small adverse market movement can not only 
quickly result  in the loss of your entire deposit, but may also expose  you to a large additional  
loss over and above your initial  deposit. 
The account  Mrs K had was an execution only account. This means  she, and she alone, was 
responsible for ensuring she was fully aware of the service Spreadex  provided and the risks 
that this type of trading  involves. Having looked  at Spreadexs website myself, I can see that 
it clearly says on the first page spread betting  losses can exceed  deposit. Theres no 
requirement for Spreadex  to have reminded Mrs K of this every time she opened  a new 
trade.
The investigator rightly considered whether  the new ESMA regulations applied to Mrs Ks 
spreadbets  and for the reasons she has already given, they do not. Im satisfied that 
Spreadex also made this clear on its website  where  it explained this.
So for all these reasons,  while I understand Mrs K will be disappointed  by my decision, Im 
sorry to say that I dont  think Spreadex has done anything wrong or has treated her unfairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9044080