K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the service hes received from Cofunds  Limited.
background
On 1 December  2018 Mr G emailed Cofunds  asking how to close his investment accounts  
and arrange for the funds to be transferred into his bank account. 
On 3 December  2018 Cofunds replied to Mr G. Their email  explained that Mr G could 
provide his instructions over the phone. But depending on the amount to be withdrawn they 
may need this to be followed  up in writing and they may request a certified copy  of a bank 
statement for the account the funds will be paid into. They  also gave him the option to write 
in with his instructions and provided  information  on how to do so. 
On 4 December  2018 Mr G sent Cofunds  a letter instructing them  to withdraw 100% of his 
funds and to pay the proceeds  into his bank account. Cofunds received this letter on 
6 December 2018 and sold the investments  the same day. 
Mr G was unhappy that the value of his investments had fallen between him giving his 
instructions and the sale taking place. He feels Cofunds should have warned him that giving 
his instructions by post might take longer than on the phone.  He says Cofunds later told him 
he could have arranged  the sale the same day via the phone.  He also thinks  they should  
have phoned him prior to the sale taking place when the value was less than he was 
expecting. He holds them responsible for the loss and complained.
Cofunds didnt  uphold his complaint. They said theyd responded promptly to Mr Gs 
enquiries and had correctly acted upon  his instructions. Mr G didnt  agree  and brought  his 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  didnt think it should  be upheld. She concluded that Cofunds  had 
acted fairly  and didnt  recommend that they needed to do more. As he still disagrees, Mr G 
has asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know  this will be disappointing  for Mr G, so 
Id like to explain why. 
Ive read the email  Cofunds sent to Mr G on 3 December 2018. I think this makes clear  that 
Mr G would be able to either phone or write  to provide his instructions. I think  it is self-
evident that sending a letter might  take longer than making a phone  call. I accept that 
Cofunds set out that in some circumstances  they would need  written instructions as well as a 
phone call. And that this influenced  Mr Gs decision to send his instructions in a letter. 
If Mr G was unsure as to how to proceed, he could have called Cofunds  and Im sure they 
would have explained the process to him. Ultimately, Mr G chose  to write to Cofunds.  I dont  
think Cofunds email  was unclear or misleading and so I dont think theyve treated 
Mr G unfairly in that regard. 
Ref: DRN97987672Cofunds obviously cant act upon  Mr Gs instructions until they receive them. I dont think its 
necessary for them to warn him that giving a written instruction might impact  upon the date 
the instructions  are received  and therefore  the date any transaction  might take place. 
Cofunds carried out Mr Gs instructions on the same day they received them. I think  this is 
fair and I dont think they need to do more.  
I also agree  with our investigator that I dont think Mr G was disadvantaged  by writing in with 
his instructions. Cofunds have told our service that due to the amount  being withdrawn, they 
would have insisted  on receiving written instructions in any case. I understand this 
contradicts what Mr G was told on the phone, but I dont  think  this makes  a difference to the 
complaint. Even if he would have been  able to complete the withdrawal over the phone, I 
dont think Cofunds  are responsible for Mr Gs decision  to write in in the first instance.  And 
Im not persuaded that retrospectively being given  some incorrect  information on the phone, 
in these circumstances, is something  that warrants compensation.  
Mr Gs letter  providing his instructions said I would like to withdraw  100% of my funds  
Please deposit  the amount of £42,862.29 (which I understand the amount might vary a little) 
in my current account.  He went on to provide both his bank details and his phone number. 
He says that Cofunds should have contacted him as the amount he received was around 
£1,500 less than he was expecting. He says this is clearly more than a little  and so he 
would have expected to have been contacted. 
Im afraid I dont agree that Cofunds  had an obligation to contact him prior to acting  upon  his 
instructions. Mr Gs own letter acknowledges  he understands that the value he received 
might fluctuate. And whilst this clearly  went down more than Mr G would have liked,  Cofunds 
arent responsible for the market fluctuations that caused this. 
Mr G also says that Cofunds failed to notify  him of the sale within their set time limits. 
Cofunds explained they sent confirmation of the sale to him on 7 December 2018. They also 
included further  copies of this when  responding to his complaint on 14 December  2018.  If 
the originals werent  safely received, I dont think Cofunds can fairly be blamed for this. And I 
dont think the impact of this is such that compensation needs  to be paid.  
Taking everything into consideration, I think Cofunds have treated Mr G fairly, so I wont  be 
directing that they need to take any further action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Ref: DRN97987673Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9798767