K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold to him with a 
loan in 2004.
The PPI was funded with a single premium which was added to Mr Ms loan. Mr M believes 
The Funding Corporation  Limited (TFC) did not pass the full amount on to the policy  insurers  
as a single  premium. Mr M says TFC instead  passed on a monthly amount to the insurers 
and did not pass  on the monthly  amounts after April 2007. Mr M says the missing  amount 
should be used  to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan.
Mr M has made other  complaints about  the sale of the policy, undisclosed  commission and 
an inhibition order. 
In this decision I will not be looking at how the policy came to be sold to Mr M. Thats 
because the policy insurers have already taken responsibility for the mis-sale complaint. I 
understand Mr Ms complaint was upheld and compensation was paid.
This service has also informed Mr M that we cannot look the issue  of the inhibition order  or 
any undisclosed commission.    
Background
Mr M took out a loan with TFC in 2004. The loan was originally intended to be repaid over 
five years.  Mr M borrowed  £10,000. At the same time, he was sold a PPI policy.  The 
premium for the PPI policy was £4,340. This was added to the loan meaning it would attract 
interest. So Mr M borrowed  £14,340.  If Mr M had repaid the loan over the five-year term the 
PPI policy  would have  cost him around  £6,066. The PPI gave Mr M cover  against accident, 
sickness, unemployment and also life cover. Cover was provided  by two different insurers.
In 2007 Mr M made a claim on the policy and received £4,008.96 from the policy  insurer.
From May 2008 Mr M did not pay the monthly repayment for the loan. Then from June 2011 
Mr M paid a minimal  amount each month.  My understanding is that there  remains a balance  
outstanding on the account.
Mr M complained about the sale of the PPI and Ive seen correspondence showing  that Mr M 
received compensation from the two insurers for the misale of the policy.
Some of the correspondence from the insurers mentioned monthly  premiums.  As the credit 
agreement showed  that Mr M was charged  a single  premium for the PPI policy Mr M 
complained to TFC that it had withheld  some of the PPI premium from the insurers.
Unhappy with TFCs response  to his complaint Mr T asked this service to step in.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN91034852complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  why.
When a PPI policy is funded with a single premium it is usual for the lender to increase the 
loan to pay the premium  upfront. From  the credit agreement I can see this is what happened 
here.
Mr Ms complaint is that TFC kept the amount lent to Mr M for the PPI and then paid the 
insurer a monthly amount  as monthly premiums.
Ive thought about this, but I dont  think that is what happened here. Ive looked  at the policy  
terms and conditions. Under the heading  Payment of Premiums, it states You will pay a 
single premium. Given the terms and conditions say the policy  had to be paid upfront with a 
single premium it is highly unlikely in my view that the policy  would have come  into force if 
TFC had withheld the premium and instead paid the insurers a monthly amount. And it is 
clear the policy  did come  into force as Mr M made a successful claim on the policy in 2007.
Ive seen a letter from the insurers to Mr Ms representative dated 17 January 2019. In that 
letter the insurer explained the policy was paid for with a single premium which was paid to 
them.
In my view the confusion has arisen  because of the way the insurers explained the 
compensation paid to Mr M for the mis-sale of the policy.
When a single premium  policy  is mis-sold  this service  would  expect a business to refund the 
extra amount the policy  cost the consumer each month  together  with interest. It is for this 
reason the insurers  referred to monthly premiums in their letters to Mr Ms representative.
Ive looked through all the evidence submitted by Mr Ms representative and Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence  that TFC kept all or part of the single  PPI premium which was added  to 
Mr Ms loan in 2004. 
So, it is my view that the full amount of the PPI premium was passed to the insurers  in 2004. 
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint that it paid all or part of the premium to the 
insurers in monthly instalments.
I note in response to our adjudicators findings Mr M has mentioned that the PPI policy was 
cancelled early in January  2009,  yet he received no rebate. But Ive seen a copy of the 
transaction history  of the loan account. And I can see that on 20 January  2009 an amount of 
£28.15 was credited to the loan account  as written off insurance  margin. This is likely to 
have been the rebate when the policy was cancelled. It would not have  been  a pro-rata 
rebate as single  premium  policies rarely  gave  pro-rata rebates if cancelled  early. This is one 
reason why the insurers may have upheld  Mr Ms complaint about the sale of the policy.
However, like the adjudicator, I dont think Mr M has lost out because of this. I say this 
because from what Ive seen the policy insurers have not allowed for any rebate when 
calculating the PPI misale  compensation offered to Mr M. If they had taken a rebate into 
account, it would have been  deducted from the overall compensation.
Ref: DRN91034853And in any event the PPI premium, including interest would have cost Mr M a total of £6,066 
if he had paid the loan over its original five-year term.  
But Ive seen evidence  that Mr M made a successful claim in 2007 and the insurer  paid out 
£4,008.96. In addition, it is my understanding that Mr Ms loan still has an outstanding 
balance which means Mr M has never  actually  repaid the full amount added  to his loan for 
the PPI. So, he is not out of pocket for the full £6,066 that the policy would have cost him if 
the loan was repaid.
I also note Mr M accepted an offer of £1,813.09 in January  2018  from one of the policy  
insurers for the misale  of the policy. And the other insurer has made  an offer of £4,737.90 in 
January 2019  and also offered Mr M an additional  £400 for the delays in handling Mr Ms 
complaint.
Finally, Mr M has complained about TFCs  handling  of his complaint. I can see this was a 
complicated complaint  involving a sale that took place  16 years ago. Parts  of Mr Ms 
complaint were dealt  with by two different policy insurers.  And other parts  involving  the 
inhibition order and commission  were  not something  this service could deal with. So, I dont 
think its surprising that some of the communication from TFC has not been as clear  as it 
could have been. But the crux of this complaint  is about how TFC passed the PPI premium 
on to the insurers.  And as Ive set out in this decision, I dont think TFC did anything  wrong  in 
the way it transferred the policy premium to the insurers.  So, Im not going  to make any 
award against TFC for the way its dealt with Mr Ms complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against The Funding Corporation  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9103485