K821x#15Complaint
Miss V complains  that Mutual  Clothing & Supply Company Limited  (Mutual)  provided her 
with loans she couldnt afford  to repay.  She said the lender didnt do enough checks which  
forced her into a spiral  of debt. 
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  22 
September 2020. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision,  so 
I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. 
Miss V confirmed she accepted the provisional decision. But she did add that she only 
repaid some  of the loans because she was able to take further  lending  from Mutual. She 
also said that she could  only finally repay  Mutual  by borrowing money from a family member,  
money which she says is still owed. Finally, she said that shed visit Mutuals office  to apply 
for the loans, not all of them were given to her at her home. 
Mutual didnt accept the provisional decision.  It provided a lengthy  response, and Ive 
summarised its points below but I have read and taken  on board everything that is said in its 
response:
1.Mutual says that we have considered these loans (and have taken the same 
approach) as if they were payday loans. 
2.It is unfair for Mutual to be categorised as a high  cost short term lender  just because 
of the home collection element  because, given the term of the loan, they are not 
short term. Its fairer to compare these loans with ones  issued by credit  unions. 
3.Mutual provide  loans  that are mid-cost  it then went on to compare the cost of a 
typical Mutual loan with other home  credit  providers. Based on what it provided, it 
said that for a loan over two years  other  companies can be as much as 2.5 times  
more expensive. 
4.Mutual says that Miss V was given loans with a fixed interest cost of 61.5% APR and 
the HP agreements of 42.4%, which Mutual doesnt consider to be expensive.
5.Miss V couldnt have  entered  a debt spiral  due to the way these  loans are structured 
and how interest is applied. 
6.The Dear CEO  letter (06/03/2019)  makes  general statements about  all of the non-
standard credit market. Indeed,  it is unfair to retrospectively apply the Dear CEO 
letters. 
7.The affordability checks  were  reasonable and proportionate for each loan and Mutual  
considers their checks to be superior  to other  lenders. 
8.By loan 5, Mutual says that it didnt solely rely on the information provided  by Miss V. 
The agent  assessed her circumstances such as income and on a later loan asked for 
information about her expenses. 
9.The regulations  didnt require Mutual  to obtain  further information after a certain 
number of loans  had been provided.  
10.No evidence has been provided to show that Miss V was suffering from financial 
difficulties. 
11.When loans  were repaid early Miss V received an interest rebate and she 
demonstrated a good repayment  history throughout her lending.
Ref: DRN9081243212.Long term users of home credit do not suffer  harm in the same  way that can be seen 
in other  markets. Mutual then mentions CP18/43 and CP18/12 (Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) policy papers).
13.There is no evidence  that continued use of this type of lending locks a consumer out 
from taking mainstream  credit. 
14.The longer Miss Vs relationship with Mutual,  the more  she was able to prove her 
creditworthiness. 
15.Mutual doesnt  think it is right to consider a loan of 102 weeks to be a long term, 
when many other credit  providers (such as banks)  can provide loans over a number 
of years.  
16.Two of the lending decisions were Hire Purchase (HP)  these were used to 
purchase household items with the costs spread over a period of time. 
17.Finally, Mutual  says it understands,  from a recent court  case  that financial loss is 
assessed by comparing the costs of the loans provided against other alternatives 
available. If this was applied to Miss Vs complaint than she has not suffered a 
financial loss because  they are the cheapest  provider of home  credit.
My findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  this includes all the comments that 
Mutual provided in response to the adjudicators  view and the provisional decision.  
Having thought about everything Ive been  provided, my decision remains the same, and Ive 
explained why below  with particular reference  to the points  Mutual  have made above. 
Firstly, Ill be looking at the over-arching  themes that Mutual has commented on around the 
regulations; cost; this services approach  to considering home credit lending;  and Mutuals  
loans specifically (so dealing with points  above listed  numbered  1  6).  
Im not intending to repeat the regulation, guidance and FCA publications that Ive used 
when deciding whether Mutual did anything wrong.  A copy of these can be found as an 
attachment at the end of this decision.  But what I have done,  where  appropriate, is quote 
specific parts of the FCA policy  papers  that Mutual has mentioned.  
Mutual doesnt consider itself to be a high cost credit provider. Rather, it says it is a mid-
priced credit provider. I disagree with this for several reasons and begin by noting  that the 
FCA considers Mutual to be a high cost credit  provider.  I will briefly  cite some examples of 
where this has been explained and published.  For example,  the March  2019 Dear CEO letter 
titled Portfolio Strategy Letter  to firms  providing high cost lending  products  which  outlined  
the key risks to this segment  of the market   says:
Who this letter applies to 
This letter applies to firms  providing the following  products: 
guarantor loans  
high-cost short-term credit (HCSTC)
high-cost unsecured  loans aimed  at sub-prime  customers
home-collected credit (HCC)
income smoothing products
logbook loans 
Ref: DRN90812433pawnbroking 
rent-to-own (RTO) [My emphasis in bold]
And then,  in August 2020, the FCA released its view into re-lending in the high cost credit 
portfolio. Again, the FCA set out the type of lenders who come  under its high cost credit 
portfolio. It says as follows:
Who this applies to
In this review, we set out our findings and the actions we expect firms to take and applies 
to high-cost lender portfolio firms offering the following products:
guarantor loans
high-cost short-term credit (HCSTC)
high-cost unsecured  loans aimed  at subprime customers
home-collected credit (HCC)
logbook loans
rent-to-own (RTO) [My emphasis in bold]
Mutual is licenced by the FCA to carry out consumer credit related activity  including  
providing home-collected credit. And, the FCA considers that, by providing this type of credit,  
Mutual falls under the high cost credit portfolio. Clearly Mutual is free to define itself however 
it wishes, but when  considering the regulations, requirements and good practice 
expectations, it comes within a market deemed  to provide high cost credit. 
I therefore dont  consider  it unreasonable for this service to consider these loans in a similar  
manner as we do other  types of lending that falls within the portfolio. And to refer to the 
lending under consideration as high  cost credit.
To be clear, this service  is not suggesting that Mutual provided short  term loans, indeed,  as 
Mutual has said, some of the loans could run for up to two years.  Which  is why Mutual 
considers it fairer, to compare these loans to ones  issued  by Credit Unions.
However, Mutual will be aware there are some separate rules  and regulations for Credit  
Unions  and as Ive demonstrated  above, the FCA hasnt  brought Credit Unions into its high 
cost credit portfolio.  So, I dont think that comparison is helpful.  
Ill turn now to Mutuals point about  my reference  to the March  2019 Dear CEO  letter   
equating to the retrospective application of new guidance.
This letter was published  after Miss Vs agreements were entered  into. But, given that this 
letter didnt include any new rules, and instead deals with how firms  ought  to be handling  
complaints about  whether their previous lending was unaffordable, I do think  it offers some 
insight on the FCAs perspective on the rules and what  is expected of lenders within the 
portfolio. So, I do consider  it to be of some relevance in this case.  Indeed, this is reinforced  
by what the FCA says on page one of the letter:
Firms in this portfolio vary significantly in size and have a wide variety of specific 
business models and products. However,  customers who use high cost credit  
products tend to share some key characteristics  for example, they tend to have 
poor credit histories and low financial resilience.  Many of them are also likely to be 
vulnerable. Given  these characteristics, lack of appropriate affordability  checks and 
Ref: DRN90812434poor treatment of customers in default or arrears  creates a risk of considerable harm. 
Firms are reminded of their obligations  to treat customers fairly and appropriately. 
They should  also ensure that they take an appropriate approach to creditworthiness 
assessment and treat customers in default,  or in arrears,  with forbearance and due 
consideration.
It then goes on to say:
While not all of the findings of our letter may apply to your firm, we have seen a 
number of specific causes  of harm across  the firms in this portfolio. We therefore 
encourage you to read and reflect on the entire  letter.  If we have contact with your 
firm in the future, we will expect you to be able to explain  what you did in response  to 
this letter.
The letter then goes to set out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose 
to consumers and the markets they operate in. But I wont repeat that information here 
because the rest of the letter can be found  in the attachment at the end of the decision. But 
what is clear is that the FCA expected Mutual  to consider the contents of the letter.
Mutual says its products  are cheaper  than competitors within the home  credit  market  
around 2.5 times cheaper.  To highlight  this, it set out how its comparative annual  percentage 
rate (APR) is 64.5%  for a loan and around 42% for the hire purchase (HP) agreements. And 
so this is further evidence that it shouldnt be treated the same  as other providers of high 
cost credit.   
Firstly, just because Mutuals loans appear to be cheaper than competitors, that doesnt 
mean that Miss V couldnt have been caused some loss or harm by taking them.  While cost 
is a factor,  the number of loans and time spent in debt is also an important consideration for 
this service when deciding whether an error  has been made.  And secondly, as Ive said 
above, Mutual falls within the FCAs high cost credit  portfolio. 
Also, many other forms of credit can be much  cheaper. For example, credit cards  and 
personal loans  can have interest rates  significantly smaller than the loans and hire purchase 
agreements that Mutual  offered. So, while Mutual  may provide cheaper credit  compared to 
its immediate competitors,  overall,  in my view it is still an expensive  form of credit, coming  at 
a high cost.
In conclusion, I would like to confirm that the letter in question included  no new rules or 
regulations that could  be retrospectively applied. Indeed, the rules and regulations that Ive 
considered and thought  about  can be found  in the attachment at the end of this decision and 
were applicable at the time. 
To be clear, I have not made,  and do not make, a finding on whether Miss V did (or did not) 
enter a debt spiral.  Ive merely mentioned that because  that is what  Miss V told us were the 
consequences of taking this lending. But I have noted what  Mutual  says about the structure  
of the loans and how there are not additional fees are applied. 
The reasons  why I think the complaint  ought  to be partly upheld are detailed below. 
Did Mutual, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that Miss V would be able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way?
Ref: DRN90812435The above  is one of the key questions that I asked  myself when thinking  about the outcome 
in the provisional  decision. In response, Mutual made a number of points about  the checks 
that it carried out, what these checks showed, and what the regulations said at the time 
about what it needed to do. So, the following focusses on considering and responding to 
Mutuals points 7  11 that Ive summarised  above.  
As I explained in the provisional  decision,  both the Office  for Fair Trading (OFT)  and the FCA 
didnt specify how an assessment of affordability had to be carried  out. But they did say the 
extent and scope  and the types and sources of information to use needed to be enough 
to be able to reasonably assess  the sustainability of the arrangement  for the consumer.
Both the OFT and latterly the FCA made  it clear  whatever checks  Mutual carried out had to 
be customer-focussed. The assessments it carried out had to determine  whether  Miss V was 
likely to incur financial  difficulties as a result of the loans being provided. It wasnt an 
assessment of the risk to Mutual of it not getting  its money back. 
Its also clear  that Mutual needed to be prepared to adapt its assessment depending on what 
it knew about Miss V. So a dynamic  approach to assessing each applications  affordability  
for the customer is vital. As I explained in the provisional decision, there are factors  that may 
impact Mutuals assessment of the loans, which include, but werent  limited  to, how much 
Miss V earned, cost of the credit  and how long the credit was due to last. 
Mutual says that if Miss V repaid loans early,  shed receive an interest rebate, making the 
borrowing cheaper. But I dont think that the fact Miss V repaid a loan early is necessarily 
sign of a good repayment history.  
It is of course possible, early on in the lending  relationship, that it would have been 
reasonable for Mutual  to have thought this. But in my view, the longer the lending went  on 
for, and the more  loans taken, the more this ought  to have prompted Mutual to reconsider its 
position that the mere fact the loans were repaid was, on its own,  sufficient evidence that 
Miss V wasnt having any difficulties.. 
Im not going  to again set out the affordability  checks that Mutual  carried out for each 
application, because  these are outlined in the provisional decision. But I will, bearing the 
above overarching  principles in mind, briefly  restate  my findings on what should  have 
happened at each juncture.
Ref: DRN90812436Loan 1
I explained why I thought  Mutuals checks went far enough for loan one, why it could rely on 
the information Miss V had provided, and why, based on what it knew,  it wasnt 
unreasonable to have  provided this loan.  
Loans 2 and 3 
I explained in the provisional decision why I thought further checks needed to be carried out 
before loans 2 and 3 were approved because, in summary, Miss V had returned for two 
further loans within fewer than nine months, and the amount she was now committing to pay 
Mutual (by loan three) had tripled compared to her first loan. 
So, given Mutuals obligations under the Irresponsible Lending Guide (ILG) (the relevant 
regulation at the time published  by the OFT), I considered it fair, reasonable and 
proportionate for it to have taken further steps to confirm the information  Miss V was 
providing  for loan 2 and all subsequent agreements. 
I acknowledge what Mutual says about the checks it carried  out, but I dont think  I can say 
that the checks for these loans and for later loans  can be described as proportionate. 
Especially when it seems for these  loans all Mutual gathered  was Miss Vs income. 
And it also isnt for me to say whether  the checks it carried  out are superior  to other lenders 
 solely  whether, based on the regulations and what Mutual knew  about Miss V, it carried 
out proportionate checks. 
To reiterate  the basis for my findings  on these loans, Ive seen very little evidence that 
Mutual looked at Miss Vs expenditure  at all for these earlier  loans, even though Miss Vs 
indebtedness had increased. So, I thought it would have been  proportionate for Mutual to 
have done more. Namely,  it needed  something other than information  from Miss V to carry 
out, in my view, a proportionate check.  
Mutual rightly highlights that the regulations dont say that it must gather further information  
at a set point in the lending relationship. And I am not saying anything contrary  to that. But 
thinking about what the ILG says (specifically section 4.10) I do think that, the more  loans 
Miss V took, the more  Mutual needed  to be sceptical and cautious about  the information  it 
was being provided about her situation.   
Section 4.12 of the ILG goes onto explain the sort of information  a lender may gather. It is 
clear based  on what  Mutual  has told us that it neither sought nor recorded any evidence of 
Miss Vs expenditure  only what she declared about her income.  And I cant  say, given the 
circumstances, that what  Mutual did here was proportionate. 
But, as I explained  in the provisional decision,  I cant conclude Mutual made an error when it 
approved these loans, because  although  the checks werent proportionate, and should have 
gone further, there was no evidence that pointed towards Miss V being unable  to afford 
these loans. 
Mutual is of course  at liberty to disagree with this approach,  but Im satisfied that this is 
entirely line with the regulations in force at the time, and what wed expect other lenders 
within the portfolio  to have done. 
Ref: DRN90812437In any event, I dont uphold the complaint about loans 2 and 3. 
Loans 4 and 5
In response to the provisional decision, Mutual says that it didnt just rely on what Miss V told 
it when it came to the lending decision  for loan 5. It says the agent  assessed Miss Vs 
circumstances such as her income and asked for information about her expenses  although 
it does seem that it only asked for information about her rent/mortgage  for loan 5, and not 
any of her earlier applications. There arent  any further details of say food,  bills or other 
credit commitments.  I also highlighted that by this point Mutual  had some  further  information  
about Miss Vs circumstances, as a result  of the lending relationship  it had with her. 
Whilst Mutual says it didnt just rely on information  from Miss V when assessing this loan, 
exactly what else it did rely on is unclear, and it still doesnt appear that any verification  of 
any information was carried  out. By now Miss V had applied for 5 loans from Mutual in over 
a year and loan 5 was taken out only a matter of days after she had repaid loan 2. 
Equally, Mutual  appeared to know very little about  Miss Vs living costs which,  given how 
many loans shed  taken, and the amount of time shed spent in debt, is a cause for concern. 
To be clear, and I will explain  further  below, in my view, whether the checks Mutual did 
before lending were  enough for these  loans is almost irrelevant.
I accept that Miss V hasnt been  able to demonstrate what her actual financial position  was 
at the time to this service.  But that doesnt automatically mean it was right for Mutual  to have 
provided these loans. Because I am satisfied that, based on what it already knew  about Miss 
V at the time of these  applications, loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have been  provided. I think there 
were signs  in how she was using and repaying  loans  to suggest they were no longer 
sustainable for her. 
For example, if a consumer has to use a significant  portion  of their income to repay a loan(s)  
we would reasonably say that ought to have alerted the lender that by granting  the loan it 
could lead to further problems for the consumer  and so the loan wasnt sustainable for the 
consumer. But to be clear, this isnt the case here,  where there are other concerns in play. 
As I explained, by loan 4, Miss V already had three outstanding loans with Mutual   and her 
monthly commitment to Mutual had increased and was increasing  further.  I think that this 
ought to have alerted Mutual  to the possibility that Miss V might have been  having  problems 
managing her money. 
Crucially, it seems that Mutual had no understanding as to why there was a need for her to 
continue to return to it for new borrowing with such regularity. In these  circumstances, I think  
Mutual ought to have  realised it was more likely than not that Miss V wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay  loan 4.
At this point I carried out a second  review  of all complaints that Miss V had raised with this 
service about other lenders that fall within the FCAs  high cost credit portfolio.  Ive  outlined 
below, what I discovered,  which in my view,  adds weight to the evidence that Miss V was 
having difficulties.  
Indeed, had Mutual done further checks, which I think it was by that point reasonable to do, it 
is likely  it wouldve found out that Miss V was significantly in arrears with at least  one other 
payday lender   which to me suggests that Miss V may have been having some  difficulties. 
Ref: DRN90812438A similar situation arose when loan 5 was agreed, so for the same  reasons I explained  in my 
provisional decision, I dont think Mutual  should have approved  loans 4 and 5. I think it had 
enough information to reach the conclusion that this borrowing  was not sustainable  for 
Miss V. And Mutual should  put things right for these  loans  as Ive set out towards the end of 
this decision. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Mutual ought reasonably to have realised  it was increasing Miss Vs indebtedness  in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?
In this section, Ill be referring to the provisional decision as well as Mutuals response points 
12  15. 
Id already explained in the provisional  decision, why I felt that proportionate  checks hadnt 
been carried out from loan 2  taking into account, how many  loans Miss V had taken, the 
time in which  she was indebted to Mutual as well as the fact that Mutual  knew  next to 
nothing about  her living costs. So, from loan 2, in my view Mutual didnt carry out 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss V would be in a position to afford the loan 
repayments.  
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loans 6 to 18 because  I 
didnt consider it necessary to do so. This is because, in addition  to assessing  the 
circumstances behind  each individual loan provided to Miss V, Mutual needed to have 
regard to the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during the course  of its lending 
relationship with Miss V. 
Im mindful that the relevant rules and guidance made it clear that a lender shouldnt  
continue lending where the loans  were unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and / or it was 
apparent that the customer may be experiencing financial  difficulties. 
It seemed to me that there may come a point at which a responsible lender ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  realised that continuing to offer further lending, to a customer  who 
appeared to be persistently and repeatedly reliant upon them was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  while I acknowledged  that the FCA has said that 
repeat lending wont always lead to an unfair outcome for consumers, the FCAs publications 
also dont say that repeat lending (in relation  to home-collected credit)  will always be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in all circumstances. And it is this that Ive considered  when 
looking at whether Mutual made  an error in providing these loans.
In response to the provisional decision, Mutual made reference to the FCA High Cost Credit 
review CP18-43, December 2018. Mutual  highlighted  the following statement:
"In summary, our analysis  shows  that consumers who use home collected credit over 
long periods do not appear to suffer significant  economic harm as a result in the 
same way that can be seen in other  parts of the high-cost credit markets.  We set out 
our more detailed  results below. These are based  on analysis of the credit reference  
agency (CRA) data that we have collected" (CP18/43 Page  13).
Ref: DRN90812439Mutual has said those who use home  credit  over a longer  period  of time do not appear  to 
suffer significant harm,  in the same  way as a user of other forms of credit  provided in the 
high cost credit market. However,  it doesnt follow that users  of home credit never suffer  any 
financial distress. Indeed,  the review also highlighted:
there are existing controls  that reduce the risk of unaffordable debt and financial  
distress. These include that: 
Firms must  assess  creditworthiness  (including affordability) before agreeing any 
new loan, or any significant  increase in credit.
Firms also have  to monitor  consumers repayment patterns to identify signs  of 
financial distress. They must  take appropriate action where  there are signs  of 
actual or possible  repayment  difficulties. 
Firms must  also not encourage a customer to refinance where the commitments 
are not sustainable  or are not in the customers best interests, or do so without 
the customers consent/request.
Ive already explained in this decision (and in the provisional decision) why I think that 
Mutuals creditworthiness assessments werent proportionate and therefore were  unlikely  to 
provide a decent understanding of Miss Vs financial situation. It therefore follows  that harm  
could be done  to Miss V. 
Mutual then made reference to High Cost Credit  Review   CP18/12 which was released  in 
May 2018. Mutual pointed towards  the following statements made by the FCA:
"3.4 Generally, consumers are mainly  positive about using home-collected credit. 
Many said that they would be significantly  worse-off if this line of credit were 
unavailable to them." (page 30)
"3.10 We have  found that repeat  borrowing is common  in the home-collected 
credit market."  (page 31)
"3.12 Our consumer research indicates that some repeat borrowing is a result of 
consumers meeting recurring  expenditure or occasional emergencies,  as many 
using this form of credit don't have savings." (page 31)
"3.13 Repeat borrowing and multiple borrowing is clearly a prevalent feature of 
home-collected credit  use. We do not consider that this in itself is harmful. 
Providing creditworthiness assessments are carried out effectively, weekly  
repayments should be affordable and sustainable. Repeat borrowing can be a 
useful means of managing cyclical income  shortfalls." (page 31)
In its response to my PD Mutual  seem to have  overlooked that paragraph  3.13 (as above) 
says that repeat borrowing  can be a useful means of managing  cyclical income shortfalls 
when . creditworthiness assessments are carried out effectively . And Ive already 
explained why I thought  that Mutuals creditworthiness  assessments werent  proportionate  
and therefore  they were  unlikely to be effective for most of the lending.   
In addition, paragraph 3.14 of CP18/12 also states:
we are concerned  that there is a small core of customers who are using home-
collected credit over an extended period  and that some customers  are being unduly  
influenced by firms  representatives to keep borrowing.
Ref: DRN908124310In this particular  case, Miss V was in debt to Mutual for an unbroken  period of time of over 
seven and half years and in that time took a total of 18 loans.  The sheer number of loans 
she took; the frequency with which she applied for them; and the lack of any break in her 
indebtedness, led me to conclude that it should have been apparent to Mutual that Miss Vs 
borrowing was unsustainable.
On 6 August  2020 the FCA published  a report to the whole  market  on its findings  about 
repeat lending and home-collected credit (this paper  is mentioned  earlier on in the decision). 
The paper says:
We remind  firms of our Dear CEO letter from October 2018,  sent to all HCSTC firms 
(but which equally applies to other firms in the high-cost lenders portfolio). In 
that, we highlighted the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given  that it could 
indicate a pattern of dependency  on credit  that is harmful to the borrower.  Rigorous 
affordability assessments are key to avoiding harm  in this area, and firms should 
ensure they are making  proportionate and responsible assessments of the 
sustainability of borrowing. Further, firms must not encourage a customer to 
refinance a regulated credit agreement if the result would be the customer's 
commitments are not sustainable.
We are concerned in some instance to see levels of debt and repayments  increase 
significantly. We saw levels  of relending often double within a 2 to 3 year period. 
At some point, rising  levels of overall  debt and repayments will become 
unsustainable for customers. From our consumer research, we are concerned  that 
firms are lending to customers  beyond levels which they can sensibly manage and 
causing customer harm  as a result.
Mutual recognises the need to be careful  when lending to the small core who may be using 
home collected credit unsustainably. But, it considers there is no indication  or evidence that 
Miss V was one of the small  core of borrowers  who were  borrowing unsustainably. However, 
for the reasons I outlined in the provisional decision along with the fact that she took 18 
loans in 7 years, is in my view, a clear indication that Miss V was one of the small core 
mentioned above.   
I know Mutual says that a loan of, say, two years may not be considered long term, 
especially as other credit  providers (such  as banks and other credit card providers) provide 
credit spanning  a number of years.  But, what I would say to that is, Mutual  did lend to Miss V 
for a number of years   albeit via 18 loans.  But the number of loans in itself is also a problem 
because it had the effect of establishing a long-term lending relationship and was a sign, in 
my view, that the loans were unsustainable. 
So, in addition to the reasons Ive outlined in my provisional decision, I think Mutual was 
wrong to have provided loans 6  18 because Miss V wasnt  in a position to sustainably 
repay them for the following  reasons:
By loan 6, Mutual ought to have  realised Miss V was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Miss V had been  indebted to Mutual for around  16 months. While I 
accept the first loan was due to run for a period of two years,  during this time, Miss V 
was given further lending. So, 16 months after she started borrowing, with a relatively  
small loan, shed  been given a further five loans and only two of them had been fully 
repaid. Miss V started off with a loan of £750  and then she continued  to borrow 
Ref: DRN908124311taking loans of between £300 and £400. Before Loan 6 when she took her second 
largest loan to date - £500.This pattern in my view isnt of someone who is able to 
manage their money, given how quickly they are returning for borrowing. 
I accept that Miss Vs repayment history  may have appeared good  (in terms of 
absence of arrears).  But the fact that she had taken a number of loans within a 
relatively short period  of time, coupled with the fact that the loan amounts (and 
therefore the monthly commitments) were increasing her overall indebtedness,  
supports my view that Miss Vs indebtedness was unsustainable.
I also think that it ought to have  been  apparent to Mutual that Miss V was unlikely to 
have been using these loans as a useful means of managing any shortfalls  she was 
having  after all she was regularly borrowing over a number of years. Which would 
suggest it wasnt a short-term shortfall but a longer-term need. Especially as the loan 
amounts and total repayments werent  decreasing in any meaningful way over the life 
of Miss Vs borrowing from Mutual. 
Miss Vs first loan was for £750  and loan 6 was for £500. Although the amount of the 
sixth loan had slightly decreased, her actual monthly commitments  were now nearly 
four times higher  than the time of her first loan, taking into account  the overlapping 
nature of the lending. This to me shows that Miss V wasnt reducing her 
indebtedness with Mutual and so, although  she was repaying  loans  in line with the 
credit agreements, she wasnt actually making  any headway  into reducing her overall  
capital balance  because she continued  to take further lending.  
At this point Mutual ought to have thought  it was more likely than not that Miss V had 
an ongoing need for this type of credit and was dependent on it. By loan 6, I dont 
think it was reasonable for Mutual to carry on assuming that Miss V was using this 
borrowing as a means of managing cyclical income shortfalls . It had substantial 
cause to investigate  this further, but it did not.
 I think that Miss V lost out because  Mutual  continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Vs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take credit over an extended  period of time.
the length of time coupled with the number of loans which Miss V borrowed was likely 
to have had negative implications on Miss Vs ability  to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these loans.
I understand Mutual wants to see evidence that Miss V was closed  out of accessing 
mainstream credit. We dont have access to either Miss Vs bank statements  or credit file, 
but she was a customer taking 18 loans over 7 years from a high cost credit  provider.  So  I 
think it is more likely  than not that, the greater the number  of these types of loans on Miss 
Vs credit file (and the longer the period of time this spanned), the less likely Miss V was able 
to get her credit file and finances  in a position  to be able to regain  access to mainstream, 
cheaper, credit. I consider that to be a reasonable assumption, challenged by Mutual,  but to 
which it has offered no contradictory evidence.
Other considerations
Finally, Ive considered  Mutuals final two concerns, which Ive numbered 16 and 17. 
Ref: DRN908124312Given Miss Vs borrowing behaviour and her overall indebtedness Ive considered  what  
Mutual says about  the two HP agreements it provided. These were used to purchase 
household goods and the interest rate on these  agreements was less than those applied to 
the home-collected loans. And that as a different type of lending product these should be 
considered differently such as a new loan.  But, at the point these agreements were provide,  
there was already a substantial lending relationship between Miss V and Mutual in terms of 
the number of loans taken.  
So while I acknowledge what Mutual says about the purpose of the HP agreements   and 
how they were cheaper than the home credit loans  I still consider that these  agreements  
contributed to Miss Vs indebtedness  (and therefore, contributed to her increased  monthly  
credit commitment to Mutual) over an extended period of time. 
In its submissions to us, Mutual  has talked about  the 2020 High Court judgement in the case 
of Kerrigan vs Elevate Credit International Limited . Mutual drew  on the Courts findings to 
question assumptions  about what might  have happened had it declined the lending in 
question, and so Miss V had had to apply to a third-party lender. Mutual says it was the 
cheapest lender in the market.
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened  had it stopped lending to Miss V from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great  many  possible, and all hypothetical, answers  to that question.  
For example, having been declined this lending Miss V may have simply left matters  there,  
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere   particularly as a relationship  existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt  
a viable option, she may have looked  to borrow  the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach  a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different  application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available  to such a lender  and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application  which may or may not have  been  the same  is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.  From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly  dont 
think I can fairly conclude there  was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss V in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these  possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude  that Miss V would more likely than not have  taken up any one of 
these options.  So, it wouldnt  be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability  in this case  for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should  put right.
Overall, I dont  consider  that my findings (both  here and in the provisional  decision) are 
inconsistent with any of the FCAs publications, rules  or guidance.  I am, in any event,  legally 
required to decide  what I think  is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of 
Miss Vs case. 
So, having  carefully thought about  all of Mutuals  further points, I remain  of the view that 
Miss Vs complaint about loans 4 to 18 should be upheld. I think Mutual should put things 
right for Miss V. And Ill now set out what I think Mutual should do.
Ref: DRN908124313Putting things  right  what  Mutual  needs  to do
Mutual shouldnt  have given Miss V loans 4 to 18.
If Mutual has sold any outstanding debts it should  buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back  then Mutual should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A)Mutual should add together  the total of the repayments made by Miss V towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  Mutual has already refunded.
B)Mutual should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments  made  by 
Miss V which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss V 
originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Remove any adverse  credit file information  recorded about loans 4 and 5. The 
overall pattern  of Miss Vs borrowing for loans 6 to 18 means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should  remove  these loans entirely from 
Miss Vs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual  to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual  should  
give Miss V a certificate  showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  I outlined  in my provisional  decision, and what Ive said above, I partly  
uphold Miss Vs complaint. 
Mutual Clothing & Supply Company Limited should put things right for Miss V as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2020.
Robert Walker 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN908124314EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION 
Complaint
Miss V complains  that Mutual Clothing  & Supply  Company  Limited (Mutual) provided  her with loans 
she couldnt  afford to repay. She said the lender didnt  do enough  checks  which forced her into a 
spiral of debt.  
Background
Miss V has complained  about a total of 18 loans  (16 loans and two Hire Purchase (HP) agreements).  
A summary  of Miss Vs borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Mutual can be found 
below;
loan 
numbertypeloan 
amountterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment 
per loanreceived dateactual 
repayment  
date
1 Loan £750.00 102 £11.39 23/03/2011 23/05/2012
2 Loan £300.00 51 £8.23 06/08/2011 09/05/2012
3 Loan £300.00 51 £8.23 17/12/2011 31/10/2012
4 Loan £400.00 51 £10.98 10/03/2012 20/03/2013
5 Loan £350.00 51 £9.60 12/05/2012 20/03/2013
6 Loan £500.00 51 £13.72 14/07/2012 03/07/2013
7 Loan £500.00 51 £13.72 15/12/2012 06/11/2013
8 Loan £500.00 51 £13.72 23/03/2013 11/12/2013
9 HP £389.99 150 £4.15 23/03/2013 04/06/2014
10 Loan £500.00 51 £13.72 22/06/2013 06/08/2014
11 Loan £800.00 51 £21.96 14/09/2013 06/08/2014
12 Loan £800.00 51 £21.96 07/12/2013 03/12/2014
13 Loan £600.00 51 £16.47 19/04/2014 02/09/2015
14 Loan £1,500.00 102 £22.79 26/07/2014 06/01/2016
15 HP £1,339.94 150 £13.39 20/12/2014 02/05/2018
16 Loan £800.00 51 £21.96 16/05/2015 06/01/2016
17 Loan £700.00 102 £10.63 29/08/2015 04/10/2017
18 Loan £1,000.00 102 £15.19 17/09/2016 11/12/2018
The total Miss V had to repay Mutual could be a combination of the weekly repayments. For example 
when loan 2 was approved,  loan 1 was still outstanding so Miss Vs liability at that point was £19.62 
per week. 
After Miss V complaint to Mutual Clothing  it issued  its final response letter (FRL) which didnt uphold  
her complaint. In this letter it said the first five loans couldnt be considered because  they were taken 
too long ago. So Mutual considered these loans were out of this services judication.
An adjudicator reviewed the objection  made by Mutual but they didnt think  the complaint had been 
made too late. So the case was passed to an ombudsman.  
An Ombudsman reviewed  the objection and decided  that the complaint was made  in time so all of the 
loans could be considered. So, the case was then passed back to one our adjudicators to consider all 
of the loans  provided to Miss V.  At this point,  it was also discovered that the final loan (loan  18) had 
been repaid on 11 December 2018.
An adjudicator reviewed Miss Vs irresponsible lending complaint and they thought the complaint 
should be partly upheld.  The adjudicator didnt  think an error had been made  by Mutual when it 
provided loans 1 to 3  so these  loans werent  upheld. 
Ref: DRN908124315However, the adjudicator did think all the remaining loans should be upheld. For loan 4, the 
adjudicator felt given the time in debt (and the time in debt Miss V wouldve been had that loan ran to 
term) that Mutual needed to carry  out full verification of Miss Vs financial circumstances. And in 
additional, when loans 4 and 5 were  granted Miss V already had a number of outstanding loans with 
Mutual. This led the adjudicator to conclude the loans shouldnt have been provided. 
And from loan 6, the adjudicator thought that a pattern  of lending had been established so this loan, 
and all later loans should  be upheld. 
Miss V appears to have  accepted the adjudicators findings. 
However, Mutual didnt agree with the adjudicators  assessment. In response it provided a 29 page 
document outlining why it disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment. It also provided some further 
comments about the approach  this service  has taken  to dealing with these  types of cases. I want  to 
reassure Mutual that I have  read the entire document, but a summary of the points (provided by 
Mutual) can be found  below;
There are some  factual errors in the adjudication, most notably the claim that Miss V wasnt 
able to repay. She factually did repay. The issue to be determined is whether Miss V made  
those repayments in an unaffordable manner and if this was predictable and would have been 
shown if Mutual  had made better checks.
It is inappropriate to apply an arbitrary More  than 2 loans is unaffordable criteria
Repeat lending  and long-term use of home credit is common and the FCA have found it is not 
necessarily harmful  to consumers
Our loans  are not high interest as described in the adjudication
There is no evidence to support the claim  that the length of time Miss V was indebted  for is an 
indicator of unsustainable  lending  in home credit. Some of this lending  was over a 24 month 
term and some over a 36 month term.
No consideration of the customers financial circumstances, level of income and non-
discretionary expenditure has been made. These are fundamental  aspects of the affordability 
assessments contained  in the FCAs rule
No assessment of what reasonable checks would have shown  has been undertaken  which  
is contract to how this service says affordability  complaints will be addressed
Miss V had a demonstrably good payment record at the time of the lending decisions 
Miss V did not, as claimed, have a poor credit  rating and has in fact managed to be approved 
for a mortgage.
No evidence has been provided  by Miss V to be considered by this service
Each loan was assessed and within  a low band of Miss Vs disposable income
Mutual increased its checks as the relationship  developed,  including credit reference bureau 
checks and more details being  gathered for income  and expenditure
The purposes of credit Miss V applied  for seemed  realistic and the amounts and not to 
represent an unsustainable pattern  of borrowing given  the nature of our credit.
As no agreement could  be reached  the case has been  passed  to me to make a decision  on the 
lending. 
My provisional findings
It may help, and for clarity that I outline the legal and regulatory environment when  the lending was 
approved. So below Ive outlined  what I consider to be the key regulatory requirements  on the part of 
Mutual before providing the lending. 
the legal and regulatory framework and other publications
Regulation by the Office  of Fair Trading  (up to 31 March  2014) 
Ref: DRN908124316Mutual gave  Miss V her first 12 loans  in the period up to the end of March  2014. During this time it 
needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT), in order to carry out consumer 
credit activities.  
Section 25(2)  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to consider when 
deciding whether  to grant a consumer credit licence to a lender. It said: 
(1) In determining whether  an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes of this 
section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant  including  
(amongst other things)  
(a) the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience  in relation to consumer credit 
businesses, consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  businesses;  
(b) such skills, knowledge  and experience  of other persons who the applicant 
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him under the 
licence; 
(c) practices and procedures that the applicant  proposes  to implement in connection 
with any such business;  
(d) evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A) 
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicant's  
employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, where  the applicant is a body 
corporate, any person  appearing to the OFT to be a controller of the body corporate or an 
associate of any such person, has 
(a) committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty  or violence; 
(b) contravened any provision made by or under 
(i) this Act; 
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it relates  
to the consumer credit  jurisdiction under that Part; 
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c) contravened  any provision in force in an EEA State  which corresponds to a 
provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b); 
(d) practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or national  
origins in, or in connection  with, the carrying on of any business; or 
(e) engaged in business  practices  appearing  to the OFT to be deceitful  or 
oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful  or not) [my 
emphasis]. 
Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section 25(2A(e))  and 
said: 
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT may consider to be 
deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper  include practices in the carrying on of a 
consumer credit  business  that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending [my emphasis]. 
In March 2010, as required  by s.25A,  the OFT produced guidance on the test for irresponsible lending  
for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974. And so it issued its guidance  on 
irresponsible lending (ILG). 
So I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable  outcome in Miss 
Vs case. The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said: 
Ref: DRN908124317The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses  and 
consumer representatives as to the business practices that the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT) considers 
may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It indicates types of deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper business 
practices which, if engaged in by a consumer  credit business, could call into consideration  its fitness 
to hold a consumer credit  licence. 
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's  view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to represent 
an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which  might constitute  irresponsible lending.  
Section two of the guidance sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 2.1 says: 
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection and fair 
business practice which apply to all consumer credit lending. 
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says: 
In general terms,  creditors should: 
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when  advertising, selling, or seeking  to enforce a 
credit agreement
make a reasonable  assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner 
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make an informed  
choice 
monitor the borrower's  repayment record during the course of the agreement, offering 
assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat borrowers fairly  and 
with forbearance if they experience difficulties  
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things,  it says:  
In addition to the above there should be: 
fair treatment  of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit products that are 
clearly unsuitable for them,  subjected  to high pressure selling, aggressive or oppressive 
behaviour or inappropriate  coercion, or conduct which is deceitful,  oppressive, unfair or 
improper, whether unlawful  or not 
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current  indebtedness, poor credit 
history, or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in particular, not be 
targeted or exploited. 
Section four of the guidance  is concerned  with the assessment of affordability that lenders were 
required to carry out before granting credit. Section 4.1 says:  
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration  of the potential for 
the credit commitment to adversely impact  on the borrower's financial  situation,  taking account of 
information that the creditor  is aware of at the time the credit is granted. The extent and scope of any 
assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, should  be dependent upon  and 
proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 of this guidance document). 
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which involves a 
creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake  a specific  credit commitment,  or specific additional 
credit commitment, in a sustainable manner,  without the borrower incurring  (further)  financial 
difficulties and/or  experiencing adverse  consequences. 
Ref: DRN908124318Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says: 
Whatever means and sources  of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than solely  
assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay  the credit in question. 
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running  account credit, creditors should  take 
reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's  likely ability  to be able to meet repayments under the credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance. And Section 4.3 says: 
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid by the 
borrower: 
without  undue difficulty   in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness 
over the life of the credit  agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within  a 
reasonable period of time 
out of income  and/or  available savings, without having  to realise  security or assets. 
Section 4.4 goes on to describe undue difficulty and says: 
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower being  able to 
make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that were  not reasonably 
foreseeable at the time the credit was granted): 
while  also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings and; 
without  having to borrow  further to meet these repayments. 
Building on the proportionality principle set out in section 4.1, section 4.10 deals with the issues that 
might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes  factors such  as:
the type of credit product; 
the amount  of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower; 
the borrowers financial  situation  at the time the credit is sought; 
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the borrower  experiencing (or having 
experienced) financial  difficulty 
the vulnerability of the borrower 
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources of information  that a lender might use to 
assess affordability, including:
evidence of income 
evidence of expenditure  
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency 
information obtained  from the borrower  through a form or a meeting  
Section 4.15 concerns  the verification of income and expenditure for the purposes of making an 
appropriate assessment of affordability. It states:  
In our view,  creditors  who do not require documentary evidence of income and/or expenditure as part 
of their assessment of affordability, but rather accept information provided by the borrower without 
Ref: DRN908124319any supporting evidence or, in the alternative, do not seek any information on income and/or 
expenditure at all as part of their assessment, should ensure that whatever  means and sources of 
information they employ are sufficient to make  an appropriate  assessment. We do not consider  that 
self-certification of income would generally  be sufficient in respect of significant long-term credit  
agreements, particularly those secured on property. 
Section 4.16 specifically touches on the issue of proportionality in the context of short-term credit. It 
says: 
Whilst the OFT accepts,  as a general  principle  from a proportionality perspective,  that the level of 
scrutiny required for small sum and/or short-term credit may be somewhat less than for large sum 
and/or long term credit,  we consider that creditors should also take account  of the fact that the risk of 
the credit being unsustainable would be directly related  to the amount of credit granted (and 
associated interest / charges etc.) relative  to the borrowers financial situation 
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending practices 
relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would include where  a lender 
is: 
Failing to undertake a reasonable  assessment  of affordability  in an individual case  or cases 
Section 4.21 gives another example: 
Failing to consider sufficient  information  to be able to reasonably assess affordability,  prior to granting 
credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided, or significantly increasing  the credit  
limit (in the case  of a running  account credit  agreement) 
This could (but not necessarily) include for example:  

Where applicable, appropriate and proportionate, failing to verify details  of current  income  and/or 
expenditure by, for example, checking hard copies of payslip/contract of employment (when a 
borrower is in employment), accountants letters (where a borrower  is self-employed) or benefit  
statements (where a borrower is not in employment). 
And Section 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if: 
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is known, or 
reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable. 
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed  by the customer. 4.29 
says it would  be an unsatisfactory  business practice where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure  that information on a 
credit application relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete  and correct. 
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to: 
[Accept] an application for credit under  circumstances in which it is known, or reasonably  ought  to be 
suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application for credit with regards 
to the information supplied relevant to inform  an assessment of affordability 
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific  irresponsible lending  practices relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s)  have  been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory practice  
where a business is: 
Failing to monitor  a borrowers  repayment record 
Section 6.2 goes on to say: 
Ref: DRN908124320The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate actionwhen/if there are signs of apparent 
/ possible repayment difficulties. 
Section 55B of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974  
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation  implementing the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. At this point  the ILG was amended to reflect  any changes 
required by the Consumer Credit Directive and an additional requirement on a lender  to carry  out an 
Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in force  until regulation of 
Consumer Credit  providers passed to the FCA in April 2014. 
Section 55B said: 
Assessment of creditworthiness 55B 
(1) Before  making  a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded agreement, the 
creditor must undertake  an assessment of the creditworthiness of the debtor. 
(2) Before  significantly increasing 
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided under a regulated consumer credit agreement, 
other than an excluded  agreement,  or 
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement, the creditor must undertake  
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.  
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must  be based on sufficient information  obtained  from
(a) the debtor, where appropriate,  and 
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary. 
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement if it is 
(a) an agreement secured on land, or 
(b) an agreement under which a person takes an article in pawn.. 
By the time of loan 13 and for all of Miss Vs subsequent loans (1 April 2014 onwards)  this 
requirement to assess creditworthiness moved from S55B of the Consumer Credit Act, to the rules  of 
the new regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Mutual gave  Miss V lending  13 to 18 after the regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees had 
transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014.  Mutual initially 
obtained interim permission to provide consumer  credit before it went  on to successfully apply for 
authorisation. Mutuals interim permission  to provide consumer credit and its eventual  authorisation  to 
do so meant  that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.  
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised
firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  
relevant principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which  says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related 
regulated activities.  It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such  as 
Ref: DRN908124321Mutual. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out 
a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
The starting  point for the relevant rules is Section  5.2.1R(2) of CONC which  sets out what a lender 
needs to do before agreeing  to give a consumer credit  of this type. It says a firm must  consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely
impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account the information of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
(b) the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC also includes  guidance about proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for
example, the type and amount of credit being  sought and the potential risks to the customer.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
the total charge  for credit  relative to the customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contains  further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when  thinking
about affordability. And CONC  5.3.1G(1)  says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability to repay the
credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should
include the firm taking reasonable  steps  to assess the customers ability  to meet repayments
under a regulated  credit  agreement  in a sustainable  manner without  the customer  incurring
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made  by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement  where
the firm knows or ought  reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful  in
completing the application  in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant  to the
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R  (1).
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all
firms allocated  to the High Cost Lenders portfolio,  which  Mutual is part of. This letter  was published 
after Miss Vs agreements  were entered into. But given  that this letter didnt include any new rules  and 
deals with how firms ought to be handling complaints about whether their previous lending  was 
unaffordable, I do think that it offers some insight  on the FCAs  perspective on the rules. So, I do 
consider it to be of some relevance in this case.
The letter set out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers
and the markets  they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out its view of the
Ref: DRN908124322key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed
their strategies and business  models. We considered  a wide range of information  and data,
including firms  regulatory histories, the number and nature of complaints, and findings  from
the HCCR. We also carried  out diagnostic  work on guarantor lenders,  which involved  issuing
a data request  to firms in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways  that consumers may be harmed across the
High Cost Lenders portfolio:
a high volume  of relending, which  may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient, leading  to loans that customers  may not be able 
to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus for all firms in the portfolio  on page three of the letter.
The section entitled Relending says:
Relending:  We have seen a high volume of relending across all credit products in the
portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic  work across  the portfolio  so that we can better
understand the motivation  for, and impact of, relending on both consumers and firms. This
work will examine  aspects of relending such as customers borrowing journeys, firms
marketing strategies  for offering additional credit and the costs of relending for consumers.
We want to understand what harm, if any, relending may cause consumers. As part of this
work, we will proactively engage with home-collected  credit firms to ensure they understand
our expectations. We will also discuss  any changes to their processes  as a result of the new
rules and guidance on relending which  we issued in our December 2018 Policy Statement
on high-cost credit.
The section entitled Affordability says:
Affordability: We recognise that there is an inherent challenge for these  firms in assessing
affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost credit customers finances
are often squeezed and they may have poor credit histories and low financial resilience.
Nevertheless, firms  must  ensure that they are complying with all our affordability
requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the Dear CEO  letter we sent to
HCSTC firms in October 2018. While this letter was aimed at HCSTC firms,  the main
principles are relevant  to all firms in this portfolio.
Finally, under the section entitled  Complaints  it says:
Complaints: We know that there have  been  increasing numbers of complaints about many
of the products in this portfolio. Firms  should ensure that they are handling complaints
appropriately. We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including  analysing the root
causes of complaints and taking  into account the Financial Ombudsman Services relevant
decisions. We gave further detail about  what we expect from firms  complaint-handling
procedures in the Dear CEO letter we issued  to HCSTC firms in October  2018. This is
equally relevant to all firms in the portfolio.
Turning to the Dear  CEO letter  issued  by the FCA on 15 October 2018, which  was mentioned  in the 
Affordability section of the March 2019 FCA letter.  
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published  four examples of determinations of
individual complaints  about payday loans to illustrate  its approach to the issues raised  in
those complaints (see:  https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm).
If relevant, firms should take these examples of determinations  into account as part of
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling  (see DISP 1.3.1R).
Ref: DRN908124323Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged
in our price cap proposals  in CP14/10, in July 2014, in which we said that we were
concerned that repeat borrowing could indicate a pattern of dependency on HCSTC that is
harmful to the borrower. We noted that rigorous affordability assessments were  key to
avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are making  responsible
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.  
Questions for me to consider before deciding  whether Mutual  did anything  wrong when it provided 
Miss V with her loans. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance  and law, I think  the 
overarching questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances 
of this complaint are. When doing, and thinking about our established approach (which can be found 
on our website) for investigating irresponsible lending complaints, Ive considered  three questions  
which are; 
Did Mutual,  each  time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss V would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those  checks have 
shown that Miss V wouldve been  able to do so?
Bearing in mind  the circumstances, at the time of each application,  was there a point  where 
Mutual ought reasonably  to have realised it was increasing Miss Vs indebtedness in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did Mutual  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine  that Mutual did not act fairly and reasonably  in its dealings  with Miss V and that she has 
lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Mutual, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
V would be able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way?
It is important to note that both the OFT and the FCA didnt, and doesnt,  specify  exactly  how an 
assessment of affordability is to be carried  out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources 
of information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess  the sustainability of the 
arrangement for the consumer. Although, the OFTs ILG guidance does provide some examples of 
information a lender may wish to use. 
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment  of the risk to 
the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer  of incurring  financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequence as a result of the decision to lend.
As set out in the ILG and CONC,  the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the 
lending and the circumstances of the consumer.  Therefore,  a lenders assessment of creditworthiness 
would likely need to be adaptable  to the individual needs  and circumstances of a consumer. That is to 
say, what  is sufficient for one consumer might not be for another,  or indeed what  might be sufficient  
for a consumer in one circumstance  might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with the 
circumstance of each request for credit. In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance, the 
greater the potential risk to the consumer  of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Ref: DRN908124324But, certain factors might  point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include, but are not limited 
to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to repay a given loan 
amount from a lower  level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely 
to be greater and the customer  is required  to make payments for an extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given the credit  (reflecting the risk that ongoing use of 
these agreements  may signal that the borrowing  had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Mutual considers its checks  were  proportionate especially when,  Mutual says their home  credit  loans 
are cheaper  (interest  rate is smaller and so less is charged)  compared  to their competitors. 
It seems that these were home collected loans  its likely that in order to complete the affordability 
assessment, Mutuals representative visited the customers home  and carried out a detailed income 
and expenditure assessment.
It says that it also provided the customer details  of the loan or hire-purchase agreement at this face to 
face meeting - this included details of the total amount repayable, weekly repayments,  interest costs 
and APR. The agent then returned with the loan or credit  application where  their line manager either 
approved or refused the credit. The manager made a manual  underwriting assessment with input 
from the agent about  the customers  circumstances. The manager also referred to previous payment 
history and carried out a full credit check especially on loans of more than £1,000.  
Loans 1 - 3
I think  this was proportionate for loan 1. Mutual recorded Miss Vs income  as being  around £350 a 
week. Mutual says that Miss V didnt  declare any credit commitments at the time the loan was 
approved. No expenditure information has been  provided, but Mutual  says that doesnt mean these 
werent taken  only that the records no longer exist. Given the loan was taken  out in 2011  I dont 
consider that to be unreasonable.  
The agreement was set up to run for a very long time at 102 weeks.  But the weekly repayment of 
£11.39 was a modest proportion  of Miss Vs declared income. So, on balance, and in this early  stage 
of the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Mutual to rely on the information it was 
provided. And this showed that the lending was likely  to be affordable for Miss V, even over this 
prolonged period. 
While loan 1 was still being repaid, Mutual approved loans 2 and 3. Based on what  Mutual has told us 
it seems that for these loans Miss V declared  the same  income that she had for loan 1. And again, no 
credit commitments were  declared and there isnt any information to available  to show what  Miss Vs 
expenditure was. And even  after these loans were  approved, Miss Vs total weekly  commitment to 
Mutual was £27.85 which  is in my view, still a relevantly modest amount compared  to Miss Vs 
declared weekly income of £350. 
Miss V hadnt  had any problems repaying loan up to the point that loan 2 was approved,  some five 
months later.  Mutual says this loan was for MOT and car repairs. As Ive said this loan was taken  out 
around five months  after the start of the lending relationship  with Mutual. And this loan was due to run 
for 51 weeks  so effectively, Miss V was committing herself to be indebted to Mutual  for what  
wouldve been  close to 18 months  by the time these loans were fully repaid.  
Ref: DRN908124325When loan 3 was approved,  1 and 2 were still outstanding.  Miss V had already been indebted to 
Mutual for around nine months, and the third loan was due to run for another 51 weeks.  So again, had 
the loans run to term, Miss V was committed to being  indebted to Mutual  for a period of around 21 
months. And as Ive said, although the repayments were modest compared to Miss Vs income,  these  
commitments were now increasing, and had more than tripled since loan one had been granted. 
While, I think  that Mutual wouldve had some  information before  these loans were  approved  such as 
the purpose of loans  2 and 3, given the increased  weekly  repayments along with the increase term 
which in term meant an increasing the amount of time that Miss V was indebted to Mutual, I think its 
checks ought  to have gone further. 
So, given Mutuals obligations under  the ILG, I consider  it fair, reasonable and proportionate for it to 
have taken further  steps  to confirm the information Miss V was providing it about her income  and 
expenditure  for loan 2 and all subsequent agreements. I think  it should have  taken steps at that time 
to have verified Miss Vs true financial position. 
It could have  done this by asking Miss V to provide  supporting evidence such as payslips, utility  bills, 
or bank statements. I dont  think Mutuals  checks achieved this. In particular, as Ive already 
explained, Ive seen very little evidence that it looked at Miss Vs expenditure  at all for these earlier 
loans. 
I think  this is relevant, because the regulations throughout the entire time that Miss V had a 
relationship with Mutual made  it clear that where  income  and expenditure  is used in an affordability 
assessment, it may not be proportionate to rely solely  on a statement made  by the borrower.       
To help us understand for ourselves what Mutual would  more  likely than not have  discovered if it had 
completed reasonable  and proportionate checks  before providing these credit agreements, we would  
normally ask Miss V for her bank statements, credit file or any other information  they are able to 
provide to show what her actual financial position was. But Miss V hasnt been able to provide these. 
This means,  Ive not seen enough to be able to conclude that that Miss V lost out as a result of Mutual 
not carrying  out, in my view a proportionate check. So, Im not minded to uphold  Miss Vs complaint 
about loans 1 to 3. 
Loans 4 and 5
The adjudicator however, did think that loans  4 and 5 shouldnt have been provided. This is because  
when loan 4 was approved loans  1  3 were still outstanding and when loan 5 was approved loans 1 
and 3  4 were  outstanding. Loan  5 was also taken  out a couple of days  after Miss V had settled  loan 
2. And this, in the adjudicators view was a sign that Miss V was having  problems  managing her 
money. 
I acknowledge here that Mutual has been able to provide  this service  with some more information  
about the income  and expenditure information Miss V provided when these  loans were approved. For 
example, for loan 4 Mutual  says Miss V declared  outgoings  of £440 and no credit commitments.  And 
based on the information Mutual  gathered from Miss V it believed these loans to be affordable. 
Especially, in light of the fact, all the repayments for previous  loans had been paid on time,  so it didnt 
consider that there  was any sign Miss V may have had wider financial problems. 
I still think, as Ive said above that Mutual needed to have been verifying the information that Miss V 
was providing  and as Ive explained, it isnt possible  to recreate  what Mutual may have seen by 
carrying out a proportionate checks  because we havent been  provided any information  from Miss V 
about her finances at the time. However, that doesnt mean I dont think  Mutual did something wrong  
when approving these loans.  
Like the adjudicator I agree  that by loan 4, Miss V already had three outstanding  loans with Mutual  
and her monthly commitment to Mutual was increasing.  I think  that this ought to have alerted you to 
the possibility that Miss V might have been having problems managing  her money. Essentially, Miss V 
Ref: DRN908124326hadnt repaid any of her earlier debt and there were no signs  that her financial situation was 
improving. In these circumstances, I think Mutual ought to have realised  it was more  unlikely than not 
that Miss V wouldnt been  able to sustainably  repay loan 4.
And a similar  situation arose when  loan 5 was agreed, so for the same reasons  as above,  I still think  
loan 5 shouldnt have been granted  either.
However, I dont think I need to recreate individual, proportionate  affordability checks from loan 6 
onwards in this case. Ill explain why in the next section.
Bearing in mind  the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point  where Mutual  
ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing  Miss Vs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise  harmful  and so shouldnt have  provided further  loans?
In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Miss V by Mutual, 
I also think  its fair and reasonable  to look at the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of Miss Vs lending history with Mutual. This is because,  there may come a point where  the 
lending history  and pattern of lending  itself demonstrates that the lending  was unsustainable.
Referencing the relevant  rules and guidance as summarised in the earlier part of my decision, Mutual  
was required to establish whether Miss V could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because both the ILG and CONC defines sustainable as being without undue  difficulties  and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time and while meeting other 
reasonable commitments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably  to have realised, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without  borrowing further. I think this point  was reached by loan 6.
At this point Mutual ought to have realised Miss V was not managing to repay  her loans 
sustainably. Miss V had been indebted to Mutual for around 16 months. So Mutual ought to 
have realised it was more likely  than not Miss V was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole making her previous  loan repayments was leaving in her finances and that Miss Vs 
indebtedness was unsustainable.
Miss Vs first loan was for £750 and loan 4 was for £500. Although the amount
Miss V was borrowed had slightly  decreased  her actual  monthly commitments were now more 
than three  times  higher from her first loan.  At this point  Mutual ought to have known that it 
was likely  Miss V an ongoing need for this type of credit and was dependent on it.  
From loan 6 onwards  Miss V was provided with new credit  whilst she hadnt repaid other 
loans and she often  had more than one loan running  at once.  
Miss V wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. Loan 18 was taken 
out around five and half years after Miss Vs first. And it was for a larger amount. Miss V had 
in effect paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mutual  over an extended  
period.
Given Miss Vs borrowing behaviour and her overall  indebtedness Ive also considered the HP 
agreements as part of the pattern of lending and her overall intendedness. 
I think  that Miss V lost out because  Mutual continued to provide borrowing  from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Vs indebtedness by allowing her to take 
credit over an extended  period of time.
Ref: DRN908124327the length  of time over which Miss V borrowed  was likely to have had negative implications on 
Miss Vs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market  for these loans.
Mutual has referred to the FCAs High-cost  Credit Review (CP 18/43) and whilst the review 
highlighted that those who use home credit over longer  period do not appear to suffer significant  harm  
in the same way as other parts of the high cost credit markets, it does not follow  that users of home  
credit never  suffer any financial distress. Indeed, the review also highlights that:
there are existing  controls that reduce the risk of unaffordable  debt and financial distress.  These 
include that: 
Firms  must assess  creditworthiness (including affordability) before agreeing any new loan, or 
any significant increase  in credit.
Firms  also have to monitor consumers  repayment  patterns to identify  signs of financial 
distress. They  must  take appropriate action where  there are signs of actual or possible 
repayment difficulties. 
Firms  must also not encourage  a customer to refinance  where the commitments are not 
sustainable or are not in the customers best interests, or do so without the customers 
consent/request.
Ive already explained in this decision why I think that Mutuals creditworthiness  assessments werent 
fair, reasonable and proportionate  and therefore were unlikely to be effective.  And the consultation 
paper CP 18/12 section  3.14 states  that:
we are concerned that there is a small  core of customers who are using home-collected
credit over an extended  period and that some customers are being unduly influenced  by
firms representatives  to keep borrowing.
So, while I acknowledge that the FCA has said that repeat lending wont always  lead to an unfair 
outcome for consumers, the FCAs publications dont specifically state that repeat lending (where  
home-collected credit is concerned) will always be fair reasonable and proportionate in all 
circumstances.
It is worth adding that while I dont consider that my findings are inconsistent  with the content of the 
FCAs publications, I am, in any event, required to decide what  I think  is fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances of Miss Vs case.  
In this particular case, Miss V was in debt to Mutual for around 16 months  when she took loan 6. And 
she hadnt repaid loans 3, 4 or 5. I think that it ought to have been apparent to Mutual  that Miss V was 
unlikely to have been using these loans  as a useful means of managing cyclical income shortfalls   
especially as the monthly repayments were increasing. So, I no longer think these  loans were  
sustainable for Miss V.  
Did Mutual act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything  here that leads me to 
conclude Mutual acted  unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss V in some other way.
Ref: DRN9081243