K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Mrs M opened  a store  card account  in a shop in 1998. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Ms store  card 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of injury  or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
The policy also included life cover  and purchase protection  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ms signed application for the store  card. It includes a section on 
Account Cover (a form of PPI). Theres  a box to tick if the applicant  wishes to take the 
cover. The box is ticked. I think  that it would have been clear to Mrs M from the way the 
form was set out that the PPI was optional. And I think  she decided to take it, knowing 
that she had a choice- although I can understand why she may no longer remember this, 
so many years later.
FICL didnt advise  Mrs M to take out the policy. So it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. But it still needed  to make  sure it gave  Mrs M enough information to 
enable her to decide  for herself  if she wanted PPI, knowing  what  alternative means shed 
have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
Ref: DRN91832962Mrs Ms told us shed have been  entitled to sick pay from her employer if shed been off 
sick. But if shed  made a successful claim on the PPI, it would have paid a monthly 
benefit 15% of what she owed  on her store card. And it would have done this each 
month until her credit  agreement ended, or she returned to work, or the outstanding 
balance had been repaid- whichever was the earliest. So it would potentially have 
covered Mrs M for longer than shes told us shed have been entitled to sick pay for. Ive 
borne in mind that Mrs Ms told us shed  also have been entitled  to some benefits.  But 
from what shed  told us, shed  still have received less than her usual full pay in total if 
shed been off sick for more  than six months.  Whats more, the policy would have  paid 
out in addition  to any payments  Mrs M received from her employer. So she could have 
used those to meet other day-to-day  expenses.
I acknowledge that Mrs Ms told us that she could have relied on her husband to support 
her financially  if necessary.  But circumstances can change,  and I cant be sure that 
Mrs Ms husband would have  been  in a position  to help if the need  had arisen. Taking 
everything into account, I think Mrs M could have found the policy  useful.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But Ive concluded that she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  as if she 
wanted this type of cover,  even if shes understandably forgotten that now. She was 
eligible for the policy, and doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main 
things it didnt cover (for example provisions about  unusual  working  arrangements or 
existing medical conditions).
Im satisfied  that it would have  been  clear from the application  form that there would be 
monthly premiums to pay for the cover. Ive seen  nothing  to suggest  that the policy was 
unaffordable for Mrs M. And since she was paying  for it monthly, she could have  
cancelled it at any time with no further cost if her circumstances changed  or if she 
decided she no longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account,  Im not convinced  that better information about  the PPI 
would have put Mrs M off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result  of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9183296