K820x#14complaint
Mr T says that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
In 1996 Mr T took out a Halifax mortgage  along with PPI to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr T disagrees. He 
mainly says he wasnt aware that he was taking out a PPI policy and he would never have 
opted for it as his job was very secure. Mr T also said PPI wasnt something  he needed as 
he had other  means he couldve  relied on to cover his mortgage monthly repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. But 
that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened.  Mr T told us he took out the PPI 
during a meeting so I think its likely thats  what happened.   
Ive taken into account everything Mr T has told us about the way he says Halifax sold him 
the PPI. But what  Mr T says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr T to recall exactly  what was discussed  at 
the time.  I have to look at everything  and decide,  on balance, what I think is most  likely.  
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Mr Ts 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  So, I can see 
why Mr T mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  I can completely understand why he mightve 
forgotten some of the details  from the sale. On balance, I think  its likely that Mr T decided he 
wanted to have the benefits and security  that PPI offered and he chose to buy the policy. 
As Mr T says he took out the policy during  a meeting, Halifax  looked  at his complaint on the 
basis that it wouldve  advised him to take out PPI. Given  the lack of paperwork showing how 
Halifax sold Mr T the PPI, I think this is the fairest way to assess  this complaint as it imposes  
extra obligations on the lender. If a business  makes  a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt 
just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Ref: DRN94063362Mr T was eligible  for the PPI. The policy wouldve  paid out in full for up to 12 months per 
claim in the event of an accident or illness that prevented Mr T from working.  So it provided 
better cover than his sick pay entitlement  from his employer  as he wouldve only been on 
half pay after the first 6 months off work. The policy wouldve paid out on top of work 
benefits. Bearing in mind  that Mr T mightve also had some additional costs if he was too 
unwell to go back to work  or disabled, I think this couldve been  a useful benefit at a difficult 
time.   
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure.  The policy  wouldve also paid 
out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr T lost his job and became unexpectedly 
unemployed. 
And Mr T couldve  made repeated claims on the policy, giving him long term protection  for 
his mortgage.
I dont know if Mr T wouldve always had savings  to rely on if hed needed to make  a claim 
as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And it looks like he preferred not to spend  savings,  or he had other  plans for that money, 
since he took out this mortgage rather than invest all his savings  in buying the house. Having 
PPI meant Mr T could depend on being able to continue  to keep savings intact  to spend on 
other things  or to provide  financial  security  for the future. 
Mr T mentioned having good redundancy benefits, but this wouldnt have helped Mr T if hed 
had an accident  or was disabled and unable to go back  to work. Having PPI meant any lump  
sum would be protected, giving him additional financial security. And Mr T could be sure hed 
always be able to keep  up the monthly repayments  in order to protect  his home.
So, looking  at Mr Ts circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible  some information Halifax gave Mr T about the policy  wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it doesnt look as if he was affected by any of the main  things the policy 
didnt cover. So, I dont  think  having  more information about  the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mr Ts decision to take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr T when he bought the policy. But, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that he couldnt  afford the monthly premiums at the time. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr T wouldve made a 
different decision about  taking  out the policy  if better  information had been provided.  On 
balance, I think hed still have taken it out. 
So I dont  find that Mr T has lost out as a result of anything  Halifax  may have done wrong. 
This means  it doesnt need to do anything  to put things right.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken carefully  into account all Mr Ts comments, including 
what hes said about the way that other  PPI cases have been dealt with. But Ive looked at 
the circumstances that apply  in his particular case and what  happened on other  cases 
doesnt change  my conclusion here. 
Ref: DRN94063363my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9406336