K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wont pay his estate agents' 
fees following  on from a home insurance  claim.
background
Mr M made a home insurance claim in February  2017 following a water  leak in his bathroom. 
Lloyds accepted the claim. For various reasons the claim didnt proceed smoothly. Mr M and 
his family  were in alternative accommodation  and by September  2017 the repairs which  had 
started towards the end of August were found to be defective, so this extended the time 
needed to carry  them out. On 10 September Mr M put his house  on the market. The repairs  
were completed around the end of October.  Mr M received an offer from a potential buyer in 
mid-January, but he withdrew the house from the market as he believed the work hadnt  
been completed to the standard expected for a sale. His agreement with the estate agents 
meant that he had to pay their fee of £1,233.  He believes Lloyds should be responsible  for 
this.
Lloyds said Mr M was aware when he put the house on the market  that the repairs  hadnt 
been completed. It nevertheless says the repairs have now been  satisfactorily  completed.  It 
understands from the estate agents that the fee is a one-off  charge  and Mr M is free to put 
the house back on the market with them for no further charge.
On referral to this service  our investigator  didnt  uphold  the complaint as she wasnt satisfied 
that Mr M had made a financial loss.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision solely concerns the question of the estate agents fees. Mr M has had a 
complaint determined by this service in respect  of the other  aspects of his claim. So I have to 
determine whether  Lloyds  should  be responsible for Mr Ms financial loss of the estate 
agents' fees. 
Mr M put his house on the market for sale, and signed an agreement with the estate agents 
on 10 September 2017. That agreement  meant  that he had to pay the agents'  fees whether 
or not a buyer was found  and proceeded with. At the time of putting  the house  on the 
market, Mr M knew that the repairs had been  delayed and had already been contacted by 
the loss adjusters with a view to extending the alternative accommodation he and his family 
were in. So he knew at that time the property  wouldnt be ready.
Mr M didnt  withdraw the property from the market until 14 January 2018. The repairs had 
been completed around the end of October, subject to a few snagging  issues, which,  Im 
informed were resolved.  As Ive said, all other issues concerning  the claim itself were   
determined in Mr Ms other complaint. So I dont think that his withdrawing the house from 
the market was due to any fault on Lloyds part.
In any event Mr M had the option of putting  the house back on the market  and didnt do so. 
Again I dont think his decision not to do so is related to Lloyds handling of his claim. 
Ref: DRN92040962So overall I dont  think that Mr M incurred  the estate agents' fee due to any fault on the part 
of Lloyds. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9204096