K820x#14complaint
Mr P brings the complaint  as executor  on behalf  of the estate of the late Mr R. The complaint 
is that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  refused  to pay Mr R the correct 
benefit under his pet insurance  policy. 
My references to Red Sands include its agents.  
background
Last month I issued a provisional decision, which forms part of this final decision. I explained 
that I wasnt likely to uphold the complaint. I asked for any responses to my provisional 
decision by a given  date. This is what  I said in my provisional decision:
Mr R took out pet insurance with Red Sands for his cat. When he applied for the policy he 
told Red Sands hed paid £400 for his cat. 
In 2018 Mr Rs cat sadly  died. He was four years  old. Mr R made a claim to Red Sands for 
the death benefit under the policy.
Red Sands  asked Mr R for some  information including any pedigree  certificate and a receipt 
showing the amount  hed paid for the cat. Mr R said he didnt  have to provide this as he was 
claiming the maximum benefit  of £1,000 (less  the £99 excess)  as shown in his policy  
documents. 
Red Sands  said Mr R was covered for a percentage of the market value, price paid or the 
amount specified  in his policy schedule, whichever was the lesser. He would need to send a 
receipt for the cat or other  evidence to show the price hed paid, otherwise the maximum 
payment under the policy was £25. Mr R came  to us.
Our investigator said Red Sands hadnt made the policy terms clear to Mr R when hed 
applied for it. Mr R said hed thought  his cat was covered  for a maximum benefit of £1,000  
and this had been a factor in his choice of cover. But our investigator said that Red Sands 
could deduct 50% using  a sliding scale in the policy terms. So she recommended Red 
Sands should  pay Mr R £500 plus £100  for upset, confusion and loss of expectation.  
Mr R agreed to the proposed settlement. But Red Sands said this wasnt  fair, saying that it 
wasnt fair for Mr R to receive more than hed paid for his cat. This went  against the basic  
principle of insurance. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaints come to me for 
review.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Im sorry  that Mr R lost his cat. And given the circumstances  Im also sorry that Ill now have 
to disappoint him but Im not likely  to uphold this complaint. 
Mr R applied for a pet insurance policy, which provided cover for a range of situations 
including the death of his cat from illness or injury. 
Ref: DRN90306972The policy documents that Red Sands is relying  on comprise the policy schedule and the 
policy document, which it calls the complete guide to the policy.  The guide includes the 
policy summary or key facts.
The policy schedule reflects the price  Mr R told Red Sands hed paid for his cat, which  was 
£400. On the second page the policy lists the maximum benefits before any excess.  The list 
included an unlimited lifetime condition limit, a £4,000  annual  condition limit and £1,000 for 
death of pet.
I dont think the policy  schedule, even read as a standalone document,  can reasonably be 
read to say that Mr R would receive  £1,000 on the death of his cat. It shows the maximum 
benefits under that level of cover  not the amount hed receive for each heading. Its a 
standard table  of benefits for the Superior Plus level of cover  that hed chosen. And 
importantly the schedule says that it should  be read with the Complete Guide to his pet 
policy. It also says that the documents should  be read carefully to ensure the policy  meets 
the Mr Rs requirements. 
I think the cover set out in the policy guide  is reasonably clear  as well. The policy  key facts  
says under Death, Theft or Straying  that We will provide cover for; A percentage of the 
market value, purchase price or the amount  specified in your schedule, up to the maximum 
benefit limit, if your pet dies,  is lost or stolen. The maximum benefit  limit of £1,000  is 
repeated in that section. There isnt any excess listed for this section  of the policy. 
The policy summary  or key facts  isnt intended  to set out the full policy  cover, but it includes 
the significant exclusions or limitations. The summary shows the page in the document  
where the full cover  is detailed. 
Section 2 sets out the cover for the death of a cat from illness  or injury. It says that We will 
pay a percentage  of the market value,  the price paid or the amount specified in your 
schedule (whichever is the lesser) if your pet dies during the policy  year or is put down for 
humane reasons  because  of injury or illness that happened or started during the policy  
period, taking into account  the age, breed and condition of your pet. 
The policy then lists the percentages  Red Sands  would pay, which  depends on the age of 
the pet, being 100% for a pet up to 1 year in a sliding scale  going down to 50% for a pet 
aged 3 years up to 5 years. 
The amount  specified in Mr Rs schedule is £400,  and thats the price he says he paid for the 
cat. Ive not seen  any evidence  to suggest that £400 is more than the market value of the cat 
(if it was then Red Sands  could pay a lower amount than £400). So under the policy,  Mr R is 
entitled to a percentage of the £400,  being  the lesser of the three  values. As his cat was 
4 years old then the percentage Red Sands will pay is 50% of £400, or £200. But this is 
subject to evidence  of the amount he paid for his cat. 
Mr R says his cat isnt a pedigree. But even so hes required to provide Red Sands with a 
receipt to show the price  he paid for the cat. Thats clearly set out in the policy.  Red Sands  
has fairly said that if Mr R cant provide a receipt then it will accept alternative reasonable 
evidence such as a bank statement showing the purchase price transaction, or showing the 
withdrawal of funds or a bank transfer.  I think thats  a reasonable alternative for proof of 
purchase. If Mr R cant provide this evidence of the price he paid for his cat then I agree Red 
Sands has properly explained  to him that the most it will pay under the policy  terms is £25. 
Ref: DRN90306973Mr R thinks that the policy  documents werent  clear  and he says that this influenced his 
decision about the policy cover. But I dont agree the policy documents were  unclear. So 
I dont intend to award Mr R any compensation. 
Even if Id reached a different  finding on this point I should say its unlikely, in my experience, 
that Mr R could have  insured  his cat for more than the price hed paid for him.
responses
Mr P responded to say that this complaint had begun last year and that his relative  Mr R had 
passed away earlier in 2019. He explained he was the executor of Mr Rs estate. 
Mr P didnt agree with my provisional findings  and on behalf of Mr R asked me to explain my 
comments The policy summary  or key facts isnt intended to set out the full policy cover. 
He questioned what documentation  a customer was supposed to rely on, when deciding the 
level of cover to pay for. He also asked whether Red Sands had ever paid out £1,000  (the 
maximum benefit limit)  for the death of a pet.
Red Sands  responded to say it agreed  with my provisional decision and didnt have anything 
further to add. We have  since  told Red Sands that Mr R has passed  away.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry  to hear that Mr R has passed  away. I send my condolences to Mr P and his 
family. 
Ive considered Mr Ps comments  but Im afraid they dont change  my view of the complaint. 
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons given in my provisional decision and here. 
The key facts document sets out the important information about the policys  benefits  and 
any significant exclusions or policy conditions. The full information is in the policy document. 
The key facts document sets out the benefit limits  and any significant policy exclusions and 
conditions. So the maximum  benefit limit for the death of a pet is £1,000, but the policy key 
facts also lists the maximum benefit for the other  areas of the policy.  The different types of 
policy have varying  levels of cover compared  to the premium paid. I think there was enough  
information to make an informed decision about  the policy level required.
 
I can only decide this complaint so I cant say whether Red Sands has paid £1,000 for the 
death of another consumers pet. But some pets do cost more  than £1,000  particularly 
pedigree pets  and so if a consumer  could show theyd  paid,  say, £1,200  for their pet and 
the pet died at a young age due to illness or injury then the maximum of £1,000  could be 
paid. 
If Mr P wishes to pursue  the insurance  claim on behalf of the estate  then he can let 
Red Sands  know, and it will inform  him of the information it requires. 
Ref: DRN90306974my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold his complaint. This is because I think  
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  has made a reasonable offer to review  the 
late Mr Rs claim on receipt  of evidence to show he paid £400  for his cat. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P, as executor 
on behalf of the estate  of the late Mr R to accept  or reject my decision before 
26 December 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9030697