K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) when she took out a store 
card.
Its agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer,  
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to FICL  in my 
decision.
background
In 1999, Mrs B applied  for a store card by completing an application form in a store.  At the 
same time, she was sold a PPI policy. The policy cost £1.00 for every £100  Mrs B owed on 
her store card. It wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance  on the card each month if 
Mrs B couldnt work because she had an accident, was too unwell to work or lost her job. 
The policy also gave Mrs B price  and purchase  protection and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Mrs B disagreed  so the complaint  has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I explain why below.
Mrs B and FICL  agree  the PPI was sold in store. However, theres  limited  information 
available to me about what happened at the time of sale. Because  of this, I dont know  what  
may or may not have  been said. So I have to decide whats more likely to have happened  
based on the information Ive been  given.
Ive looked to see whether it was made it clear enough to Mrs B that she was free to choose  
PPI. And, reading the credit agreement  signed by Mrs B, I think  it was clear she had a 
choice.
Ive looked at the copy of the agreement Mrs B signed and I can see that she signed the 
agreement twice  once for the store card and once for PPI. If she hadnt wanted to take out 
the PPI, I think Mrs B couldve chosen  not to sign the relevant section of the agreement  and 
left it blank like she did in the other optional sections in the agreement.  So I think  Mrs B 
knew the PPI was optional and chose  to take it.
And as this was a monthly policy, the premiums wouldve appeared on her monthly 
statements. So, if Mrs B didnt mean to take PPI on this store card,  I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for her to query the premiums  sooner than she did.
From everything Ive seen  and what we know about sales of this type, I dont think Mrs B 
was advised to take out PPI. This means  it was for Mrs B to decide  herself  whether the PPI 
was suitable for her circumstances and any benefits,  such  as sick pay or savings she had. 
But Mrs B still had to be given enough clear  information about  the PPI so she could make an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it.
Ref: DRN95097082It appears Mrs B may have had some information  about the policy  available to her at the 
time  the credit agreement suggests  further details were available.  But I dont know exactly 
what this wouldve included. And it seems that some of the information wouldve been sent 
to Mrs B after she agreed to take out the PPI. So this wouldnt have been available  to her 
when she was deciding  if she wanted PPI. 
However, even if Mrs B had been  given better information about  the PPI, I dont think this 
wouldve stopped  her taking it out. I say this because:
-Mrs B was eligible  for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
terms which can make it difficult  for someone to claim like being self-employed.  
-At the time of the sale Mrs B says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay but had 
no other  means to make her repayments  if she was unable to work or lost her job. But 
the policy  wouldve paid out on top of any work  benefits and for potentially longer. So I 
think the policy wouldve  provided  a useful benefit for her in her circumstances.
-Although the cost of the policy was often higher than other similar  types of policy  sold at 
the time, the monthly amount paid out was also greater and gave the consumer 
additional benefits such as price and purchase protection.
-As this was a monthly policy, Mrs B couldve  cancelled it any time, without cost to her. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs B on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited her needs and was of 
value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Financial 
Insurance Company Limited .
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019  
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9509708