K821x#15complaint
Mrs T is complaining that she wasnt made aware that she was taking out a fixed sum loan 
agreement (loan) with 3J Finance Limited (3J) to fund an online  education  course for her 
son with a supplier  that I will call E. Shes  also unhappy she wasnt  allowed to cancel it.
background
Mrs T received a pamphlet from her sons school advertising Es services.  Mrs T thought 
some tutoring would  boost her sons education. So, she contacted  E and in March 2017  one 
of its representatives  visited  her at her home   following which  she entered her son onto a 
Maths and English course, which  cost £2,680. She entered into a four-year  finance  
agreement with 3J to pay for it.
In February 2018  Mrs T contacted E to say they were having  trouble logging onto the course  
and wanted to cancel it. E says it subsequently sought to call Mrs T but was unable  to speak 
with her so emailed her asking her to call. In April and May 2018 Mrs T emailed E again 
asking to cancel  the course.  E says it tried to call her again  but couldnt  speak  with her. 
Mrs T cancelled the direct  debit repaying the finance in June 2018.
In August  2018  Mrs T contacted E again to say she was in financial difficulty and wanted to 
cancel the course.  She said shed asked to cancel the course a number of times but hadnt 
been able to do so. E said the cancellation  period had passed so she wasnt able to cancel  
the course. Mrs T complained that she thought  she was paying  for a subscription service  
and was told she could  cancel at any time. She said she wasnt using the course anymore 
as theyd had to move into rented accommodation because  their house was flooded.  E 
advised Mrs T to contact 3J as the finance  provider if she was in financial difficulties and 
unable to keep  up with the monthly payments.
In November 2018 Mrs T spoke with 3J to enquire about entering  into a repayment plan. 3J 
said it would  need  to carry out an income and expenditure assessment and it sent her an 
income and expenditure form to complete. Mrs T returned the form but 3J said it was 
incomplete so it returned it to her asking her to complete the parts  that werent completed. 
Mrs T says she returned it again, but 3J says it didnt receive it. 
I issued a provisional decision in February  2021 upholding the complaint and I said the 
following:
Mrs T paid for the course through  a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain  circumstances, as the finance provider, 3J is jointly 
liable for any breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply  here.
Further to this, section  56 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 has the effect  of making  E the 
agent of 3J during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs T entering  into the loan 
agreement, starting  from when she was first approached by E. But essentially, this means  3J 
is responsible for the acts or omissions of E in relation to the sale of the loan to Mrs T. In 
other words, 3J has to stand behind the things  E said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the 
sales process.
Mrs T is unhappy  she wasnt allowed  to cancel the course when she got into financial 
difficulties. She says she thought she was paying  a monthly subscription  towards  it and was 
Ref: DRN98786702told by the salesman she could cancel at any time. She says she was misled into entering 
into the course and the finance agreement.
Under the terms of the finance, Mrs T had the right to withdraw  from it within 14 days, but 
after that it was a non-cancellable contract. Mrs T maintains she was told she could cancel it 
at any time and thought she was taking out a monthly subscription. She says she wouldnt 
have entered  into the course  had she known shed have to continue to pay for it for four 
years. She also says she didnt know she was entering into a finance agreement. So I think  
the key issues  I have to think  about  is whether the course and finance agreement  were 
misrepresented to her.
I note 3J say the primary focus should  be on the paperwork Mrs T signed. I agree that we 
must take the paperwork into consideration  particularly in assessing whether theres a 
breach of contract or not. But I also need  to take into account the salesmans responsibilities  
to provide clear  information to enable Mrs T to make an informed choice before she agreed 
to enter  into the course. And I dont think the finance agreement is necessarily always an 
accurate description  of the conversations that were had before the contract  started. 
In arranging the loan between Mrs T and 3J, E was acting as a credit broker. The Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  has set out what it expects a responsible credit broker to do and it 
does so in the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook  (CONC). As the lender, these regulations and 
guidance dont  apply to 3J directly.  But I think E was acting on 3Js behalf in arranging the 
finance agreement. So its something  I need to think about in this decision.
CONC 4.2.5 R requires  brokers  to provide  what is described as adequate explanations, 
which include explanations  of the following things:
a)  the features  of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided  under the 
agreement unsuitable  for particular types  of use;
b)how much the customer  will have to pay periodically  and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under the agreement;
c)the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which  would have a 
significant adverse effect  on the customer in a way which  the customer  is unlikely to 
foresee;
d)the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make payments 
under the agreement at the times required by the agreement  including, where applicable 
and depending upon  the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of the 
customer:
(i)the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii)incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment  or under-payment;
(iii)impaired credit rating and its effect on future  access to or cost of credit;
(iv)legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders  (or, in Scotland,  inhibitions), 
and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v)repossession  of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi)where an article  is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not redeemed;  and
e)the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how and 
when this right may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2 R refers  back to CONC 4.2.5 R and states:
Ref: DRN98786703A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise  or induce a customer to enter into a 
regulated credit agreement quickly without allowing the customer  time to consider the 
precontract information under section 55 of the CCA  and the explanations provided under 
CONC 4.2.5 R.
CONC 2.5.3 R sets out more general  expectations  from the FCA as to how a credit broker 
should conduct itself, explaining  that a broker must:
2)  take reasonable steps to satisfy  itself that a product it wishes  to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable  for the customer's needs  and circumstances;
3)advise a customer  to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, the 
terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer  hire agreement  before entering 
into it;
The FCA also sets out more general principles  which it expects financial firms (including E 
and 3J) to follow, and there are two which  are of particular relevance  here:
6 Customers' interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
7 Communications  with clients
A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading.
Having set out the relevant regulatory background, Ive also thought about how E sold the 
product Mrs T purchased. I think its likely  that the nature of this product and the way it was 
sold is likely to have influenced  Mrs Ts assumptions  about  how she was going to be paying 
for it.
E marketed  the programme as an affordable, online alternative to private English and Maths 
tuition for a child. I think parents will typically pay for private tuition by the hour, although 
tutors may sometimes offer discounts for bulk-bookings. There  are a number of online-based 
services available. But in my experience, and based on my further  research, these are often 
offered on a subscription basis  ranging from one month up to a year.  E itself appeared, 
based on statements  on its website  and on other  documents its provided us, to have offered 
a monthly subscription  or pay as you go service as an alternative to the Lifetime  Licence 
model that it sold to Mrs T. 
From what  Ive seen, the Lifetime Licence model  appears to operate differently as the 
applicant has to make a single large  upfront payment and this gives the child access  Es 
programme for the duration of their schooling up to GCSE. Due to the substantial size of 
payment required,  the applicant often had to take out a loan to cover it, and these loans are 
not cancellable. So this ultimately means that, once a person has signed  up for the 
programme and the loan, they cant cancel and are committed  to repaying the loan after 
14 days have passed. This seems  to me to be an unusual model to adopt for a childs  tuition 
due to its lack of flexibility. I dont think its uncommon for children to change tutors for a 
variety of reasons.  So I think most parents are likely to value flexibility  when considering 
either face to face or online tuition.
Ref: DRN98786704Bearing all of the above in mind I think, in general, when a parent asks to learn more about 
the programme,  they would  assume that it was being offered on a subscription  basis.  I think 
its unlikely they would  think they were  going  to be signing up for a long-term commitment 
paid for, up front,  by a loan. Because E was offering  a very different proposition with long-
term financial implications, I think it needed to make this very clear.
In thinking about this case, Ive taken  Mrs Ts testimony into account and, in particular, 
whether Im persuaded  by what  shes  told us given what  subsequently happened and what  
we know about  the product she ultimately bought.
Weve spoken  to Mrs T to understand why she enquired about  the course in the first place. 
She explained she wasnt actively looking for tutoring,  but was interested in getting  him a 
boost in his education.
I dont think Mrs T was looking for a long-term  tutoring commitment and I think  its likely she 
would have wanted to have the option  to cancel the contract. So, on balance,  I dont think its 
likely she would have entered into a four-year  contract, unless she was given an indication 
she could cancel it at any point.
Ive considered 3Js comments that Mrs T signed  the agreement. But from what I know  of 
the sales process, the salesman would  have asked Mrs T to tick a box on a tablet to 
electronically sign the documents. I can see Mrs T electronically signed the following: 
the finance agreement
the enrolment application
the terms and conditions
declaration of affordability
customer clarification and satisfaction  form
But I can also see that she signed  them all at 18:31. I dont think its likely she could have 
signed them  separately at precisely the same  time  I think  its likely there would have been 
a slight delay if shes been asked to sign them separately. So I think its most  likely she 
ticked separate boxes  to electronically sign the documents. And Im not persuaded she 
would have been given a copy of the agreement to review before she signed them.  
I note 3J has said Mrs T was given an opportunity to review  the finance agreement before 
she ticked the box to enter into the agreement. But I havent seen anything to support this. I 
dont disagree  with 3J that it was Mrs Ts responsibility to understand what  she was entering  
into. But, at the same  time, CONC particularly sets out that the salesman had a duty to 
ensure she had enough information about the credit agreement  as I set out above  and 
about the finance in respect to Es responsibility as a credit broker before she agreed  to 
enter into the course and finance agreement.
Its also worth noting that the FCA has written to credit brokers  outlining some key risks it 
believes they should consider and act upon.  The FCA said it had found firms  brokering  credit 
agreements with third party finance providers had poor oversight  of staff, leaving sales 
practices unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor 
consumer outcomes. In particular it referenced brokers which sell products in the home as 
potentially presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially if sales  took place without 
appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis.
Ref: DRN98786705While no specific  firms  were mentioned  in the FCAs letter,  Im mindful of the fact that in 
Mrs Ts case  E was brokering a credit  agreement with a third-party finance provider in order  
to sell her a product,  in her home, and the FCA has identified this scenario as potentially 
presenting a higher risk of consumer harm including mis-selling.
Mrs T has said throughout she thought she was taking out a monthly subscription to a 
tutoring service. Given what I know about what Mrs T wanted to use the training for, Im not 
persuaded she would have entered  into the course  and agreement if shed known it was a 
four-year commitment. I think Mrs T has been consistent in what  shes  told us about  what 
happened. And, Ive ultimately  found  her testimony  to be plausible and persuasive. 
Ive seen some of the training material provided  by E to its salespeople,  which  I understand 
was current at the point Mrs T entered into the finance agreement. When  covering how to 
explain the financial aspects of the sale, E doesnt refer to the word  loan  anywhere in these 
training materials. Instead, I think the focus seems  to have  been  on setting an affordable  
monthly payment  and, it seems to me, the wording is fashioned in such a way as to avoid 
making the arrangement sound  like a loan.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think the salesman did explain everything to 
Mrs T as clearly  as he should  have  done.  And I think Mrs T has lost out as a result  of whats 
happened.
That said,  Mrs T has had a benefit  from the course because her son did use it for around  
12 months and had completed a reasonable proportion of it. So I think  its fair she pays for 
some of the amount payable. I understand Mrs T stopped paying the finance around 
June 2018  around 15 months into the agreement.
Taking everything into account,  I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that 3J 
waives the outstanding balance on the finance  agreement. And it can retain the payments 
Mrs T made up to June 2018 reflect the usage  her son has had from the course.  But Im 
conscious Mrs T made four ad hoc payments since June 2018  and I understand she recently 
started to repay the finance agreement  again.  So I think 3J should refund any payments 
Mrs T has made  since June 2018.  It should  also add 8% simple  interest  per year on any 
payments refunded from when she paid them until she gets them back.
As I dont think Mrs T would have entered  into this finance agreement  had she been given 
sufficient information  at the outset, I dont think it fair that it continues  to appear on her credit  
file. So I think 3J should remove any record of the agreement from Mrs Ts credit file.
Mrs T responded to accept my provisional  decision. 3J didnt respond to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything new to think about I see no reason  to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN98786706my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require 3J Finance  Limited to do the following to put things right:
1.refund  any payments  Mrs T has made  since June 2018. It should also add 8% simple 
interest per year on any payments refunded from when she paid them until she gets 
them back. If 3J Finance Limited  thinks that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs T how much  its taken off. It should 
also give her a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate; and
2.should remove any record of the agreement from Mrs Ts credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9878670