K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that they were  mis-sold  a Select sole account  to Mrs M and a joint 
Silver account to them both by TSB Bank  Plc (TSB). 
background
Mrs M held an account with TSB from 1992. This later became a Select account which  
incurred a monthly fee.
Mr and Mrs M took out a fee free joint account in May 2011.
Mr and Mrs M took out a joint Silver account  which incurred a monthly  fee in June 2011. 
Mr and Mrs M say that the Select account  was mis -sold to Mrs M; and they say the joint 
Silver account was mis-sold to them both.
TSB has offered to uphold their complaint about Mrs Ms Select  account  and have offered Mr 
and Mrs M redress.
TSB says that the joint Silver account was not mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and decided  that the joint Silver 
account wasnt mis-sold. Mr and Mrs M disagree so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
As TSB has upheld Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  about  the Select account sale to Mrs M and 
offered to pay redress in line with the approach this service would take,  I dont need  to 
consider that aspect  of their complaint any further.  I will only look at their complaint about  the 
joint Silver  account.
In my view, I dont think Mr and Mrs M lost out when they were sold the joint Silver account 
and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they were told at the time of the sale that they had to take out at least one 
packaged bank  account with a fee, so they took out the Silver account.
So I need to consider whether or not Mr and Mrs M were  aware  the Silver account was 
optional and whether they were given a clear choice in taking out the account.
I think its more likely than not that they were aware and I say this for the following reasons.
TSB has provided evidence that Mrs M had a fee free account for many  years,  and Mr and 
Mrs M had a fee free account for a month before they took out the Silver  account. Mrs M had 
also had a Select account for many  years before the sale and so in my view had a good 
knowledge of what a packaged bank  account was. And whilst I dont doubt their honest 
Ref: DRN94163112recollections I think its more likely  than not that at the time of sale Mr and Mrs M were aware 
that both TSB and other  banks  and financial institutions offered  continuing  fee free bank  
accounts. I say this because they were widely advertised in a competitive market. And if Mr 
and Mrs M hadnt wanted to pay a fee for an account, I think  they would have questioned 
what they were being offered and sought an alternative without a fee elsewhere.
So I think Mr and Mrs M were aware they had a choice and chose to take out the Silver 
account.
Mr and Mrs M say that TSB advised  them to take out the Silver account. TSB says it didnt.  
Im going  to assume that TSB did advise them to take it out as this is to Mr and Mrs Ms 
advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision.
So, TSB needed to provide Mr and Mrs M with sufficient information about  the Silver  account 
to make an informed choice. And in recommending the Silver  account, it also needed to take 
adequate steps to ensure  that it was a reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances.
The Silver account contained a range of benefits including  European travel insurance,  AA 
car breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance,  and Sentinel payment card protection.
I dont know what TSB said or what information  it gave Mr and Mrs M about  the Silver  
account but as it was trying to sell the account  to them,  I think its more likely  than not that it 
would have provided a substantial description. 
And I think the Silver  account  was suitable for them. I say this because  TSB has provided 
evidence that shortly after taking out the account  they registered  a mobile phone for 
insurance, and in the years that followed they made  a car breakdown claim. And there 
wasnt anything about their circumstances that would have stopped them  from using the 
benefits. 
I note that they dont  appear to have  used the European travel insurance,  but it was for them  
to decide which benefits of the account to use, and in my view this doesnt  make the account 
unsuitable for them.
So I think Mr and Mrs M knew they had a choice when they took out the Silver account  and 
they chose to take it out. I think the Silver  account was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M. And there  
was no information  that Mr and Mrs M didnt  receive  from TSB that would likely have put 
them off taking it out. So I dont think Mr and Mrs M lost out when they took out the Silver 
account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9416311