K820x#14complaint
Ms V complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund a payment  made on her credit card to a 
secondary ticket selling website (the Website)  for three tickets to an event. 
background
In November 2017 three tickets were purchased through the Website to attend an event in 
2018 using Ms Vs Lloyds credit card. The total cost charged to her card was just over £280.
Later Ms V says she discovered the tickets she bought had been resold and had someone 
elses name on them. Ms V notes  the terms and conditions say tickets cant be transferred. 
Ms V received the tickets  in time but decided not to go to the event.
Ms V complained to Lloyds who looked  into the matter, but it didnt think  it could help. This 
was because it didnt  think it could pursue a chargeback because  it didnt  have a reasonable 
prospect of success in its view. It also thought  a Section 75 claim should be unsuccessful.  
So it didnt think it could  do any more  for Ms V.
Ms V didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly by declining Ms Vs 
request for a refund.  Ms V didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision  is not about the secondary ticket  selling  Website, 
which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser  of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the secondary 
ticket selling Website (which Ms V then bought). I can see from Ms Vs representations  to 
the Investigator after his assessment that Ms V is (understandably) focusing on the 
behaviours of the website. However  whatever issues there maybe  with the websites 
behaviours over time it doesnt  necessarily  follow  that Lloyds has treated Ms V unfairly. And 
the question of whether or not Lloyds has treated Ms V fairly is the only question  I can 
decide upon in this decision. This is an important distinction which I hope Ive made  
sufficiently clear.
Ms V accepts  she made  this transaction for these tickets and she hasnt disputed that she 
knew the amount  she was paying.  She also accepts that she was willing to purchase these 
tickets at that price. Only after the purchase, once she had concerns about  the exact nature 
of the tickets shed  purchased, and the website more generally did she speak to Lloyds. So 
having considered what Ms V has said (including  that she made this purchase and paid for 
the tickets) and the evidence of Lloyds,  Im satisfied the transaction  was properly authorised 
by Ms V and correctly applied to Ms Vs credit  card account with Lloyds. 
could Lloyds challenge the transaction through  a chargeback?  
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Ms V 
does here,  Lloyds (as the card issuer)  can attempt to go through a chargeback process.
Ref: DRN95274612Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful.  But I should  add that card providers and indeed  merchants may decide 
to refund the cardholder for a variety of reasons including  goodwill, commercial  pragmatism  
and other  reasons along with outcome of the chargeback being successful through the 
actual chargeback process. So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt necessarily mean 
that card issuers should refund  every transaction similar to this one.
I dont think Lloyds couldve  challenged the payment on the basis Ms V didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue  that Ive already set out.
Lloyds is required to consider whether there is a reasonable  prospect of success  when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (the Website)  would then receive  that 
chargeback request and may agree  to refund  the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then Lloyds  should consider this and then if it still feels  the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further  and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
Lloyds) who will then make  an independent  determination on the matter.  So Lloyds isnt 
solely responsible  for the decision whether to refund or not when  going  through the 
chargeback process.  And it can decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think  there  is 
a reasonable prospect of success.
When Ms V first spoke  to Lloyds it pointed out at that stage it couldnt raise a chargeback  as 
Ms V had ordered  the tickets  and at that point there  was nothing  persuasive to suggest that 
the tickets wouldnt  be supplied. So I think Lloyds treated Ms V fairly in that position  it had 
taken. Latterly it has said that Ms V got tickets to the event so there  is no persuasive 
evidence of any failure here by the website  concerned. 
So considering what it knew, all in all, I think Lloyds decision  that there wasnt  a reasonable 
prospect of success in going through the chargeback  process any further  is fair and 
reasonable in my opinion. 
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Ms Vs Lloyds credit card. Under  section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances,  she has an equal  right to claim against Lloyds as she does against 
the supplier (the Website) if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. The Act includes certain  financial limits. In summary section 56 has the effect  of 
making Lloyds responsible during  the antecedent negotiations leading up to Ms V entering 
into the agreement. In essence this means  Lloyds can be held responsible for the things that 
were done  or said during the sales process  before agreement was reached. And under 
section 56 the financial limits requirement doesnt  apply.
For a valid claim  under  Section 75 there must  be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement  in 
place. The Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [Websites  name] provides a service that allows  members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites  
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.
Ref: DRN95274613This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website  does 
provide a service.  And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website  says 
it:
charges  a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect,  there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Ms V, Lloyds and the 
Website, albeit  not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service.  The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such  as venue, date, time, 
and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, its 
responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund  if the seller  doesnt fulfil their 
obligations around supplying the tickets.
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must have  a cash price of more  than £100. Ive seen copies of the tickets 
purchased, which show  a face value (including fees) of £35.75  per ticket. And we know that 
Ms V paid just over £280 for the three tickets. Ive not seen a breakdown of the tickets, so it 
is unclear how much  went to the seller of the tickets and how much went to the website. But 
whether or not this dispute meets the financial limits required for Section 75 doesnt make a 
difference for the reasons I shall now explain. 
For a successful claim Ms V would need  to show  a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the Website.  Ms V argues that she didnt know it was a reselling website and that there  
was misrepresentations  in the website process she went through in 2017. This service  has 
built up a thorough understanding of the websites processes and what  consumers saw as 
they navigated through the sales process. This includes screenshots  of the process  from the 
time that Ms V was using  the website. And I note when Ms V has been sent some such  
evidence this service  has, she has chosen not to comment on that but rather  repeat her 
position of being misrepresented to. 
Clearly in any sales process things can be done  better.  But Lloyds can only be responsible  
here if there  is either  a breach of contract  or misrepresentation which  materially  impacted Ms 
Vs decision to purchase. Which is a different test than to that of whether or not Ms V feels 
the websites sales process was fair. Clearly there was no breach because  the tickets Ms V 
bought were supplied to her. It was her decision not to use the tickets  and Lloyds wasnt 
responsible for that. And having considered the website sales  process throughout from the 
time Ms V used it, Im not persuaded she was told anything that was untrue  which  led her to 
buy tickets shed not have bought otherwise. 
Ive considered the entire sales process  including that before Ms V makes the agreement, 
but it doesnt make a difference whether I consider  this under section 75 or indeed  56 
because a claim under the act can only be successful if there is breach or misrepresentation. 
And Im not satisfied  there  is one here.
Ms V points to online comment about the website,  legal  processes and a vast array  of other 
relevant argument  about the website.  And clearly much has changed since those times 
about ticket selling websites such as this. But all of that doesnt  change the fact that I can 
only consider whether  Lloyds has treated Ms V fairly  in its decision not to refund the cost of 
Ref: DRN95274614the tickets. And it is only liable if there  is breach or misrepresentation by the website and Im 
not persuaded there was.
Ms V says she decided  not to use the tickets she got as they said they werent  transferable  
and had someone elses name on them.  Ultimately  it was Ms Vs choice to not use these 
tickets. And although most tickets (including  these ones) state they are not transferable the 
website makes clear that it is a ticket reselling website. So Ms V was on notice she was 
buying a ticket through a ticket reselling website when she bought these tickets. And Ms V 
hasnt demonstrated  that she was or would have been refused entry  for use of these tickets. 
Furthermore it is clear that although  events often state that tickets are not transferable  it is 
common practice for event venues  to accept tickets  which have been transferred. Ticket 
touting and services such as the website in this case  (and others like it) demonstrate  this. 
I also note that Ms V argues that the original owner of the ticket  appeared to have it to sell 
before they went on general sale. However  its clear  that many  events have  batches  of ticket 
on sale before they go on general sale. And notwithstanding that the tickets bought were 
provided anyway.  So Im not persuaded Lloyds has done anything wrong here. 
Ms V points to a court  order  which she says supports her position.  But it is noteworthy  that 
the court order happened after she purchased  the tickets. Furthermore it is specifically  with 
regard to what the websites sales processes were and broader  considerations  of those. But 
that is a different test to whether Lloyds is responsible  for any breach of contract  or material 
misrepresentation made by the website  in Ms Vs case  as either of those has to be 
demonstrated in order to hold Lloyds liable.  And I suspect the juxtaposition of these lenses 
of how we consider  these  matters is the crux of Ms Vs evident and understandable 
disappointment in her complaint here being unsuccessful. 
Ms V asks whether she is being treated  differently by this service to other  complainants to 
this service who are in similar  situations. This service  considers  each  case  on its individual 
merits. However decisions are made  using  common approaches to ensure consistency and 
are published  to support openness  and fairness. Ms V can easily review other decisions on 
this matter (and the full spectrum of complaints that this service considers) on our website. 
Im not persuaded that there was breach or misrepresentation  here by the website in Ms Vs 
purchase process. The Website has said that its a ticket reselling website. It has provided a 
service (as Ive described) and I am not persuaded it has breached the contract  in providing 
that service which  it provides. Nor has it misrepresented that service to Ms M to my mind.  
In summary  this is a decision  about  what Lloyds is responsible for. I think that Ms V hasnt 
lost out here as I think Lloyds made  a fair decision in not taking the chargeback  issue  further.  
Im not persuaded that there has been  a breach or misrepresentation  here by the website 
which Lloyds is responsible for. And I think Lloyds correctly applied the cost of the tickets  to 
Ms Vs credit  card account. So I dont think I can fairly require  Lloyds to refund Ms V for the 
tickets. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms V to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  3 July 2021.
Ref: DRN95274615Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9527461