K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that MBNA Limited  mis-sold  payment protection insurance  (PPI) to him 
alongside a credit card in 2002. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I didnt think this complaint should be upheld. 
And I invited  the parties to comment on my provisional findings  and to provide me with any 
further information they wanted me to consider. That provisional decision is attached and it 
forms part of my final decision. 
Both parties  confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision. But neither has provided me with 
any further evidence  or comments. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
As neither party provided me with any further information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this 
mis-sale complaint. That means MBNA doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr W. But it has paid back  some of the cost of the PPI because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr W. 
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91510452Copy of my provisional  decision  
complaint
Mr W complains  that MBNA Limited  mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to him alongside  a 
credit card in 2002. 
background
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. He thought  that a chest infection Mr W had 
suffered from could have affected  his ability  to make a claim on the policy. MBNA disagreed  with that 
view. So the matter  has been  passed  to me to make a final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case .  
Provisionally, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold. And I think the refund MBNA has offered to Mr 
W for some  of the commission it received from his PPI premiums is a fair way to settle the complaint.  I 
realise this will be very disappointing for Mr W, particularly as our adjudicator  thought the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain  my provisional view below.  
Ref: DRN91510453It looks as though PPI was sold to Mr W over the telephone  shortly after he applied  for his credit card.  
Mr W told us he cant remember what happened when  he bought this cover. So to help me decide  
whats likely to have happened, Ive looked  at a call script that MBNA says it used to sell PPI at that 
time. And Ive also considered the paperwork thats available from the time. I havent been given a call 
recording. Thats not unusual given this policy was sold over 15 years ago. I wouldnt expect  either  
party to keep  records indefinitely. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr W would have known  the PPI was optional  and he 
didnt have to buy it if he didnt want  it. I accept its possible that the call script wasnt followed to the 
letter when Mr W spoke to Mr W on the telephone. But I think the general thrust of that document 
shows that PPI was optional. And so I think its likely  the person  selling cover to Mr W would have  
also made that clear  to him. 
I dont think this was an advised sale  thats because I havent seen anything to suggest  that this 
policy was tailored to Mr Ws personal  circumstances. But MBNA still had to give 
Mr W enough information about the cover so he could decide for himself  whether  it was a good  fit for 
his needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not misleading. 
In the absence  of a call recording, I accept  its possible that MBNA didnt tell Mr W everything it 
should have done about the cover.  So the question for me now is whether hed have acted  differently 
if MBNA had told him everything it should have done. To help me decide  what  hes likely to have 
done, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive also thought 
carefully about what Mr W told us about his personal  circumstances at the time.
I can see that if hed had to make a PPI claim,  Mr Ws credit card repayments would have  been 
covered for up to 12 months if he lost his job. And hed have  been covered  until his balance  was 
repaid in full if hed become  unwell. Mr W told us that hed have received  less than three months full 
pay from his employer if he was out of work. So it follows that I think  this cover  would have lasted for 
longer than the sick pay Mr W had in place. 
Mr W told us that he didnt  need the PPI cover because he had family members who would have been 
able to help out if he ran into financial difficulties.  And I dont  doubt for a moment  that it would  have 
been the intention of those  family members to help Mr W. But circumstances  can change  and theres 
no guarantee  that help would have been available  to Mr W as and when  he needed it. 
I turn now to look at whether Mr W would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about  
medical conditions. I can see that if hed become  unwell, Mr W wouldnt have been able to claim  if it 
was caused by a condition that he knew about at the start date of the PPI or if hed had to see a 
doctor about the condition in the 12 months before the claim.
Our adjudicator thought Mr W wouldnt  have been able to make a claim  for his chest infection. But I 
dont think Mr W was suffering from this chest infection at the same time as he bought PPI. I say this 
because in his questionnaire, Mr W said hed had a chest infection at some point. That doesnt 
suggest to me he had had that condition  at the time he bought  PPI. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr W had an underlying chest condition  that would cause him to suffer from recurrent 
infections.  
Overall, I dont think the fact Mr W had suffered from what appeared  to be a oneoff infection would  
have put him off buying a PPI policy. Of course, if I am wrong about the assumptions Ive made  about 
Mr Ws health, Id invite him to provide me with further information. I was very sorry to hear that Mr W 
had recently  suffered from a significant health  matter  fairly recently. What Im focusing on in this 
complaint is his health at the time when  he bought PPI in 2002.  Id be very grateful for anything more  
Mr W can tell us about his health back in 2002. 
I havent seen anything unusual  about Mr Ws employment circumstances that would have stopped 
him from making a successful  claim  if he needed to. Overall, although Ive thought carefully about 
what Mr W told us, I think PPI could  have  been helpful  for him if he was out of work. With that in mind, 
Ref: DRN91510454I provisionally  havent  upheld  this complaint  for the mis-sale, which  means  MBNA doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. 
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr W about that. Because MBNA didnt  tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
Provisionally, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold   so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. 
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back  to Mr W any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept or reject 
my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9151045