K821x#15Complaint
Mr S, represented by a third party, complains that Elevate Credit International Limited 
(trading as Sunny)  lent money to him that he couldn't afford  to repay.
Background
Based on the information provided, Mr S entered into eight  instalment  loans  with Sunny 
between July and September 2017.
Loan Date Repaid Term  (weeks) Amount
1 16/07/2017 18/07/2017 24 £200
2 18/07/2017 18/07/2017 24 £200
3 23/07/2017 30/07/2017 24 £400
4 27/07/2017 30/07/2017 24 £350
5 05/08/2017 19/08/2017 24 £200
6 08/08/2017 18/01/2018 24 £100
7 11/08/2017 19/08/2017 24 £50
8 17/09/2017 18/01/2018 24 £800
Mr S says that Sunny failed to identify that he had become dependent on payday  loans and 
had become stuck  in a cycle of debt.  He says that adequate affordability  checks weren't 
carried out and that had his borrowing history been assessed it would have been clear that 
lending to him wasn't in his interests. He says the loans  caused him anxiety and depression.
Sunny says that before the loans were  provided  it carried out creditworthiness checks, 
assessed Mr S' ability to afford the repayments, and considered how he was managing  his 
other debts.  It says that based on these checks it was considered responsible  to lend to 
Mr S.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint from loan five. He didn't think that there  was enough  
evidence to say that loans  one to four shouldn't have been provided.  But by the time loan 
five was provided he thought there  were  signs that Mr S was struggling to repay his loans.
He said that Mr S had borrowed  five loans in a month and he thought there was a significant 
risk that he wouldn't be able to sustainably  repay  this and subsequent loans. By loan eight, 
our adjudicator thought that Mr S' pattern of borrowing showed he had become  persistently 
reliant on short term loans.
Sunny didn't  accept our adjudicator's view. It said that Mr S' declared monthly income  was 
£1,300 and that his loan repayments were  for a small  percentage of this. It said that the early  
loans were repaid  within a few days of being  taken out and that loan five was repaid within  
two weeks. Sunny said that there  was an outstanding balance on Mr S' account.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and gave the following conclusion.
There wasn't enough evidence to say that loans one to four shouldn't  have been 
provided.
Ref: DRN98296882Given the number  of loans Mr S had taken out by loan five I thought it would have 
been reasonable for Sunny to have carried  out further checks  to ensure the loan was 
affordable. But, based  on the information, I didnt find that I had enough to say that 
this loan shouldn't have  been provided.
Loans six and seven were provided  within a few days  of loan five and before loan five 
had been repaid.  However, totalling the repayments due under these three loans, I 
still found that the loan appeared affordable. Further checks should  have  taken place 
but I didnt find that I had enough  to say that these would have shown the loans 
weren't sustainably affordable. 
Loan eight  was provided shortly  after loans five and seven were repaid and while 
loan six was still outstanding. This loan was for a much larger  amount than the 
previous loans (£800). By this time, I thought that a pattern  of borrowing had 
emerged which suggested Mr S was potentially  dependent  on short term borrowing. I 
thought this combined with the substantial increase in the amount Mr S was 
borrowing should have raised concerns that providing loan eight wasn't  sustainably  
affordable.
I upheld this complaint  in regard to loan eight. Both parties accepted  the outcome in my 
provisional decision.
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr S could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent the repayment amounts and the 
consumer's income  and expenditure.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans - not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation.
As I set out in my provisional  decision Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, 
evidence and information provided in this context and what  this all means for Mr S 
complaint. As no further information was provided  in response to my provisional decision,  my 
decision hasnt changed. That is that I do not think I have  enough  evidence  to say that loans 
one to seven shouldnt have been  provided. However I think  that Sunny should have realised 
that loan eight wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr S. 
Ref: DRN98296883My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan eight. I understand there is 
still an outstanding  balance on Mr S account  but it has not specified whether loan eight has 
been repaid. Therefore Elevate Credit International Limited (trading  as Sunny) should:
If loan eight has been repaid:
refund  any interest, fees or charges  paid on this loan along with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the payments,  from the date the payments to the date the complaint is 
settled. This refund  can then be used to offset any outstanding  balance with any 
excess being paid to Mr S.
If loan eight has not been repaid:
remove all interest,  fees and charges from the loan;
treat any repayments made by Mr S towards this loan as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled.
If there is still an outstanding balance due after the above actions have been taken, I would 
expect Elevate Credit  International  Limited to work with Mr S in regard to a potential 
affordable repayment  plan.
The overall pattern  of Mr S borrowing by the time of loan eight means that any information 
recorded about this loan is adverse, so this loan should be removed entirely from Mr S 
credit file once it has been fully repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires interest  to be deducted from this interest.  Elevate Credit  
International Limited should give Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax has been 
deducted, if he asks for one
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9829688