K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia)  mis-sold 
Mr and Mrs U payment  protection  insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs U disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Us comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
Looking at the documents from the time,  I think Co-op Bank made  Mr and Mrs U aware  
that the PPI was optional, but that they still chose  to take it.
I dont think Co-op  Bank  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs U as being  particularly 
suited to their individual needs.  This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted their 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mr and Mrs U to decide whether it was suitable.  
But, even if it had made a personal  recommendation, I think it would probably have been 
an appropriate one in their circumstances at the time. Not being  able to pay a mortgage 
can cause significant difficulties, and the PPI would have  paid out in addition  to any 
employer sickness and redundancy  benefits,  and possibly  for longer. It would  have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the 
time when they would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying  the mortgage.  This all would have put Mr and Mrs U in a more secure 
position, if theyd  eventually lost income  due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
And Ive not been told anything to suggest  they couldnt afford  the PPI when they took it 
out. So it would have been  potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well Co-op Bank explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy. But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr and Mrs U took the PPI.
Its possible Co-op Bank didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs U would have been  affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their 
situation changed.
Mr and Mrs U have sent us a copy of a letter  they received from Britannia, in 1997, telling 
them this protection has never been  more essential  the letter referred  to a recent 
Ref: DRN92416872reduction in government social security provision  for mortgage holders. I dont think  that 
such wording from Britannia amounts, in itself, to unfair pressure.  The need for PPI to cover 
non-mortgage lending was often  questionable for a wide range of people.  But for many 
people it was sensible to take mortgage PPI, given the possible consequences  of not being 
able to cover  payments  on their home. It was reasonable to point this out, whilst leaving the 
choice to the customer.
So I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold in the way Mr and Mrs U believe it was. But Co-op 
Bank has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs U because: 
Co-op Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs U about that. Because Co-op  Bank didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs U, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Co-op Bank has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc do not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs U.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs U any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9241687