K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about A J Bell Management Limited (A J Bell). Hes unhappy the telephone 
dealing charge was applied to the disinvestment  of his US holdings. 
background
Mr E held holdings  in two US companies.  A J Bell sent him a secure message through  their 
online platform on 4 September 2019 to let him know that, in order  for him to retain these 
holdings, he had to complete and return a form by 1 January 2019.
A J Bell sent three emails  to Mr E in October  2018 and a further two in November  2018  
notifying him of the deadline  in which  he had to provide the form. The emails,  along with the 
4 September 2019 secure message, explained  that if the form wasnt received then his US 
holdings would be sold at the beginning of 2019  and that the normal  dealing  charges/FX 
charges would apply.
A J Bell tried to call Mr E on 21 November but as he wasnt available,  they left him a 
voicemail message  to remind  him about the need for him to provide the form by no later than 
the end of the year. They also referred to the emails and secure message that theyd sent 
him.
A J Bell sent Mr E a further three  secure  messages on 6, 14, 31 December 2018. These 
gave Mr E the same warning and that his US holding would be sold if the form wasnt 
received in time. The secure messages said the following:
Furthermore, any US investments held within your account will be sold at the start 
of 2019 if we dont receive  a valid form, and our telephone dealing charge of £29.95  
would apply, in addition to our new tiered FX charge.
Mr E didnt provide  A J Bell with the completed  form and so his two US holdings were  
disinvested. A J Bell applied the telephone dealing charge of £29.95 to each holding. 
Mr E complained to A J Bell about  the charges. He said their terms didnt  list a charge for 
this type of transaction  forced selling   and that they didnt notify him of the charge by 
either email or phone.  He also didnt  think the £29.95 charge was a reasonable amount. But 
he said that in the emails  he received  it mentioned a normal  charge would be applied, so he 
thought the online dealing  charge of £9.95  would be reasonable in the circumstances. He 
requested A J Bell refund  him the difference of £40.
A J Bell didnt uphold  Mr Es complaint. They  said they provided him with sufficient notice of 
the requirement to return the form and as it wasnt received,  it was reasonable for them to 
disinvest his US holdings. They also explained that their terms outlined the telephone 
dealing charge and that the secure  messages they sent in December 2018  explained  it 
would be applied. They  also said it was reasonable to apply the £29.95  dealing  charge as 
they had to manually  disinvest  Mr Es US holdings.
The complaint was referred  to our service.  Our investigator looked in to the matter but she 
didnt think A J Bell had acted unfairly.  She thought A J Bell made reasonable efforts  to 
contact Mr E about what would happen to his US holdings if he didnt send them  the 
completed form.  And that they made the telephone dealing charge clear  to him in their 
secure messages.   
Ref: DRN99406972The investigator also explained that A J Bell had shown Mr E logged on to his online account 
after the emails  and secure messages  were  sent to him. And that, in line with the terms of 
the account, it was Mr Es responsibility  to ensure he checked  his emails and secure 
messages. She also added that as A J Bell had to manually disinvest the two holdings,  
unlike online transactions which require no manual intervention, she didnt  think it was 
unreasonable for them to apply the £29.95  telephone dealing charge  to each holding.
Mr E disagreed and so the matter has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr E is unhappy with the amount he was charged for the disinvestment  of his 
US holdings.  But I dont think A J Bell has acted unfairly by applying the telephone dealing 
charge. Ill explain  why.
The terms of the account say:
We will send  correspondence to You by Secure Message  or the most recent email  
address held on Our records. It is Your responsibility to ensure that You check  Your 
email and the Secure  Message area of the Website  regularly.
A J Bell has shown that it sent Mr E four secure  messages and five emails about the 
requirement for a completed form being  received by 1 January 2019 to prevent the 
disinvestment of US holdings. And I consider the terms  of the account clearly explain how 
A J Bell will communicate with their customers. So I think they made reasonable attempts, 
and acted in line with the account terms, when informing Mr E about this matter.
The last three secure messages sent to Mr E explained that, should the form not be 
received, the telephone dealing charge would apply. A J Bell has shown that Mr E logged on 
to his online account after the first two of these  secure messages  were sent to him. And I 
think its reasonable to expect, given Mr E agreed  to the above term when opening the 
account, that he ought to have checked  his secure  messages  when he logged on. Im 
therefore satisfed  Mr E was given  sufficient notice about what  charges would be applied  in 
the event his US holdings were disinvested. If, however,  upon  reading these secure  
messages Mr E had any concerns or queries then he couldv contacted A J Bell to have 
discussed this. I cant  see that this happened 
Mr E has however argued that a forced  selling charge  wasnt set out in the Charges and 
Rates applicable  to his account.  And so he doesnt think  A J Bell can apply the telephone 
dealing charge for the disinvestment  of his US holdings. Ive carefully consired this point  but, 
while I accept this particular event wasnt specifically listed  in the Charges  and Rates, I 
dont think A J Bell has acted unfairly by applying the telephone dealing charge in these  
circumstances.
A J Bell charge their customers for the buying  and selling of investments on a per deal basis. 
In this case, Mr Es US holdings had to be disinvested due to non-receipt  of the form. And so 
while I appreciate  Mr E didnt request for this to happen, I think  its reasonable for A J Bell to 
apply a charge  to each holding to reflect the sale of the investments that took place. 
Ref: DRN99406973I understand Mr E thinks it would  be fairer for the online dealing charge  to have been 
applied. But A J Bell has explained that, unlike online  transactions,  to disinvest Mr Es US 
holdings they had to place  the deals by telephone. Because of this, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for A J Bell to apply the telephone  dealing charge as that was the service they 
provided. And while I cant tell a business what they should charge  their customers  as 
thats their commercial decision  I think its fair for them to charge more when theyre 
manually taking action  opposed to an automatic online  process. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr E is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think A J Bell has acted unfairly by applying the telephone dealing charge to the 
disinvestment of his US holdings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9940697