K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold him a regular payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover  his credit card repayments.
background
Mr P applied for a credit card in 2002. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to cover his 
credit card repayments. The policy cost £0.78  per £100 of the balance  on Mr Ps credit card. 
A successful  claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 
months per claim if Mr P was unable to work due to accident or sickness or 10 months per 
claim if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ps complaint should  be upheld because  he thought Mr P 
wouldve understood he had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
suitable benefit.
Mr P disagrees. He says it wasnt made clear it was optional and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
BOS have given  us a copy  of the application  form Mr P completed when taking out his credit  
card. 
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
the section it gives  the cost of PPI and brief description of the cover  and then gives the 
option to select  PPI with a tick next to the words Please tick the box to enrol. I can see on 
Mr Ps application form a tick has been  placed in the box next to this. 
I think there is enough there for Mr P to understand he didnt need  to take PPI because  he 
couldve just left the section blank. So I think Mr P selected to take PPI with a tick because 
he wanted the cover. 
This was an advised  sale. What  this means  is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about PPI in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way so that Mr P could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the 
policy was suitable  to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  they shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr P for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN91271572He was eligible  for the policy  and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr P says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay and had 
savings he could  use to make his credit  card payments if he couldnt work  or lost his 
job. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and covered his credit  card 
payments for potentially  longer if he couldnt  work due to accident or sickness  or lost 
his job. So I think the policy  wouldve  provided  a useful benefit to Mr P in his 
circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time and 
if he decided he no longer wanted  the policy he couldve cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mr P information in a way which  was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy  out. I dont think BOS did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons  that the policy was suitable  and based  on what  Mr P has told us 
about his circumstances at the time,  I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if hed 
been given all the proper information on the policy.  
This means  Mr P isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing  by BOS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint  against Bank  of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9127157