K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds decision to settle a claim as a fault 
claim under her car insurance policy. 
background
In November 2018 Mrs K was involved  in an incident with another driver and she reported  it 
to her insurer, UKI. 
UKI investigated the claim and decided to settle the claim as a fault claim. 
In February 2019  Mrs K complained to UKI. But it said its decision was correct. It paid Mrs K 
£100 compensation for failing to call her back when promised in January 2019.
Mrs K asked us to look at things for her. Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably.  
Mrs K didnt agree. She said shes telling the truth and the other driver isnt. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  liability. But we can look at whether an 
insurer has properly investigated  the claim and reached its decision in a reasonable way  
and in line with the policy.
UKIs policy has a term which we find in most  if not all  motor  insurance policies. This 
term says that UKI can take over the defence and settlement of a claim. This means that UKI 
might make a decision Mrs K doesnt agree with, but the policy allows  UKI to do this anyway.  
We have no objection to this term in principle, provided an insurer can show its treated its 
customer fairly.
The circumstances of the incident have  been described differently by Miss K and the other 
driver. 
What seems to be agreed is that the other  driver  to the right  and Mrs K  to the left  
collided on a roundabout  as both were travelling  straight on.
The location  Mrs K gave for her approach to the roundabout on her accident report form is  
according to an online  map  a single lane. Mrs K said that the other  driver  overtook her car 
while proceeding onto the roundabout when she was correctly  travelling. Mrs K said she 
believes the other driver was at fault as she overtook her car in a single lane on the 
roundabout. 
The other driver gave  a different  location of where the incident happened.  She said that the 
incident happened on approach from the opposite direction. From the online  map, I can see 
that the lane the other driver mentioned - approaching  the roundabout  from the opposite  
direction - has two lanes.  
Ref: DRN98440182The other driver said that Mrs K was in the left hand  lane  which  is marked  as a left hand 
only lane  and that she (the other driver) was correctly travelling in the right hand lane to go 
straight on. But at the roundabout, the other  driver said that Mrs K also went straight on and 
this caused the collision.
In phone calls between  UKI and Mrs K, UKI didnt find Mrs Ks account consistent with her 
description on the report form. And there  was no CCTV  footage available to UKI and no 
independent witnesses. 
UKI reviewed the accident report accounts from both Mrs K and the other driver. And it 
considered the area of damage  to both cars. UKI decided  that the other drivers account was 
clearer and more plausible. And so it decided  that it wouldnt be able to defend Mrs Ks claim 
if the matter went as far as court. UKI made  a decision  to settle  the claim as a fault claim 
against Mrs K. 
I understand Mrs K is upset with UKIs decision.  But UKI is entitled to decide that its better 
to settle a claim based on its experience  and where  it considers its chances  of successfully 
defending a claim are low  rather than risk significant costs in taking  the matter  to court.  
UKI reviewed its decision for a second time when Mrs K complained.  I think  this was a fair 
and reasonable approach to take.  But it came to the same outcome. 
This doesnt mean that UKI  or I  believe one party  over the other.  But from what Ive 
seen, I think UKI properly investigated the claim. And it reached its decision in a reasonable 
way and in line with the policy. So I dont  think UKI needs to do any more.
As UKI has settled the claim on a without  prejudice  basis, Mrs K can consider taking legal 
action against  the other  driver. She will need  to seek independent  legal advice about that. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9844018