K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wasnt  of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss W under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn  that 
she electronically signed in June 2018.  The car was about seven years old and had been  
driven for 45,407 miles. Miss W complained  to Moneybarn  about issues with the car within  a 
few days of it being supplied to her and she stopped making  payments to it. She paid £49 for 
the car to be inspected  in July 2018 and a number of faults  with it were identified.  
Moneybarn said that it would arrange for the car to be inspected by an independent expert.  
But the inspection  didnt take place  until November 2018 and by then Miss W had used the 
car to drive  3,527  miles.  So Moneybarn arranged  for the faults  to be repaired.  Miss W said 
that she wanted to reject  the car so she complained to Moneybarn. She wasnt satisfied  with 
its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that Miss W 
should be allowed  to reject the car and that Moneybarn should:  arrange an affordable  
repayment plan to make the payments that had been missed between July and October  
2018 (and once  those  payments were  made  to remove  any record  of the finance agreement  
from her credit file); refund the deposit (if one was paid) with interest; and refund the 
inspection fee of £49 with interest.
Moneybarn has asked  for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says,  in 
summary, that Miss W continued to use the car which  contradicts  her wish to reject  it and 
continued use of the car is not the appropriate action following a rejection request. It says 
that it agreed that the car could be returned  in September 2018 and chased  Miss W for her 
to hand it back.  It also says that when the car was repaired Miss W refused to collect  it and 
hasnt made  any payments for the car.
It also says that Miss W wouldnt have been able to drive the car for 3,000 miles if it was 
unfit for purpose  without causing  significant  damage to it and the car passed an MOT  test 
three days prior to her purchase, with no advisories noted,  which would suggest that the 
brakes didnt render it of unsatisfactory  quality  at the time of purchase.  It says that its a 
second hand car and theres  bound  to be some wear on the components and its concerned 
about the legitimacy of the report from the garage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory  
quality. Whether or not it was will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age, and 
mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Miss W 
was about seven years old, had been  driven for more than 45,000  miles and had a price  of 
£4,475. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability which means  that the components  within 
the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that 
time is will depend on a number of factors. 
Ref: DRN97425012The car had passed an MOT test in June 2018 and was supplied  to Miss W at the beginning 
of July 2018. She complained to Moneybarn about  faults with it less than two weeks  later.  
Miss W paid for a garage to inspect the car in late July 2018. It identified, amongst other 
things, that the brakes were excessively worn  and there was an issue  with the transmission. 
That garage is long established and is an independent garage specialising in the make  of 
car that was supplied  to Miss W. Moneybarn has questioned the legitimacy of the report  but 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the report isnt valid.  
Moneybarn has provided recordings of phone calls with Miss W from September and 
October 2018. It was confirmed in two calls that it had accepted  that she could  reject  the car 
and she then agreed for the car to be inspected by an independent  expert. Moneybarn  
arranged such an inspection in November 2018.  The inspection report  concluded:
Our opinion based  upon the visible evidence is we can confirm that the rear brake  
friction components have  completely expired. This was reportedly brought  to the 
hirer's attention at 46'192 miles [in July 2018]. At which point  the hirer appears  to 
have ignored this advise and has continued  to operate the vehicle in this state.  
Although at this stage  there appears to have been  no consequential damage  due to 
continued use in a compromised state,  the brake friction components do require 
complete replacement. On the balance of probability, the conditions  would have been 
severely worn at the point of finance  inception and therefore considered the 
responsibility of the selling  agent.
So the independent expert concluded  that it was more likely than not that the brakes 
wouldve been severely worn when the car was supplied to Miss W and that it was the 
responsibility of the selling  agent.  And that was consistent with the findings of the garage 
that had inspected the car in July 2018. So I consider it to be more  likely than not that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss W. And shed asked  to reject the 
car within 30 days of it being  supplied to her.
Miss W continued  to use the car after she became aware of the issues with it and she used it 
to drive about 3,500 miles between July and October 2018. She shouldnt  have done so 
because the car couldve  been  unsafe and she couldve done  further  damage  to it. But the 
independent report  says that she hasnt  caused any consequential damage to the car. And I 
consider it to be more  likely than not that she continued to use the car because Moneybarn  
hadnt accepted that she could reject it, the car wasnt inspected until October  2018  and she 
needed to use the car for work. So Im not persuaded that her use of the car means that she 
cant reject  it.
The dealer  repaired  the car after it had been  inspected  but Miss W didnt want  the car to 
be repaired  and she wasnt contacted before the repair  took place. She hasnt collected the 
car and she stopped making the required payments  soon after she had issues with the car. 
She shouldnt have done that  and I consider  it to be fair and reasonable that she should  
pay for the use that she had from the car between July and October  2018.  
Miss W says that the issues with the car have caused her other  losses  because shes not 
been able to work as much as she wanted  to. But she wasnt  paying  for the car so she 
couldve used the money that she shouldve paid for it to pay for alternative transport. And 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the car and its service history 
were misrepresented  to Miss W.
Ref: DRN97425013I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for Moneybarn to allow 
Miss W to reject  the car. So I find that it should cancel the conditional sale agreement and try 
to arrange with Miss W an affordable repayment arrangement  for the four monthly payments 
of £163.03 that she shouldve made between July and October 2018. Once Miss W has paid 
that amount  to Moneybarn I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it remove any 
adverse information  about the agreement that its recorded on Miss Ws credit file. The 
conditional sale agreement shows  that Miss W didnt pay a deposit for the car. 
Miss W says that she paid £49 for the inspection in July 2018. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Moneybarn to reimburse  that amount to her (with interest).
. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint. And I order  Moneybarn 
No. 1 Limited to:
1. End the conditional sale agreement  at no cost to Miss W.
2. Try to arrange an affordable repayment  plan with Miss W for the four monthly  
payments of £163.03 for her use of the car between July and October 2018.
3. When shes made those payments, remove any adverse information about 
the agreement  that its recorded on her credit file.
4. Pay £49 to reimburse her for the cost of the independent report.
5. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Moneybarn to deduct tax from the interest  payment  
referred to at 5 above. Moneybarn must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  tax its 
deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9742501