K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have  complained about  their let property insurer Markerstudy  Insurance
Company Limited  declining their claim made for damage caused to the property.
background
Mr M and Mrs M own a property which was managed by an agent. The agents visited the 
property in February 2016 and found  it was mostly  in good  order with only some signs of 
minor wear and tear. In March 2016  Mr M and Mrs M began eviction proceedings for non-
payment of rent. These  concluded in March 2017 when Mr M and Mrs M regained  
possession after court bailiffs removed people living in the house. Damage was found  in 
almost every  room.
Mr M and Mrs M wanted to get the property back on the market  so they agreed a price  with 
the managing  agent to do minimal remedial work. They paid the agent £4,490 to carry out 
work, and also relinquished  the £700  tenants  deposit. Further invoices from the agent were  
produced totalling £118  that Mr M and Mrs M have yet to pay. They  also paid their own 
builder for work totalling £1,104. They said this equated to the minimum necessary  to get 
the property back  on the market.
Markerstudy declined  the claim. It said its loss adjuster  hadnt  seen sign of malicious 
damage  the state of the property was due to long-term neglect and deterioration. It said 
that theft by tenants was excluded, so any items reported as stolen, such as the washing 
machine and front gate, wouldnt be covered either.
When Mr M and Mrs M complained to this service our investigator initially  felt Markerstudys 
decline was fair and reasonable. However, only its loss adjusters report was available  at 
the time as evidence  of what  damage  had occurred. In response Mr M provided further 
details.
Upon review our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He said the damage at 
the property was unlikely to have been caused  over a long period of time.  He said as the 
policy covered damage he didnt  need  to be specific as to the most likely nature or cause  of 
it. He felt Markerstudy should  reconsider  the claim regarding damage.  But he still thought  
that as stolen items werent covered its decision not to pay for these had been fair and 
reasonable.
Mr M and Mrs M accepted the investigators  findings. Markerstudy  did not. Markerstudy was 
unclear as to which  damage causing  event we were  saying applied.  It said if the 
investigator was saying this should be seen as accidental damage, it didnt agree it was. It 
said the damage wasnt accidental in nature. It also said if it was seen to be covered there 
would be an individual excess applicable  against each piece of damage as it was unlikely 
everything occurred  at the same time.
The complaint was passed  to me and I also felt it should be upheld.  But I issued a 
provisional decision to better explain why this was, and to tell the parties what  I felt 
Markerstudy should pay to settle  the matter   a total of £5,512,  plus interest.  I didnt think 
any compensation should be paid.
Mr M and Mrs M said they acceptd  my findings.  Markerstudy said it would  pay £5,512.
Ref: DRN90217602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As both parties accepted what I said Ive no need  to change my provisional findings.  Whilst 
I note that Markerstudy  hasnt agreed  to pay interest I havent seen any comment from it 
which persuades  me interest shouldnt be added. My findings  below are taken from my 
provisional decision and are now the findings of this my final decision.  
Having considered the photos of the damage  and the circumstances surrounding that I 
think its fair to say the damage found  at the property following the eviction had resulted 
from more than just wear and tear. Even the substantial wear and tear that is often 
associated with careless tenants.  And in saying  that I think the context of the damage  is 
important; despite  several  years  of tenancy  up to February 2016, at the point of inspection  
at that time,  there was no sign of significant wear and tear or damage having  resulted from 
careless or disrespectful  use of the property. After this eviction proceedings began and the 
significant damage at the property was found following the forceful  removal of the people 
that had been living there.
So Im prepared to say that the damage  present was likely the result of such  wilful neglect 
that it can reasonably be viewed as a malicious  act. But Mr M and Mrs Ms policy  doesnt  
offer cover against malicious acts or damage. It does offer cover  for damage caused  by 
malicious persons.  I think given what Ive said above  about  the damage its fair to extend 
that to conclude those  carrying  out that damage  were malicious persons.
I dont see that any of the exclusions that relate to this area of cover reasonably apply to 
remove Markerstudys liability. On this note, and in the event  that Markerstudy  does feel 
that the cover available here is excluded for some reason, I think  the related exclusions 
arent particularly clear.
The exclusions contain a reference to damage by malicious persons not being covered 
unless those persons  are affiliated to a political group. But this reference is attached to 
exclusions regarding theft and unoccupancy of the property.  So as Im not currently  talking 
about theft and the property wasnt unoccupied,  I dont see that the extension to these 
exclusions which refers to politically unaffiliated  malicious persons applies in this instance. 
And, if Markerstudy thinks otherwise, my view is that the policy in that respect is unclear. In 
that case  I wouldnt find it fair for Markerstudy to rely on this exclusion to defeat  Mr M and 
Mrs Ms claim for damage.
I think Markerstudys decision not to pay in respect of stolen items was fair and reasonable. 
Theft by tenants  is excluded. Mr M and Mrs M have  argued that the legal tenancy  ended in 
September 2016. Even if I accept  that, there is no way to know  when (between February 
2016 and March 2017) items  were  stolen from the property.  But in any event the theft cover  
doesnt apply  where theft without forcible and violent entry  to or exit from the property  
occurs and there is no sign of that here. I know Mr M and Mrs M have surmised that 
intimidation was likely used against the tenant by other persons who then moved in, did 
damage and stole  items. But that is no more  than conjecture. Given  the policy  wording and 
the relevant circumstances  Im not reasonably satisfied that a theft, that Markerstudy is 
fairly liable for under the terms  of the policy, occurred.
Ref: DRN90217603Therefore, I think Markerstudy  not paying  the claim in part was fair and reasonable. But not 
so far as the damage elements are concerned. Regarding damage I think  Markerstudy 
should reimburse Mr M and Mrs M for the costs  they had in reinstating the property. To do 
that theyve paid an amount to the managing agent  for work, paid their builder for other 
work and have some invoices outstanding  with the managing agent.
They paid a reduced sum, which  included the relinquished tenants deposit of £700,  to the 
managing agent  to get the property habitable again.  But the original scope the reduced  sum 
was based on included supply and fit new carpets/vinyl  (£1,800). Theres  no breakdown 
for this sum but Im mindful that one of the carpets in the house was stolen,  the remaining 
floor coverings in the property were replaced as they were damaged beyond repair.
As Im only looking at damaged items Im going to reduce my award in respect of the 
replacement stolen carpet. As the carpeting  cost isnt broken down by room Im going to set 
an estimated value for the replacement stolen carpet at £200. Either  party  can provide 
arguments that it was less or more if they wish.
There was a gate on the original scope  too. A gate at the property was reported as stolen. 
Im satisfied though  that the gate was removed from the list of work  completed by the 
managing agent.  So I dont need to make a reduction for this in my award.
Regarding the excess, in many cases a policy will require an excess  to be paid against  
every instance of damage. Sometimes though, when extensive  damage is caused 
throughout a property  during one particular period of time,  this service will say that such  a 
strict application of terms is unfair. In this case Im also mindful of the policy wording in 
respect of excesses which says:
We will not coverThe Excess (as specified in the Schedule against each of the 'Covers
1 to 11 above being the first part of each and every loss to be borne by You at each 
separate Premises 
In the policy, cover for damage  caused  by malicious  persons is number 3. And Mr M and 
Mrs M made  only one claim for this regarding  the damage that had occurred at the one 
property. So, applying a reasonable interpretation of the policy wording, theyve only had 
one loss. That loss might include multiple instances of damage  but the policy doesnt allow  
for an excess to be taken in respect of every instance of damage.  At this point Im only 
going to reduce my award in respect  of the application of one policy excess  £250.
Im also mindful that in February 2016  the managing agent noted  that wear and tear repairs 
to the value of £450 were required. So as this damage isnt covered by the policy  and it pre-
existed the time of the damage in question  (March 2016 onwards), Im going to include a 
reduction for this in my award.
So for the work that Mr M and Mrs M had the managing agent carry out, that cost £5,190 
(£4,490 paid by them, plus the £700 deposit). From  that Im going to deduct the following:
£200 for replacement carpet/vinyl.
£250 for the policy excess.
£450 for previously existing wear  and tear issues.
That leaves me with finding that Markerstudy must reasonably pay Mr M and Mrs M £4,290 
in reasonable  settlement for their outlay to the managing agent. To this sum Im going to 
Ref: DRN90217604require Markersturdy to apply interest*. As payments  were made at different times and Ive 
deducted sums from the total paid I think its reasonable to say this should be applied from 
30 May 2017 until settlement is made  (by which point the majority but not all of the charges 
had been paid).
I also intend to require  Markerstudy to pay the other invoices presented. These  total 
£1,104. But Markerstudy hasnt seen these  before  and so it should let me know in response 
to my provisional decision if it has any objection  to paying these and Ill consider what it 
says. If I still think that the invoices  should  be paid  in total or in part  Ill likely require that 
it adds interest* to each  of the invoiced  sums from the date they were  paid and until it 
makes settlement.
Further, Mr M and Mrs M havent yet paid invoices the managing  agents  submitted to them 
totalling £118. Therefore, Ill likely  require  Markerstudy pay them  this sum to allow the 
invoices to be paid. But again it can have the chance to consider them and Ill consider any 
objection it may have. I wont  make  it pay interest in this case  as Mr M and Mrs M have not 
been out of pocket for these costs.
I havent been provided any evidence of estimates for work  required  to bring  the property 
back up to the standard it was before  as opposed to making it lettable. Therefore, I dont  
intend to make any award in respect of payment  for additional work.
Im not minded  to require  Markerstudy to pay any further compensation here. I think  some 
frustration was likely caused  by its decline but, in part at least,  that act was fair and 
reasonable. I also note that repairs, albeit restricted ones, were done  quite quickly so, in 
many ways, I think the reinstatement went ahead with little distress or inconvenience being  
caused by Markerstudys  decline.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint in part. I require Markerstudy Insurance  Company Limited  to pay 
Mr M and Mrs M:
£4,290 as reimbursement of costs, to date, theyve paid the managing agent, plus 
interest* on this sum from 30 May 2017  until settlement  is made.
£1,104 as reimbursement of invoices paid to their contractor, plus interest* on the 
individual amounts that make up this sum, from the date each was paid and until 
settlement is made.
£118 in settlement of the outstanding invoices submitted by the managing agent.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Markerstudy  
Insurance Company  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest 
due to Mr M and Mrs M, it should tell them how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr M and Mrs M a certificate showing 
this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9021760