K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited.
background
In September  2017 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. At the point of supply  the car was approximately  3 years old and 
had covered 7,200 miles.
In December 2017 Mr D reported a fault with the gearbox. The car was returned to the 
supplying dealer who said it would investigate. 
The dealership arranged for a third party garage to carry out repairs. Work was carried out in 
February 2018 which included replacing the clutch plates. Following this it was discovered 
that the ECU  map required correction. Several months passed with Mr D being unable to get 
an update from the dealer. 
In July 2018 Mr D was advised  that the gearbox was being  replaced. He was also told that 
the transmission  control  module was showing a fault code.
Mr D continued to chase  the dealer for an update  but was told they hadnt heard  back  from 
the repairing  garage. In August 2018 the repairing garage contacted Mr D and told him the 
car was ready to be collected.
Mr D wasnt happy about collecting  the car. He said hed long since lost faith in the supplying 
dealers ability to repair the car and he was annoyed at having being  without the car for 
several months whilst  different repairs were attempted. Mr D said he didnt  think the car was 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply  and told BMWFS he wanted to reject  it.
In its final response,  BMWFS said Mr D had accepted repairs and that the subsequent  
issues with the ECU  map were not as a result of a point of supply fault. Mr D wasnt  happy 
with the response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said the dealer  had been  given  the opportunity to 
repair the car but the repair had been  unsuccessful. He thought  Mr D should be allowed to 
reject the car.
BMWFS didnt agree so Ive been  asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied  
term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality  if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
due to an inherent defect  rather  than wear and tear.
Ref: DRN97477572Mr D reported the fault within 6 months of the point of supply. Under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015,  where  a fault arises within the first 6 months theres  a presumption that the fault 
was present or developing  at the point of supply and its generally up to the business to put 
things right. In such circumstances the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the 
fault. If the fault isnt successfully repaired the consumer is entitled to reject the car.
In this case the dealership was given the opportunity to repair  the fault in December 2017. 
The repair wasnt successful and Mr D was without the car for several months whilst further 
repairs were attempted. I dont agree with the comments made by BMWFS that Mr D 
accepted the repairs.  The evidence suggests that Mr D wasnt  kept properly informed as to 
what the repairing  garage were doing. I cant see that Mr D agreed  to accept further repairs.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the first attempt to repair the car wasnt successful 
and that Mr D should be allowed to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited 
should:
Allow Mr D to reject  the car
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr D.
Refund Mr Ds deposit in full together with 8% simple interest per year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement
Refund Mr D all monthly repayments hes made since December 2017 (because hes 
been without use of the car since this date)
Refund the full amount of road tax paid for by Mr D since the point of supply
Refund the full amount of insurance paid for by Mr D since the point of supply
Refund the full amount of the tracker paid for by Mr D since the point of supply
Remove any reference to the agreement from Mr Ds credit file
Pay compensation of £400 to Mr D for impaired  use (£200) and for distress and 
inconvenience (£200)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9747757