K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to reject  a claim he made  
under his car insurance policy.  Hes also unhappy with how long Ageas took to reach its 
decision.
background
Mr F bought  a car insurance policy with Ageas  on 13 July 2018. In September 2018  Mr F 
made a claim for damage to his car following an incident while driving  abroad.  He said the 
incident happened on 17 July 2018. Mr F said he arranged for his car to be recovered to 
another country and paid to have  his car repaired  at a dealership  garage there.
When Mr F reported  the incident, he told Ageas  he had driven  to a country that his car 
wasnt insured under.  It was in this country  that Mr F said he had his car repaired. But he 
said the accident happened in a country  which is covered under his policy with Ageas. Mr F 
said the other vehicle  failed  to stop but had driven into his car at speed. Mr F didnt have any 
details for the other vehicle. Mr F said he didnt report the incident to the police. 
Ageas instructed an investigator to interview Mr F and relatives that Mr F said were travelling 
with him (and in convoy)  when  the incident  happened. 
Ageas investigated  and rejected Mr Fs claim. It said his and his relatives  accounts  were 
inconsistent.  
Ageas engineer said Mr Fs car was a write  off and shouldnt be returned to the road. 
Mr F asked  us to look at his complaint. Our adjudicator thought Ageas had properly 
investigated the claim and reached  its decision reasonably. He didnt think Ageas had 
caused undue delay while investigating.
Mr F didnt  agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
The accounts given  by Mr F, his wife and brother-in-law were  inconsistent as to whether the 
incident happened outbound for the trip or on return,  the time of day, the date and the traffic 
and weather conditions. 
Mr F said that his brother-in-laws account  isnt correct because  he was upset by other  
personal issues when  he spoke to the investigator. 
However, the timing  of Mr Fs travel and his supporting documents flagged  further  
inconsistencies. They showed Mr F entered a country that wasnt covered under his policy 
on 16 July 2018.  Mr F told Ageas in his initial call that the incident happened at 1.30am on 
17 July 2018 in a country  covered under  Mr Fs policy. But on sight  of his travel documents,  
Ageas said this couldnt have been  possible geographically.
Ref: DRN90789792In November 2018 Mr F said the incident  happened on 16 July 2018 in the afternoon   in a 
country Ageas covered  under the policy. Mr F said he paid for recovery.  But he wasnt able 
to provide proof of payment for the truck which recovered his car.
It took time for Ageas  to investigate the circumstances of Mr Fs claim.  I dont  think it caused 
unnecessary delay during its investigation.  
I think Ageas  reached its decision to reject Mr Fs claim reasonably  based on the 
information it received.  There was insufficient  evidence to show  Ageas when or where the 
incident took place. It was for Mr F to provide  reasonable proof of his claim. I dont think  he 
did this. So I dont think Ageas has been  unfair  to him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9078979