K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the overdraft charges Lloyds Bank PLC applied to his account from 3 
November 2017.  He says hes experienced financial difficulty. The charges have been 
applied unfairly  and have worsened his financial position. He wants them  refunded and 
compensation.
background
Lloyds explained  in its final response that from 2 November 2017 new terms and conditions  
applied to Mr S account which said he would be charged a daily overdraft fee of 1p for every 
£7 borrowed  over any agreed  fee free amount. Its fees have been reviewed and they were  
correctly applied to the account. It cannot  refund any of the planned overdraft fees as Mr S 
had agreed to them when he set up the overdraft facility which hed later used. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said the overdraft  fees and 
charges from 3 November  2017  appeared to have been applied  in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss account. He borrowed  money by using the overdraft facility and its only 
fair that he should  have to pay it and the charges back. Lloyds has addressed Mr S change 
of circumstances  and acknowledged he was experiencing financial difficulty. Its offered him 
support. As Lloyds  hasnt done  anything  wrong  he cant  ask it to refund any charges.
Mr S doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All the charges from 3 November  2017  for using the overdraft facility  were applied in line 
with the agreed  terms and conditions of the account. And it wasnt until later that Mr S told 
Lloyds he was experiencing financial difficulty.  Since  then it has attempted  to assist  him.
Overall I cant  conclude  the charges were applied unfairly as Mr S suggests. 
I sympathise with the situation Mr S finds  himself  in as a result  of the financial difficulties hes 
experiencing. Even so I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require Lloyds to refund any 
charges its applied to his account or pay him compensation as hed like. And I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
I would remind Lloyds  of its obligation  to continue  to treat Mr S positively and sympathetically 
while he remains in financial difficulties.
Mr S is also now unhappy  that Lloyds has recently  closed his account and asked for 
repayment of the outstanding balance. But thats a new matter and I cannot  deal with it in 
this complaint. Mr S will need  to raise it with Lloyds in the first instance.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN95473062Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN9547306