K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited unfairly  declined  
their claim for their car keys after they were stolen from their home.
background
Mr and Mrs T made a claim on their home insurance policy  following a theft at their home. 
However, Liverpool Victoria declined their car keys based on the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs T hold contents cover (which protects  household goods in their home)   and 
also personal possessions cover (which protects  items outside of their home,  that are 
designed to be worn or carried). The policy terms state that contents and personal 
possessions are not: motor vehicles  and all their accessories
Mr and Mrs T say Liverpool Victoria initially declined their car keys because it considered the 
items to be car accessories, which they say they challenged. In response to their complaint 
London Victoria explained that car keys arent a household good and therefore the items 
didnt fit the policy definition of contents  so it said its irrelevant whether they are 
considered to be accessories or not. 
London Victoria also highlighted that the policy  terms specifically cover loss of keys, but the 
policy wording explains that this is for the cost of replacing locks  to the external doors of the 
home, rather than a car.
Mr and Mrs T were  unhappy with London Victorias  response, so they referred their 
complaint to our service. They made  the following points:
The product  information documents define  contents as your  belongings in your 
home, and there is no mention of car keys in the what is not insured section.
They never claimed their car keys to be household goods, but the items are personal 
property that are kept in the home and designed to be carried,  so fall within the policy  
definition for personal possessions  and they are not car accessories.
Although insurance companies have never paid out for car keys, thats irrelevant. If 
car keys arent covered  that should  be specified  they are high value items  and 
vulnerable to theft. Being unspecified  and falling within the definition of personal  
possessions means they must be covered. 
Under the heading of 'keys'  where London Victoria  has the opportunity  to define car 
keys and any cover, it fails to do so.
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but she didnt think  it 
should be upheld.  She thought that the intention of the policy was to exclude anything thats 
used with a vehicle, and car keys should be considered  a vehicle part. She also didnt think 
that the exclusion of car keys from a contents policy was either unusual or onerous, so 
concluded that London Victoria didnt  need to specifically highlight  this policy term.
Ref: DRN98860502Because Mr and Mrs T disagreed, their complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. They have  made the additional points:
They have done an extensive online search  they say recognised  dictionaries  dont  
define keys as accessories, and nor do motoring  retailers categorise keys as a car 
accessory.
They agree  that car keys are an essential element of a car and are therefore not 
accessories, but are a car part. However, they question why car parts  arent 
specified, mentioned,  or excluded in the policy.
The policy terms define  contents  as items that are designed to be carried, or kept or 
stored in the home. As such,  Mr and Mrs T consider  car keys to be contents items; 
and say the onus was on London  Victoria to define, specify, and exclude  them.  
London Victoria is interpreting its sloppy and clumsy wording to suit its outcome, 
which Mr and Mrs T consider unreasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In respect of London  Victorias  policy  terms,  I agree  the wording could be clearer. As pointed 
out by Mr and Mrs T, modern car keys are often  high value  items  and targeted  by burglars; 
and in my view, consumer  confusion could  easily be avoided by car keys being specifically 
mentioned within the policy terms. But having said that, Im satisfied that car keys are not 
covered by Mr and Mrs Ts policy. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs T dont  consider  car keys to be vehicle accessories. In my 
view, an accessory is something that is optional or extra; whereas the items in question are 
integral to the functioning of the car. But by the same rationale, Im persuaded car keys are 
vehicle parts. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T also consider car keys to be vehicle parts.  But 
whilst they take the view that vehicle parts and/or  car keys should  be specifically mentioned 
in the policy  terms,  and I agree this would be helpful   Im satisfied that in the context  of the 
policy, its reasonable to interpret  the term motor vehicles to include all vehicle parts, 
regardless of whether a part is attached to, or in a vehicle, at the time of the loss. 
So in conclusion, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ts car keys arent covered under their home 
insurance policy because  motor vehicles (which Im persuaded  includes vehicle parts) are 
excluded under their contents and personal possessions  coverage. For this reason, Ive 
decided London  Victoria has fairly  declined their stolen car keys.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs T. But for the reasons  given above,  I dont  uphold  their 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN98860503Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9886050