K821x#15complaint
Mr B complained about Society of Lloyds (SOL)  handling of his car insurance policy  following an 
accident.
Reference to SOL includes their agents.
background
In May 2015, Mr B and his wife were involved in an accident. The car was a total loss and 
Mr B and his wife suffered injuries. The other driver later accepted being at fault for the 
accident. Mr B claimed against the other driver for uninsured  losses under his motor  legal 
expenses insurance  (MLEI),  in particular for injuries he and his wife suffered.
Mr B also contacted SOL to claim for the total loss of his car under his policy. But he wasnt 
happy with the valuation  put on the car by SOL as he felt it was worth  more. Mr B said that 
as the accident was the other drivers  fault, it was their responsibility to put him back  into the 
position he would have been had the accident  not happened. He therefore  decided to 
pursue the other driver through his solicitor under his MLEI.  But the solicitor refused to do 
that saying he could only claim for uninsured  losses under his MLEI  and that the total loss of 
his car was an insured loss covered by his policy  with SOL.
Over the next couple of years Mr B was in contact with SOL and his solicitor  trying to 
understand what his position was. He complained about both the solicitor  and SOL.  SOL 
didnt uphold  his complaint saying  they didnt do anything wrong.
As Mr B wasnt happy with SOLs decision, he brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into the complaint and felt that SOL hadnt acted fairly. She felt SOL 
could have done more to explain to Mr B his position  and how the claims process  worked. 
She recommended that SOL should pay Mr B £300  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience he experienced.
As SOL didnt agree  with our investigator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr B had a fully comprehensive policy  with SOL that said they would pay him the pre-
accident market  value of his car in the event his car was a total loss. Shortly after the 
accident, Mr B contacted  SOL to claim on his policy. But he felt the valuation  put on the car 
by SOL wasnt enough to enable him to buy a similar car to replace his.
On 13 July 2015, SOL wrote to Mr B and said:
Your vehicle was insured  for £1000.00 and that is the valuation  we also placed, so 
unfortunately, we will not be able to be of any further financial assistance.
On 15 October 2015, Mr B wrote to SOL and said:
Ref: DRN92448232As you feel unable to pursue a claim against  the third party  on my behalf  to 
compensate us for the replacement  of the total loss of our car. I have to take this up 
with the third party myself.  This may fail so it may be that I will still have to claim 
under my policy. 
Mr Bs dealings  after October 2017  were predominately with the solicitor under his MLEI. He 
was trying to get them to claim  for the value of his car from the other driver, but they referred  
him back to SOL.  On 31 October 2017,  Mr B wrote to SOL and said:
I refer you to my letter  of 15/10/2015  where I advised you that I would need  to 
pursue the third party myself to recover  the replacement cost of our car as your 
valuation would not put us back in the position we were in before the accident. This is 
what I believe is the third partys obligation  and the true meaning of compensation.  
There was no comment or objection to this.
I remain confused  by the lack of a clear  explanation by [the solicitor], and 
contradictory opinions  as to what I can and cannot  do We are the innocent  victims  
of someone elses  negligence.  All we seek is to be returned  to the position we were  
in before this accident. Where this is not possible then we should be compensated 
adequately for our losses and the ongoing  consequences caused by the accident.  
Can you please advise  us of the way forward to achieve this aim?
Mr B did claim  under  his policy for the total loss of his car, but he didnt follow it through  
because he didnt accept  the valuation given by SOL. Its clear to me, and should  have been 
to SOL,  that Mr B wasnt familiar with how the claims process  worked; the difference 
between insured and uninsured losses; the limitations of his MLEI; and the remit of the 
solicitor tasked with recovering his uninsured losses. I think SOL should have explained 
everything to Mr B clearly  and early on to enable  him to make an informed decision as to 
how to proceed.
SOL did tell Mr B that they were happy  to answer  any queries he had about  any aspect of 
his claim.  But after SOL said that Mr B wrote his letter to them  dated  15 October 2015, which 
clearly demonstrated  that he wasnt clear  about  things, yet SOL didnt give any clarification.
I think SOL should have  explained: the difference between  insured and uninsured  losses;  
what he could and couldnt claim under his car insurance policy; the methods used in the 
insurance industry to value a car after a total loss; that even if he was able to claim  against  
the third party  directly that their insurer was likely to use the same valuation methods  as SOL 
did; and that if Mr B was unhappy with SOLs valuation, that he could complain  and refer his 
complaint to our service in the event he remained unsatisfied. Had this been done,  I think Mr 
B would have been placed in a position  to make  a decision early on, and its likely his claim 
for the total loss of his car would have  been resolved a number of years ago. So I dont think  
SOLs actions were  reasonable and as a result, Mr B has experienced distress  and 
inconvenience. I therefore require SOL to pay Mr B £300 compensation to address the 
distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require Society of Lloyds to:
Pay Mr B £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr B has 
Ref: DRN92448233accepted my final decision. If SOL pay later than this they must also pay interest  on 
that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% 
a year simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
 
1 If SOL pay interest and consider that theyre required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  
tax from that interest, they should tell Mr B how much they have taken  off. They  should  also give Mr B 
a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN9244823