K822xcomplaint
Mr K complained that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC had made  errors  about mortgage conditions.  
He said this meant he lost two properties.  
Barclays offered Mr K a total of £1,352 compensation.  Mr K says he expects £40,000.
background 
Mr K had a Barclays residential mortgage on a property which  Ill call A. 
Mr K started to talk to Barclays about  a residential mortgage on a different property, which Ill 
call B, in November 2016. Barclays gave Mr K a mortgage offer for property B in January 
2017. This mortgage offer had an incorrect condition in it, which  said that Mr Ks mortgage 
on property A would need to be repaid in full with no further borrowing from another source.  
This wasnt correct, because Mr K had already  told Barclays that he was going to take 
another mortgage on property A, with a different lender.
On 2 February 2017, Mr Ks solicitor queried this condition with Barclays.  The bank checked 
with Mr Ks mortgage adviser whether property A was going to be re-mortgaged  with another  
lender, and on 13 February  Barclays confirmed to Mr Ks solicitor  that it was ok to proceed.
On 14 March 2017, Mr K approached Barclays about a mortgage on a property which  Ill call 
C. Barclays did a desk-based valuation and sent an offer on 17 March, but this again had the 
same incorrect condition  in it. Barclays said it didnt get a letter  which Mr Ks solicitors sent in 
late April, but it did get a letter on 9 May querying the incorrect condition.  Barclays  asked Mr 
Ks mortgage adviser for more details, and carried out a new valuation. It issued a revised 
offer on 30 May. Barclays acknowledged it could have offered more  quickly if it hadnt  done 
a desk-based valuation in March.
Mr K paid off the Barclays mortgage  on property A in June  2017.  
Mr Ks proposed purchases  of property B and property C didnt go ahead, and he 
complained to Barclays. He said that the reason hed lost these properties was because of 
Barclays errors with the mortgage conditions. 
Barclays replied that there was no evidence to prove the bank had caused him to lose the 
purchases. It spoke  to Mr Ks solicitors, who said they couldnt comment on whether the 
issues with the offer had caused  Mr K to lose the properties - because it was at an early  
stage of conveyancing. And Barclays said that even if it had been proved beyond reasonable 
doubt that Barclays had caused  the loss, the bank still wouldnt have agreed  to the amount 
of losses which Mr K was claiming.
Barclays offered a total of £1,352. This comprised:
-£475 for a valuation  on property B, evidenced  by a screen shot of Mr Ks online 
account with another  bank;
-£337 extra solicitors  fees, confirmed by Mr Ks solicitors;
-£40 for an energy  performance certificate;
-£500 as an apology for the errors.
Barclays refused to pay other costs which Mr K claimed:
Ref: DRN95398972-£826 early redemption charges (ERC) which Barclays charged when Mr K decided to 
remortgage to another lender; 
-£1,064 product fee and redemption fee with another  lender;
-£883 which was the cost of the higher, no-ERC, Barclays  rate which Mr K had 
chosen, to give him the flexibility to remortgage elsewhere;
-£25,000 which Mr K said it would cost him to get a like-for-like property similar to the 
two hed lost;
-£10,000 for his family holiday which hed cancelled;
-£148 for increased broadband costs;
-Mr Ks hourly rate for the time hed taken in dealing with the issues.
Mr K wasnt  satisfied. He complained to this service and said he expected £40,000 
compensation. 
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ks complaint. He set out what had happened in detail.  He 
thought that it was fair for Barclays to pay the costs which it had offered to pay. 
However, the investigator thought that Barclays should also refund the £826 ERC.  He said 
this was because  if Barclays  hadnt made the second mistake, and the property purchase 
had gone ahead with Barclays, Mr K wouldnt  have  been charged  the ERC.  It was because 
of the two mistakes  that Mr K had decided to go to another  lender, as hed lost confidence in 
Barclays.
The investigator also considered Barclays should  increase the £500 compensation as an 
apology for its errors. He said he thought  it should be £800. 
But he didnt  agree that the bank should  pay the other costs which  Ive set out above, and he 
explained his reasons.
Barclays accepted  the investigators view.
Mr K didnt accept it. He replied that the compensation  was too low. He expected £40,000. 
He wants us to quantify  the damages which he, his wife and children had suffered.  He 
believed the investigator hadnt  considered  the time hed spent, or the hassle, for all three 
properties. He said the cash compensation was less than the time hed taken to complete 
the mortgage applications, as well as other  costs.  He considered the investigators  view 
unreasonable.
Mr K also sent a detailed,  point-by-point disagreement with parts  of the investigators  view. 
The investigator explained about the levels of compensation  which this service  recommends, 
and sent a link to our website. Mr K replied that it would be better  for him to get a solicitor to 
sue Barclays and claim his legal  costs as well.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
General points
First, Ill deal with some general points:
Ref: DRN95398973-Mr K has raised multiple points in his submissions to the service.  Ive understood and 
looked into all of those, but Ive commented  on what I think is vital to my conclusions;
-If Mr K does  not wish to accept this final decision, he is free to pursue his complaint 
through the courts,  as hes indicated. Our service is an informal dispute resolution 
service, not a court.
I have gone on to look in detail at what happened, including  all Mr Ks arguments. 
Items which I find Barclays  should refund 
I consider that its fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay Mr K the £852 it offered him, for 
the items  Ive set out above.  I agree with the investigator that it would also be fair for 
Barclays to refund the £826.40 ERC.
Ive addressed compensation for distress and inconvenience separately below, after 
considering the other items for which Mr K is claiming.
Items which I find Barclays  does not need  to refund
-£1,064 comprising £999 product fee and £65 redemption fee for another lender;
Mr K chose to go to another lender. I understand that he says he chose  to do so because 
hed lost confidence in Barclays after two mistakes. But Mr K would have incurred  a product 
and redemption fee with any other lender.
-£883 which was the cost of the higher, no-ERC, Barclays  rate which Mr K had 
chosen, to give him the flexibility to remortgage elsewhere;
Mr K has said he went for the standard  rate to save time. And he says it was Barclays  
negligence which had caused him to lose his proposed property. But I find that it was entirely  
Mr Ks choice  to go for a higher rate product which did not have an ERC, rather  than a 
cheaper rate which did have an ERC.  That left him free to explore  options with other lenders 
whenever he wished,  without incurring an expensive ERC.  This decision is one which  all 
borrowers looking at this type of choice have to make, when an existing product expires  and 
they have to look at new options.  I dont consider Barclays errors mean Mr K should be 
refunded for this. And he was only on the rate from 1 April 2017 to 23 June 2017.
-£25,000 which Mr K said it would cost him to get a like-for-like property similar to the 
two hed lost;
Im not persuaded that Barclays mistakes  were the reason why Mr K lost his properties. In 
particular, I note that the bank asked Mr Ks solicitors to confirm whether or not hed lost the 
properties because  of its errors. Mr Ks solicitors told Barclays  that it wouldnt comment, 
because it had happened at a very early stage  of the conveyancing process. Property  
transactions are never certain, and can fall through at any stage.
-£10,000 for his family holiday which hed cancelled;
It was Mr Ks choice if he decided to cancel  his holiday. Property transactions are intrinsically 
uncertain and if Mr K made a booking which was non-refundable, and cancelled it for a non-
insurable reason,  that was his decision. As Ive explained above,  I dont accept  that 
Barclays mistakes  were  the reason why Mr K lost his prospective purchases.  I dont  find that 
Barclays was responsible for Mr K cancelling his holiday.
-£148 for increased broadband costs;
Ref: DRN95398974Mr K argues  that his annual broadband deal had expired,  and he chose another provider so 
he could cancel at short notice when he moved property. Mr K hasnt given reasons why he 
couldnt transfer his existing provider  to a new property. And as Ive explained, I dont  find 
that Barclays errors caused  all the consequences which  Mr K alleges.
-Mr Ks hourly rate for the time hed taken in dealing with the issues
As the investigator  explained, this service  doesnt generally award compensation according 
to specific units of time which a consumer  spends on a complaint. And a number of the items 
which Mr K is claiming for, are things that hed have had to do anyway  such as visiting  the 
properties and taking time off work  to deal with them. Ultimately, property purchase is 
uncertain and can fall through at any time, as recognised  by Mr Ks own solicitors.  I dont find 
that Barclays was responsible for this.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
Taking the whole  series  of events into account,  I consider that £800  would be fair and 
reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience. For the reasons Ive set out 
above, I do not award any compensation for the hours Mr K says hes spent on his 
complaint. Nor does  it include any compensation for his family. We only compensate a 
banks customer,  not third parties.
I recognise that Mr K says he expects £40,000  compensation. But thats not in line with the 
scale of awards this service orders. The investigator  sent Mr K information about  how we 
look at compensation  payments for distress and inconvenience. 
I realise that Mr K believes  his case is exceptional. He informed the investigator that he 
doubts this service deals  with 500 such cases in a year.  Its not appropriate for me to 
comment on other cases which this service handles, or to compare them with Mr Ks 
complaint. Mr K can look at published cases on our website if he wants  a clearer 
understanding of our work. But I find that Mr Ks expectation of £40,000 isnt reasonable for 
distress and inconvenience, and compensation of £800 is in line with what  Id expect to see 
in similar  cases. I dont  require Barclays to pay more than this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I order Barclays Bank PLC to pay Mr K a total of £2,478.40, comprising:
-£852 for valuation  fee, additional  solicitors  cost, and Energy Performance Certificate;
-£826.40 for ERC charged;
-£800 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by the banks errors.
I do not uphold  Mr Ks claim for other  items or for £40,000 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN95398975Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9539897