K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Airdrie Savings Bank (Airdrie)  mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mr and Mrs W took with a loan at a 
meeting in 1990. 
Our adjudicators upheld  the complaint. Airdrie disagreed with the adjudicators opinions, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ws application form for the loan. The PPI was added  as a 
result of Mr and Mrs W signing this form. But Mr and Mrs W didnt have to tick or sign on the 
form to say they wanted the PPI. Instead PPI was automatically included unless a box on the 
form was crossed to opt-out. 
So unless Mr and Mrs W engaged with that part of the form, the format of the form meant the 
PPI would be added to their loan whether they wanted it or not.
There was a statement  next to the PPI box saying cover would be arranged unless Airdrie 
was advised to the contrary and that the box should be marked  if cover  was not required. 
Airdrie has said the wording of the form made  clear  the PPI was optional and that, by leaving 
the PPI box blank, Mr and Mrs W confirmed they wanted PPI. It has also said this approach, 
of including  PPI unless it was deselected, was compliant with the rules in force at the time. 
Ive thought carefully about all Airdrie has said about this  and all Mr and Mrs W have said 
in the course of their complaint. Looking at the form, I dont think  the information about  
opting out of PPI was easy to find. I think it could easily be missed. Also, part of what is said 
is all in capitals but the part about  what the consumer needs to do isnt.
With an opt-out box theres also the risk of a consumer misreading  or mistakenly  assuming  
the box will work in the opposite  way and that to take the product they have to tick or mark 
the box for it. 
Overall, I dont  think the information  about opting out of the PPI was easy to find on the form 
and clearly set out.
Airdrie has said its staff were never  instructed to tell customers PPI was compulsory. That 
may be, but, bearing in mind what Ive said above  about the format  of the form, what I have 
doesnt persuade  me Airdrie made it clear enough to Mr and Mrs W that they had a choice 
Ref: DRN95727742about taking the PPI and, on balance, Im not persuaded  they took the PPI knowing they 
didnt have to. So, I think Mr and Mrs W took the PPI without really wanting it.
Because of this I think I should uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
I also dont think Airdrie  gave Mr and Mrs W clear  enough information about  the policy.  I say 
this because what Ive seen doesnt persuade me Airdrie gave Mr and Mrs W clear enough 
information about claims arising from pre-existing  health issues being excluded.
In reaching this view,  Ive taken into account  all Airdrie has said about this, including what it 
has said about how Mr and Mrs W wouldve been issued with a policy  document after the 
loan was approved.  But this doesnt make me think Mr and Mrs W were made aware of this 
significant exclusion in a clear and fair way in good  time before the sale was concluded. For 
example, theres  nothing  on the application form to alert Mr and Mrs W to this exclusion.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs W because Mr W had a medical condition. And, 
taking into account  everything Airdrie  has said about  this and the terms it has sent us, I think 
it likely  Mr W wouldve had difficulty claiming  if his medical condition, known to him at the 
time of the sale, had kept him off work after the policy started. So Mr and Mrs W couldnt 
have claimed on the policy for everything they wouldve expected.
Airdrie points out that Mr W was working and theres  nothing to suggest  his condition  for 
which hed sought  treatment four years before the sale  was causing him problems at the 
time of the sale. But the condition was capable of causing him problems  as hed previously 
sought and received treatment for it.
Having considered all Airdries points, and bearing in mind  all Mr and Mrs W have said about 
it, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs W wouldve thought at the time of the sale Mr Ws condition  
was one capable  of keeping him off work in future. Taking everything into account, I dont 
think it likely  Mr and Mrs W wouldve wanted  to take the PPI if theyd known it didnt cover 
Mr W for the condition he already had. So, I think theyve lost out because of what Airdrie  did 
wrong in this respect. So I think I should  uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
So I think I should uphold  the complaint for each of the two separate  reasons Ive given, and 
for the reasons Ive given.  I say this having considered all Airdries points.
putting things right
Mr and Mrs W borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger  than it shouldve  
been. They  paid more than they shouldve each month and it cost them more  to repay the 
loan than it wouldve. So, Mr and Mrs W need  to get back the extra  theyve paid.
So, Airdrie  Savings Bank should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs W the difference between what they paid each month 
on the loan and what they wouldve paid without PPI.  
If the loan was paid off early, work  out and pay Mr and Mrs W the difference  
between what it cost to pay off the loan and what it would  have cost to pay off the 
loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs W paid from when they paid it 
Ref: DRN95727743until they get it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on. 
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Airdrie  Savings Bank  
can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Airdrie Savings Bank to take off tax from this interest. 
Airdrie Savings Bank must  give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken 
off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Airdrie Savings Bank should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9572774