K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 by post.  Mrs R says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mrs R aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  Mrs R has told us that he wasnt aware of the policy, and she would 
have declined it if she was given a choice. Barclays have provided a copy  of the paperwork 
available from the time the policy was sold. Mrs Rs credit card application form had a 
separate section  for PPI where the policy has been  selected. Mrs R has also signed the form 
agreeing with the selections made on it. So I think Barclays  made  it clear  that Mrs R didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
may not remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means she had 
available which included some  sick pay. And in any event the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to and for longer than the sick pay Mrs R would  have  received.  
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mrs R was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case. If Mrs R would 
like her cheque to be reissued she should  contact Barclays directly to arrange this.
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said including what she said about not making the 
selection on her application form for PPI and that the selection was made by someone else.  
Ref: DRN96226102Although I think its unlikely someone else made  the selection, and PPI showed clearly on 
Mrs Rs statements so I would have expected Mrs R to question  this if she hadnt agreed to 
the policy. So these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9622610