K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V say Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold 
them payment protection insurance (PPI).
To keep  things simpler, from now on Ill just refer to Santander as the seller.
background
Mr and Mrs V took out a mortgage in 2000. 
In 2003 they took out PPI to protect their mortgage monthly repayments in the event that 
Mr V became unexpectedly unemployed. This was arranged over the phone. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs V didnt  agree with our adjudicators view. Mr and Mrs V mainly  say they werent  
told about PPI being  taken out - and that they wouldnt have taken it if theyd been made 
aware of it. Mr and Mrs V also say that they had other ways  to pay their mortgage if Mr V 
couldnt work and they didnt need  PPI. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint. 
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Santander  hasnt been able to provide any documents from the time to show  how the PPI 
was taken out. But I dont think thats  surprising given that this sale took place so long ago. 
And it wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs V might  be able to remember  
about the sale after all this time.  Where  theres only limited information I have to look at all 
the available  information and decide  what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs V had held their mortgage  without PPI for some time.  So, I think  they wouldve 
been aware at the time that it was up to them  to arrange PPI to protect their mortgage if they 
decided this was what they wanted.  
Santander says they wouldve had to apply separately to take out the insurance  otherwise  
their mortgage wouldve  just continued without  it. 
Although I havent  seen  how Mr and Mrs V applied for PPI it looks likely they filled in a 
separate application form in order to have it added on to the mortgage.  I say this because  
Santander sent them a letter saying Welcome to Paymentcare. 
Paymentcare is what Santander  called the PPI it offered  to mortgage customers. 
The welcome letter also included  the Schedule of Cover confirming that theyd taken out 
unemployment cover  for Mr V. 
Ref: DRN99064092I can see why Mr and Mrs V mightve  wanted  PPI to do this. Paying the mortgage was a big 
financial commitment and their home  couldve been  at risk if they werent  able to make  the 
mortgage monthly repayments in full and on time. So I can understand that protecting the 
repayments wouldve  been an important consideration for Mr and Mrs V. 
Its agreed that Santander sold the policy to Mr and Mrs V over the phone. Santander says 
its advisor would've followed its usual sales process and discussed all aspects of the policy,  
including explaining benefits, exclusions, cost of cover, cancellation rights,  how to claim and 
important contact details  if the customer had any questions. 
Ive no clear reason  to think that Santander  wouldnt have followed its usual sales  process 
when it sold this PPI to Mr and Mrs V. And based on what  we know about these sales,  it 
seems likely that the sales advisor wouldve been  prompted to provide policy information as 
Santander has said - and explain that Mr and Mrs V had a choice in taking the policy  out.
I think its likely that Mr and Mrs V decided that they wanted to have the benefits the policy  
offered them   even if they hadnt thought this was important to them before. I find, on 
balance, that Mr and Mrs V signed  up for the policy knowing it was up to them to say if they 
wanted to take out the cover. And that it was added to the mortgage account when they 
requested this. 
Although Mr and Mrs V couldnt remember if the policy was recommended to them 
Santander says it advised Mr and Mrs V to buy the PPI. If a financial business makes  a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving  important policy information in a clear way.  
I dont know what was discussed about the PPI at the time. But from what I know of his 
circumstances Mr V was eligible for the insurance  and the policy  terms wouldnt have made 
it particularly difficult for him to make a claim. Mr V wasnt  affected  by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover. So it appears  that Mr V couldve benefitted from everything the policy  
offered.
Following our adjudicators initial view,  Mr and Mrs V sent us some more  information about 
their joint circumstances  at the time. This is useful to know  as it provides an overall picture  of 
their situation. I can see that both Mr and Mrs V had good sick pay arrangements  at work  
but this doesnt affect my overall  view on whether Santander mis-sold them this PPI. Thats  
because the cover Mr and Mrs V chose  protected just Mr V in the event of unemployment  
only. So what I mostly need to think about is what other means Mr and Mrs V had to rely on 
in those circumstances.
PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months  for any one claim if Mr V lost his job and became 
unexpectedly unemployed. And he couldve made repeated claims on the policy , giving 
Mr and Mrs V long term protection  whilst  they were paying their mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs V mentioned having other  insurance and work benefits  but these  paid out in 
other circumstances  and didn't duplicate the protection that this policy offered. 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any redundancy money Mr V mightve got if hed lost his 
job, giving  Mr and Mrs V some additional financial security in those  circumstances.
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Ref: DRN99064093I dont know if Mr and Mrs V wouldve  always had saving to rely on if Mr V wasnt able to 
work. The policy would've paid out for longer than the amount of savings Mr V has 
mentioned wouldve lasted if theyd had to rely on these to cover their outgoings. 
Mr V also had some valuable assets  he couldve  sold. But I dont know if the sale of these 
wouldve been enough to pay the mortgage for very long  bearing in mind  it was a financial 
commitment Mr and Mrs V were expecting to have to pay for a number of years. Having PPI 
meant Mr and Mrs V were nt at risk of being  forced to sell valuable things they owned  
perhaps when  they mightnt have been  able to get as much money as they hoped  for in 
order to quickly raise  funds to pay the mortgage.  
Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mr and Mrs V told us that Mrs V couldve  returned to 
full time employment if necessary. But its possible that mightnt have been a realistic  option 
as their circumstances  mightve  changed. PPI offered Mr and Mrs V the security and peace 
of mind that their mortgage monthly  repayments were covered in the event  of Mr Vs 
unexpected unemployment. 
So, based  on everything Mr and Mrs V have told us about their circumstances, I think PPI 
still offered them a worthwhile benefit. 
I dont know if the information  Santander gave Mr and Mrs V about the PPI costs was as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But the monthly  cost was set out in the welcome letter and they 
couldve queried the PPI then if this wasnt something they wanted. Ive seen nothing that 
suggests they did that. And as it appears  that they chose to take out the policy when they 
didnt have to, they seem  to have wanted  it  even if theyve now forgotten  this. As far as 
I can see, the policy was affordable for Mr and Mrs V at the time  and they couldve 
cancelled it without further cost if their circumstances  changed  or they no longer wanted to 
pay to keep it running.  
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs V still wouldve decided to buy the policy  to cover Mr V if theyd been 
better informed as the policy  gave them useful protection in their particular situation.
Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give back to Mr and Mrs V some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Vs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Santander 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs V paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
Based on all the information Ive seen and been told so far, it doesnt look to me as if 
Mr and Mrs V lost out as a result of anything Santander did wrong.  So, as things stand, Im 
not planning on telling Santander  that it needs  to do anything to put things right.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr and Mrs V have  confirmed they have  nothing further to add. 
Santander has made no further comments.
Ref: DRN99064094my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change my view, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for 
the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN9906409