K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Northern Bank Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr O applied for a credit  card in branch in May 2008  and the PPI was also sold at this time. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr O disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Mr O, Northern Bank shouldve made it clear  the policy was optional.  
It also shouldve got Mr Os agreement  to take it out. Mr O says the PPI was sold as a 
compulsory product. As the credit  card and PPI were taken out during a meeting I dont 
know what was discussed.  Where I have limited  information about  a sale, I have to decide 
what I think is more likely  based on the information  and evidence  I have seen.
Northern Bank has given us a copy  of the financial summary which  wouldve been given to 
Mr O following his discussions with the advisor. Within this I can see there  is a section called 
Insurance and Protection . This details what was discussed during the meeting  and confirms  
that PPI has been  recommended  to Mr O. And an x has been placed  next to the statement: 
I require Payment Protection Insurance. There is also a section below this to decline the 
recommendation to take PPI. I dont know what was discussed at the time Mr O took out the 
card, but I wouldve  expected Mr O to read over this summary and raise  any questions  he 
had at the time.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mr O knew at the time
that the PPI was optional and that he decided to take it. But I can understand why he might 
not recall this now, as the sale took place  many years ago.
Northern Bank advised Mr O to take out the policy. So it shouldve  made  sure the policy was 
right for him. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Os circumstances at the time the PPI was sold, 
I think it was. I say this because:
Mr O appears  to have been  eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Mr Os told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he wouldnt 
have been affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt  cover   like known health 
issues or unusual  employment  arrangements. So there  was nothing to stop him 
claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed to.
Mr Os told us he wouldve received some sick pay from his employer. The PPI 
couldve been of use to Mr O as it wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on 
the card for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work  due to illness  or if he was made 
redundant. This wouldve  been  on top of any sick pay he wouldve got, meaning  he 
wouldve been able to use this for other  everyday  living  expenses.
Ref: DRN90462612Northern Bank has told us the PPI wouldve cost Mr O around 77p per £100 of his 
outstanding monthly balance.  I havent  seen anything to suggest this wasnt 
affordable to Mr O. And as the premium  was paid monthly, he could have cancelled 
the policy at any time if anything in his circumstances  changed.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mr O, Northern Bank  also shouldve given 
him clear information about the policy so that he could make a proper  choice about  whether 
or not to take it out. I dont know what steps  Northern Bank took to do this and its possible 
some things werent explained  as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer  
information wouldve  changed Mr Os decision. I think hed still have bought it. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the policy was suitable  for him.
Ive also thought about Mr Os comments about how he was sold PPI over the years  on 
various credit cards. But I have only looked at the PPI sold on one credit  card in 2008. And 
Ive also considered his comments  that he couldve relied on family and friends. Whilst I 
dont doubt it wouldve  been the intention of family and friends to help, this assistance  cant 
be guaranteed,  and it would depend  on the familys circumstances at the time. So these 
points dont change  my decision.
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Northern Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because  Northern Bank didnt tell 
Mr O, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
I understand that Northern Bank  has since made a revised offer and it should be in touch 
with Mr O with more  details about this if it hasnt already been. 
Ref: DRN90462613my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already paid some of 
the commission and profit share  to Mr O but it should pay him anything  extra it now 
calculates he is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9046261