K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains Lloyds  Bank PLC wont refund  him for spending from his account  that he 
didnt make or agree anybody else could carry out on his behalf.
background
I need to refer to some  details about whats happened here that Mr T may not be very happy 
about being included. But they are important to understand the background  to his complaint. 
Im not including them to upset Mr T in any way.
Mr T was in prison. He had his Lloyds debit card with him when he went into custody and it 
was kept with his other belongings until he was released.
While he was in prison, Mr T says he wasnt able to work and earn money to buy the 
(limited) things  he needed during  his sentence.  So, in January 2017,  he gave the details of 
his debit card to his partner so they could  send him money. Two transfers were made.
When Mr T was released he checked  his bank account and could see large amounts of 
money had been  taken  out through payments to one company and to buy food and meals. 
So he contacted Lloyds.
The bank looked into things for Mr T. It gave him a refund of some of the money taken out of 
the account. But Lloyds said it wouldnt give Mr T back any of the money spent after January 
2017 as it considered this was when hed allowed his partner access  to his account.
And some of the spending  appeared to be for rent payments for Mr Ts usual home address. 
Some of the spending had been  carried out from overseas, where Mr T said his partner (and 
other members of his family) lived. The other spending had been made in the UK.
Mr T wasnt happy with Lloyds decision. So he contacted  us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into things  for Mr T but he didnt  think Lloyds had to refund 
any more of the money. He confirmed the largest  part of the spending was to a company 
that processed rent payments for the address of Mr Ts usual home. And the other spending 
appeared to be carried  out in that same area.
There was some confusion as to whether Mr T lived alone and what responsibilities he might  
have for other members of his family. But the adjudicator was satisfied all the spending had 
been carried out with Mr Ts permission.  And in coming to this conclusion, he considered  the 
requirements of the Payment Services Regulations  (PSRs)  as these set out whats  needed 
for a bank to hold a customer liable for spending  in circumstances like this.
Mr T didnt  agree with the adjudicator. He said it wasnt  possible for him to have spent the 
money. And he wanted to know where the food and meal orders had been delivered  to. The 
adjudicator explained this wasnt  our role  we were limited to looking at whether Lloyds had 
done anything  wrong in not refunding Mr T.
Mr T still wasnt happy. He asked for his complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.  So its 
been passed to me to review and issue a final decision on.
Ref: DRN97112562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr T feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what  hes 
said to our adjudicator  (and to Lloyds).  And thats not surprising. Several thousands  of 
pounds have been taken out of Mr Ts account. So hes bound  to be concerned.
Im also sorry  to hear of some of the later difficulties Mr T has described  hes had  
particularly around  his housing situation. Those  wont  have helped  matters.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr T that I agree with the adjudicator that Lloyds doesnt have to 
refund him any more  money. Indeed, theres not a great deal I can add to what  the 
adjudicator has already  said.  I think he set out the position quite thoroughly.
Having said that, its important I reassure Mr T that Ive looked  at his complaint  afresh  and 
considered everything  he and Lloyds have said.
There isnt any dispute Mr T didnt carry out the spending himself.  He was in prison.  The 
issue I have to consider  is whether it was more  likely  the spending  was  effectively  carried  
out with Mr Ts permission. And, like the adjudicator, I think it was.
Mr T admits to giving his partner the details from his debit card in January 2017. Im not sure 
how Mr T would  have  been able to get access to his card while  he was in prison. But 
I accept this is possible  or he may simply have kept a note of the details at the time the 
card was taken from him when he went into prison.
Its possible Mr Ts partner may have used his card to buy things Mr T didnt know  about  or 
Mr T wouldnt have  wanted to buy himself. But he has to accept theres  a risk in passing on 
details of his account with Lloyds  that should be known  only to him. So I dont think  the bank 
did anything wrong  in terms of not refunding any money spent from January 2017.
The largest amount  of the spending was to cover rent payments for Mr Ts usual  home 
address. It seems reasonable to me that hed want to keep up these payments while  he was 
in prison. So it isnt any surprise that Mr Ts partner (or somebody else)  made  those 
payments using the details form Mr Ts card. Theres certainly no loss to Mr T in this regard.
And it seems the person  buying the food or meals  must be known to Mr T as well. Its 
notable the spending only took place while Mr T was in prison. As soon as he was released 
the spending stopped.  Thats  not how I would expect a fraudster (unknown to Mr T) to 
operate. How would they know to stop using the card?
The adjudicator is right that it isnt our role to go into the level of detail about some  of the 
spending Mr T might like us to. We do have to make enquiries  to be confident  whether a 
bank has acted correctly  or not. But detailed investigations into fraud are a matter  for the 
police. They may be able to do more to establish where some of the deliveries were made. 
Or Mr T could  contact the various companies  themselves.
Ref: DRN97112563So, in summary,  I think Lloyds is right not to refund Mr T. And in coming to this conclusion, 
Ive considered carefully the requirements  of the PSRs, and the guidance of the Financial  
Conduct Authority,  around  authorisation of spending. And, on this occasion, Im satisfied 
Lloyds can hold Mr T responsible for it.
I realise Mr T will be disappointed with my decision. He may want  to take the matter further 
through other routes.  But my decision brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve  his 
dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for him. Im sorry  we cant  help Mr T any more on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint and 
Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to refund him any more  money.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9711256