K821x#15complaint
Mr B is seeking to recover just under £22,000 from TSB Bank plc (TSB), which he lost as a 
result of a third-party scam.
background  
On 21 February 2019, Mr B received a phone call from someone who he thought was Her 
Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC). Mr B was self-employed at the time and during 
this call, he was deceived into believing that he had an outstanding tax bill. The person 
calling Mr B appeared to be calling from a known  HMRC  contact  number. Mr B was told he 
would have to pay his unpaid tax bill immediately - otherwise he was facing a custodial 
sentence and at risk of losing his family home. 
Over the next two hours, Mr B was convinced to send  11 payments of around  £2,000  each 
to the fraudster  some  of these payments were funded by transfers in from his savings 
accounts. On more than one occasion, Mr B was told the money he had transferred had 
been placed into a holding account and he would need to send more to the correct  
account if he wanted to avoid an imminent arrest  warrant and court proceedings. Mr B was 
told that anything  he had overpaid  would  be paid back to him when the money in the holding  
account was released.
A couple of hours later, Mr B told his wife about  what had happened and at this point he 
realised he had been the victim of a scam - which he reported to TSB straightaway.  But by 
the time TSB contacted  the payee  bank on his behalf, all of the funds had been removed 
from the payee account. 
TSB initially declined  to offer Mr B a refund  of the amount  he had lost. It said it had carried  
out Mr Bs instructions  in making  the payments and Mr B had failed to verify  who he was 
speaking to / what he was told before  making  the transfers. It said there wasnt  anything 
about the transactions themselves that would have prompted further checks  from TSB 
before they were  processed.  TSB also said it had followed  the correct  procedures in 
contacting the beneficiary bank in attempting to recover Mr Bs funds. But as the money  had 
already been removed  from the recipient account,  there wasnt anything further it could do.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mr B brought  his complaint to our service  and one of our 
investigators looked into things. Our investigator thought Mr Bs complaint should be 
upheld. She thought TSB shouldve contacted Mr B before it allowed the payments to go 
through and if it had, the scam couldve been  prevented.
TSB didnt  accept our investigators findings. It said it didnt think the first three individual 
payments (in isolation)  wouldve  looked  suspicious enough to flag on its fraud  monitoring 
systems but it did acknowledge that the following eight payments could have been 
considered unusual and couldve been picked up on, giving TSB an opportunity to 
contact Mr B and prevent  the scam from continuing.  Because of this, TSB offered to 
refund Mr B from the fourth  transaction  onwards   a total of 8 transactions amounting to 
£15,941 plus interest. Mr B did not agree and he asked for an Ombudsman to look into 
things, so the complaint was passed  to me.
I have since contacted both TSB and Mr B to inform them that I am minded to reach a 
different outcome to both our investigator and TSB  I thought a fair and reasonable 
Ref: DRN95066062outcome to this complaint would be a refund  of the third transaction  and any further 
transactions made afterwards  a total of 9 transactions amounting  to £17,934  plus 
interest. Mr B agreed with my initial thoughts but TSB did not. 
As an agreement has not yet been reached, the complaint is now with me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to be good  industry practice at the time.
Upon reading  all the available evidence and arguments, I have concluded that the fair and 
reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances,  would be to partially uphold this complaint.  Ill 
explain why.
It is common ground that Mr B authorised  all of the scam payments amounting to £21,923. 
Over a period  of around two hours,  Mr B made  11 transfers each totalling just under £2,000.  
I accept that these were  authorised payments even though Mr B was the victim of a scam.  
He used his security credentials to request the payments  online.  So, although he did not 
intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment  Services Regulations 2017, 
and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr B is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been  monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers  were  at risk of fraud  (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated  fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
TSB has accepted that it shouldve stepped in and contacted Mr B at the point he attempted 
to make the fourth payment. In doing so it has accepted it could have done more  here to 
prevent some of Mr Bs loss. But having looked at how the activity unfolded on Mr Bs 
account, I think TSB shouldve stepped in earlier than it is saying it shouldve. Ill explain 
why. 
Ref: DRN95066063In short,  I dont agree that the activity  on Mr Bs account only started  to look suspicious from 
the fourth  transaction onwards. I think the activity on the account started to look unusual at 
the point Mr B attempted  to make the third transaction and I think the activity  on the account 
warranted further action from TSB from this point onwards.  By this point the total value of the 
transactions had quickly started to mount up and there had been three relatively  high value 
transactions leave  the account  in quick succession.  
Ive looked at Mr Bs account statements for the six months leading up to the scam and I can 
see that he rarely transferred more than £500  from this account. But, during the scam,  
specifically, in just over four minutes, he transfers  £5,982 over a series of three separate 
payments:
The first payment amounts to £1,995 - four times the amount of any payment Mr B 
had made in the preceding six months.
 
A second payment of £1,994 then takes place two minutes later. This takes Mr Bs 
total outlay to £3,989.
A third payment for £1,993 is then made taking Mr Bs total outlay to £5,982  in just 
over four minutes.  
All payments  are made  to a new payee.
I agree  with TSB that there wasnt anything about the first payment of £1,995 that shouldve 
put it on notice  that Mr B mightve been  at risk of financial harm.  I also dont think the second 
payment wouldve looked so unusual  that it shouldve flagged  on TSBs fraud monitoring 
systems. But I am satisfied that by the third payment a pattern of potential fraud was starting 
to appear here. The activity on the account  had started to look suspicious. 
Mr B rarely used  this account to transfer  more than £500. And so, Im satisfied that a series 
of relatively high value payments happening in such quick  succession to a new payee 
shouldve put TSB on notice that he may be at risk of financial harm.  This is not normal  
account activity  for Mr B and its uncharacteristic of the way he usually manages his account.  
And so, by the time Mr B attempted  to make the third transaction, I think TSB shouldve  been 
concerned that something might not be quite right and it shouldve  contacted  Mr B to verify  
the legitimacy of these  payments before processing them. If it had, I think the scam wouldve 
come to light relatively easily and been  uncovered and prevented. Ill explain why. 
This is a scam that is all too common and it is a scam that is now well-known  to banks. And 
Im satisfied that had TSB contacted Mr B to ask about the payments, he wouldve told them  
he was making payments  to HMRC for an unpaid tax bill  he hadnt  been provided with a 
cover story by the scammers. Knowing the prevalence  of this type of scam, at this point TSB 
couldve probed a bit more  asking  Mr B if hed been told about this unpaid tax bill before 
now and if hed been able to check and verify  who he was speaking to  especially as he 
appears to have received a cold call.
TSB couldve told Mr B that the circumstances leading up to him making these transfers had 
all the hallmarks of a well-known scam and that HMRC would not contact him out of the blue 
and threaten a custodial sentence upon the first notification of an unpaid tax bill. It could  
Ref: DRN95066064have directed Mr B to log into his HMRC account  to check or to contact HMRC on a well-
established contact  number, not one shown to him by the fraudster, before he made any 
further payments.  And Im satisfied  that this would  have effectively broken the spell  for Mr B 
and he wouldnt have  made any further  payments.
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if TSB had asked some probing 
questions are reinforced by the fact that by the time Mr B speaks to his wife, he says, and I 
accept, that reflecting on what  had just occurred and been discussed, he started  to entertain 
doubts. But by then it was too late, the funds had already  left and were almost immediately 
removed from the payee  account by the scammers  (which meant  TSB could not, despite  
efforts, recover Mr Bs funds from the payee  bank).  In other  words,  if the staff had carried out 
further or better questioning  in line with a banks duty of care, it seems probable that Mr B 
would have become credulous about  the scam  in time and would not have continued to 
make payments to the fraudster. The fraud would have failed at this point; and Mr B would 
not have lost £17,934.  
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for completeness,  
I will say that TSB contacted the payee  bank within an hour of being notified of the scam and 
were informed the next day that the scammers had withdrawn all of Mr Bs funds. 
I have also considered whether Mr B should bear some responsibility for the loss he suffered 
here. However, it is clear  that up to and including the time of authorising the payments, he 
was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing  or the 
consequences of his actions. He thought he was paying a high priority  debt that he owed. I 
am satisfied  Mr B should  bear no responsibility  on this occasion,  he was simply the unwitting  
and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial 
matters; Mr B was a layperson. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mr B for the 
loss he suffered from the third transaction onwards, without any reduction,  together  with 
interest to compensate  him for being  deprived  of the money  he lost.  I am satisfied that had 
the fraudster not taken  the money  from Mr B it would have remained in his savings account, 
so interest should  be at that rate.  
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about TSB Bank  plc  and I therefore  require the bank to:
Pay Mr B £17,934  within  28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my 
final decision; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the savings  account rate from the date of loss to the date 
of refund*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2021.
Ref: DRN95066065Emly Hanley
Ombudsman
*TSB may be required by Her Majestys Revenue & Customs  to deduct tax from the interest. If it does, and if Mr 
B requests  it, TSB should  provide him with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off, so he may
reclaim it if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9506606