K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr H says Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard,  mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Barclaycard had to make  it clear  to Mr H that he had a choice about it. 
Mr H says he was under the impression the PPI was compulsory, but he hasnt given us 
much detail about what was said or why he felt this.
Barclaycards records  show the PPI started  around four years  after the credit card. So it 
seems likely the PPI was sold over the phone. Barclaycard has sent us a copy of the phone 
script it says was in use at the time the PPI started. And this shows the advisor wouldve 
been instructed  to ask whether the customer would like to apply for PPI.
As the credit card had been  open for around  four years before the PPI was sold, I dont think  
Mr H can reasonably have thought  he had to have the PPI to get the card,  And, based on 
the evidence I have and what I understand about  Barclaycards  sales  practices at the time, I 
think its likely that Barclaycard did make it clear  to Mr H that he had a choice about the PPI.
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check that it was right for him. And, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example, 
Mr H doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. The policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than Mr H has told us he wouldve 
bene entitled to sick pay. And hes told us he didnt have any savings  he couldve used to 
make his repayments if he wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for him, Barclaycard had to give Mr H clear information about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But, for 
the same  reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have been useful 
for Mr H if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr H off taking it out.
Which means Barclaycard  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Barclaycard didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN90581692Mr H has said he didnt claim when he was made redundant as he didnt realise he could. 
But I dont think Mr H not realising he could claim at a later date necessarily means the 
policy was mis-sold. If Mr H wants to make a retrospective claim on the policy,  he should 
contact Barclaycard directly.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt  have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9058169