K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Bank  of Scotland plc sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr P took out a PPI policy alongside  a credit card that started in 2002. Mr P thinks the policy 
was mis-sold. Bank of Scotland said that it had no records showing Mr P had ever used the 
card  and so it didnt  think  that Mr P had ever been  charged for the PPI.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, and didnt think Mr P had paid for the card. So he 
hadnt lost out.
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. So the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.  
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think Mr Ps case should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Bank of Scotland says the policy started in April 2002 and was cancelled in February  2007   
and Ive seen  records showing  this. But Bank  of Scotland says Mr P never paid anything for 
the PPI. So Ive thought  about what Bank of Scotland has said alongside the other 
information I have  about the card.
Bank of Scotland has sent us statements from February 2003 onwards, together with 
statements for June  2002  and November  2002.  None of these statements show  Mr P ever 
spent anything on the card. 
Mr P hasnt sent us anything to show he was ever charged premiums for this policy.
So on balance, I think its most likely  that Mr P didnt  use the credit card. PPI is charged to 
the account based on what  Mr P owed when Bank of Scotland prepared  Mr Ps statements. 
As Mr P didnt use the card this means  he wasnt charged for PPI.
For these reasons, I dont  think  Mr P was ever charged anything for the PPI. This means he 
hasnt lost out from being sold the policy. So I dont think I need to think about whether the 
PPI was mis-sold as, even if I thought it was, there  wouldnt be any compensation due. This 
means I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Ref: DRN96009832Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9600983