K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) when he took 
out a loan in 1995.
background
Mr R applied for a loan in 1995 and took out a single premium PPI policy at the same time.  
The PPI policy covered Mr Rs loan repayments  for up to 12 months if he lost his job. And if 
Mr R became too unwell  to work  it would cover  his loan repayments  until he returned to work  
or until the loan was repaid. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so his complaints  been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Where there is limited information, I will make  my decision based on whats  more likely to 
have happened, taking  into account  the evidence  available,  what  both parties have told me 
and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The loan and the PPI were arranged  during  a meeting at a branch.  Mr R has told us the PPI 
wasnt discussed and he wasnt  given much information on it. 
Lloyds doesnt  have copies of any of the paperwork for the sale.  I dont think this is 
surprising given the sale took place  over 20 years ago. Lloyds has, though, shown us 
sample documents it says it was using around the time Mr R took out the loan and was sold 
the PPI. Based on what I know  about these sales at this time, I think its probable  that Mr R 
wouldve seen documents similar  to those Lloyds has given us.
Based on the sample Ive seen I think the loan agreement Mr R is likely  to have seen, would 
have had a section about PPI with the option to tick a box accepting  the PPI or a separate  
box to decline it. 
Taking into account everything  Ive seen, and what I know of Lloyds usual sales  process  at 
the time,  I think its more  likely Lloyds made it clear Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that he chose  to buy it - although I can understand why he might not remember this after so 
many years.
Ive thought about what Mr R has said about  feeling pressured to take out the PPI. But 
pressure is a subjective area and what one person may think  is pressure another  may not. I 
cant say what was discussed during the meeting when the PPI was sold. And I think its 
Ref: DRN94258432possible the sales representative couldve said to Mr R that it was a good idea to take the 
policy but that isnt the same as saying  he must  have it. So without stronger evidence of this 
I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this basis. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R. That means it had to make sure it was right for him. 
And from what Ive seen it looks like it was.
I can see Mr R was eligible for the policy. It didnt cover some things - but it doesnt  look as if 
these wouldve affected Mr R. For example he didnt have any medical  conditions  that would  
not be covered.
Mr R told us he wouldve received sick pay from his employer if he became  unwell  as well as 
having some  savings. But the PPI sold to him would have paid out in addition to any sick pay 
or savings  he had. The policy would also pay out if Mr R lost his job, meaning he could use 
any redundancy pay for other living costs. And it wouldve allowed him to use any savings he 
had for other expenses, or keep them intact for the future.   So I think  Mr R wouldve found  
the policy useful  if things went wrong.
The PPI policy was paid for with a single premium upfront which  was added to the loan.        
I note that if Mr R cleared  the loan early he wouldnt have got a proportionate rebate. But Ive 
not seen any evidence that Mr R intended  to repay  the loan early  and Ive not seen that he 
had a history of doing so in 1995. So I dont  think the early cancellation terms made the 
policy unsuitable for him.
Lloyds also needed  to give Mr R enough  information for him to decide  if he wanted  to buy 
the policy. From the sample loan agreement Id say its likely the information  Lloyds gave 
Mr R about the PPI  and especially concerning the interest hed have to pay on the PPI 
premium  wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  But Ive found on balance  that he chose 
to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of cover.  And I dont think 
the amount of interest,  at around £25, was enough  to put him off. For the same reasons 
that I dont  think the policy  was unsuitable  for him, I dont think  better information would 
have changed  his mind about  buying it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr Rs lost out because of how Lloyds sold him 
the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint, and I make no award  against  
Lloyds Bank  PLC
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9425843