K820x#14complaint
Mr F says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr F bought  the policy in September 2000  at the same time as taking out a loan. He says he 
applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £700 was paid in advance by being added to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was around £168.68  with the PPI costing approximately an additional 
£23.62 making  the total monthly repayment £192.30.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr F for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  Mr Fs monthly loan repayment for up to the 
remaining term of the loan in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the 
event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr F was employed as a compliance officer. He has told us he was entitled  to at 
least six months pay from his employer if he was off work sick. He has also told us he would 
have received redundancy pay if he lost his job and had death in service benefit equal  to two 
times his salary. Mr F has said he didnt have  any health problems at the time of the sale. 
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2002.
Mr Fs representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Fs representative  says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr F wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Fs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr F about the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr F and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN90531062The information Mr F received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr F disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs complaint
This sale took place  in September 2000  before the sale of general insurance  products like 
this became regulated in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles 
for Businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN90531063The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Fs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Fs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN90531064-Whether HSBC gave Mr F sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr F, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr F and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr F know he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Given the length of time since the sale, HSBC  understandably  dont have  the actual 
completed documents from the time of the sale. However, it has provided  us with sample 
documents. These are dated  the same year as when Mr F was sold his PPI policy. And I 
have no reason to believe  that the sample documents dont  reflect the type of documents   
Mr F would have been asked to complete.  So Ive looked at these to help me decide how 
PPI is likely to have  been presented to Mr F.
In particular, Ive seen a sample  document headed creditor protection declaration. This 
sets out I have decided  to take loan protection.  As part of the sales  process,  the consumer 
would have been asked to sign this document if they wanted  to take PPI. There  does  not 
appear to be any compulsion on the consumer to sign such  a declaration.  Although Mr F has 
told us PPI was added without his knowledge, I think its more likely that he signed  such  a 
declaration and that is how PPI came to be added  to his account.
Ive also seen a sample  credit agreement.  This has a section for PPI setting out its costs 
separately to the loan.  Beneath this section it says  I have decided  to take Personal Loan 
Protection and asks for the name  of the person to be covered by the insurance. It appears  
that if Mr F had chosen not to take PPI then this would  have been reflected in this credit 
agreement. Mr F would have been asked to sign the credit agreement.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr F knew the policy was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Mr F says that advice wasnt provided during  this sale. HSBC  cant confirm whether it 
provided advice  during  the sale or not. My understanding of HSBCs sales process  is that 
branch sales are likely  to have been  advised sales. And given that Mr F believes this sale 
took place in branch, I think its more likely that HSBC may have provided  advice  during  the 
sale.
 
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr F with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN90531065the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr F. There is no record of what the adviser  discussed  in relation to the 
policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had 
some limited  information about Mr Fs financial circumstances,  but there is no specific  
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr F would have been caught  
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet his needs.  For example, there is nothing to suggest HSBC considered whether Mr F 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr F given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr F, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr F had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Fs ability to continue  to meet 
his loan repayments would have been  put under strain if he was not working for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the redundancy  benefits and sick pay 
benefits he says he would have been  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr F.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr F. There was 
nothing about  Mr Fs employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr F cancelled the policy 
early, there is nothing to suggest (at the time) that Mr F had plans to repay the loan 
early. The purpose  of the loan was not debt consolidation or anything  else which 
might suggest a need to repay  the loan early,  or that this was likely to happen.
 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr F sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what HSBC was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr F was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr F was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr F would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Mr F would have known that the single premium 
Ref: DRN90531066was being added to the loan, how much that premium was, the interest charged on that 
premium as well as the monthly  cost (as this information would, in my view, have been 
sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr F would have signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before    
Mr F agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr F Im not persuaded HSBC  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr F. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr F all of the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Fs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like    Mr Fs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Fs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr F about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Fs representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say   I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr F has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
What effect did HSBCs  shortcomings  have on Mr F? To what extent did Mr F suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr F. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr F suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr F would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
Ref: DRN90531067While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr F, I have  found  that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr F has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, 
Mr F would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr F says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr F had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Fs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr F was given about the cost was clear.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr F would get back  in return  
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Fs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr F thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition  or disease which Mr F 
knew of, or should reasonably have known  of on the start date; or any medical 
condition or disease  for which he received treatment, advice or was referred for 
investigation during 12 months before the start date and which  recurred with 12 
months of the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr F 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr F repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr F to have done so; 
and
Ref: DRN90531068The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr F be unable to 
do any job.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr F pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr F from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr F didnt have  any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and they were  in permanent employment. Although it appears,  Mr F 
settled the agreement early, theres no evidence to suggest he intended at the time of the 
sale, to repay the loan early. So, I still think he had some good  reasons to take the policy 
out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr F would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr F had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was not only unable  to do his job but 
also unable  to do any job it might  have played  into his thinking about  what he would do. And 
I accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although given Mr Fs circumstances,  on 
balance, I still think he would have  been  interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr F made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr F 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Fs representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr F would  not have bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN90531069Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr F 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr F believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr F in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr F compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr F thinks  HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr F, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Fs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr F and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr F in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Ref: DRN905310610Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9053106