K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2010. Mrs M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Mrs M took out PPI during  a phone call with the business in 2010. The policy  was designed 
to protect  her card repayments in the event she was off work sick, through accident or if she 
was made  unemployed. It cost 79 pence for every  £100 she owed on the card.  And it would 
pay out a monthly  benefit of 10% of the outstanding  balance for up to 12 months upon 
successful claim.
Mrs M told us that at the time of taking out PPI she was working,  entitled  to statutory sick 
pay, she didnt  have any other means such as savings and she was in good health.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said she thought Mrs M had been given a 
choice and there was nothing  to suggest Mrs M had lost out such that Capital  One should 
give her back  everything she paid for the policy. But Capital Ones  offer to pay back to Mrs M 
some of the cost due to high commission was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs M disagrees,  so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Both parties  agree that this was a non-advised sale, in other words, Capital One didnt 
recommend the policy to Mrs M or advise  her to take it. So Capital One was only required to 
provide Mrs M with enough  information about the policy  so she could make  an informed 
decision about whether or not to buy it herself.
Ive decided that in this case the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Capital One no longer  has a copy of the call recording, which isnt surprising given the 
time which has passed. But Capital One has provided a copy  of the telephone  call script 
it says  and which  I accept on the balance  of probabilities  was used during the phone  
call Mrs M had when she took out PPI. And based  on this I think  it is more likely  than not 
that the representative made it clear to Mrs M that she didnt have to take the policy  out 
but that she chose  to do so without undue pressure.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mrs 
M was affected by any of the main  exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.  And it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong  she didnt have any 
Ref: DRN90506552enhanced sick pay or savings  to fall back on for example. At a cost of 79p per £100  of 
the balance, it also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means Capital  One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mrs 
M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided Mrs M hasnt suffered loss as a result of 
taking out PPI to the extent that Capital One (Europe) Plc has to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs M.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9050655