K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd declined a charge back request and a claim under Section  
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA 1974), to refund the cost of an item he didnt 
receive. 
background
Mr S placed  an order for a watch in March 2018; he paid £453.98  on his credit  card.  Mr S 
signed for the parcel that he picked up from a collection point. But Mr S says that when he 
opened the parcel at home  the box was unsealed  and empty.  He wants  NewDay  to refund 
him the cost of the watch.
Mr S was unable to resolve  this with the supplier, who advised him to report the matter to the 
police, so he got in touch  with NewDay to refund his money either under the chargeback  
scheme or under a Section 75 claim under the CCA  1974. 
NewDay attempted a chargeback and credited Mr S account with the cost of the watch.  
However, the chargeback wasnt successful and NewDay reversed the refund. It also 
rejected Mr S Section 75 claim as the supplier had confirmed the parcel was the correct 
weight at the point of delivery, so it didnt  think there  had been  a breach of contract.
Mr S complained about the outcome of his claims to NewDay. He was also unhappy with the 
standard of service  received  during  a call. NewDay said it handled the chargeback  and 
Section 75 claim correctly. But it apologised and paid Mr S £50 for the poor service  received 
during a call.
Unhappy with NewDays response Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should  be upheld. He didnt think NewDay had 
done anything  wrong. 
Mr S disagreed, he said that NewDay had relied  on what the supplier had said about  the 
weight of the item at delivery,  but didnt have any evidence to support it. He asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain my reasons below;
There are two ways that a bank can try to help a customer recover  money  paid on a credit 
card. The first way is under the chargeback scheme,  the rules are set out by the relevant 
card scheme, in this case MasterCard and the other  method  is under Section  75 of the CCA 
1974.
NewDay processed a chargeback,  but this was defended by the supplier who provided 
evidence to show that Mr S had failed to meet its terms  and conditions  for a refund, by not 
returning the empty box as requested. The information received from the supplier was 
sufficient for NewDay to believe that the chargeback wouldnt be successful, so under the 
terms of the scheme  it didnt need to pursue the chargeback further.  So, I dont think 
NewDay made a mistake by reversing  the chargeback.
Ref: DRN98864992NewDay also considered  whether Mr S had a valid Section  75 claim under the CCA 1974. 
Section 75 allows a customer to claim from their credit card company, a refund of money 
paid to a supplier in specific  circumstances. There needs to be enough evidence to show  the 
supplier;
said something about the goods/services  being  sold that wasnt true; and this made 
the customer enter the contract  (misrepresentation); or
had broken the terms of the contract.
My role isnt to decide whether  Section  75 applies here. Rather  I need  to think  about  whether 
NewDay made a mistake in the way it considered Mr S Section 75 claim.  As there  is nothing  
to suggest a misrepresentation took place, Ive considered a breach of contract.
If a supplier fails to deliver an item paid for by customer, then this would be a breach of 
contract. 
Mr S ordered a watch to be delivered to a local collection  point, but he says he only received 
an empty  box. In an online  chat with Mr S the supplier says Im afraid after the investigation 
it was showing that the order was delivered with the correct  weight of the item inside.  
This service and Mr S have requested evidence from the supplier to confirm the weight of 
the parcel at delivery. The supplier hasnt provided this.
Mr S says that it was wrong for NewDay to rely on what the supplier had said, as it had not 
provided any proof to confirm the parcel  was at the correct weight when it was delivered. 
However, I dont think the fact that this evidence  is missing should mean Mr S complaint 
should succeed. Where  evidence  is missing,  like it is here,  we make a decision based on 
what we think is most  likely to have happened, taking all the surrounding circumstances into 
account. 
Mr S says he received  an empty box and I dont disbelieve  him; on the other hand the 
supplier says that the parcel was the correct weight when it was delivered to the collection 
point, equally I have  no reason to doubt this. 
From the information we do have, I think it is more likely than not, that the watch  went 
missing after it was delivered to the collection point, as the supplier  has confirmed the parcel  
was the correct weight at the point of delivery.  Mr S opted for his parcel to be delivered to a 
collection point, so in accordance with its terms and conditions it was responsible for 
delivering the parcel there, so I cant  fairly  say the supplier was responsible  for what may 
have happened  after it was delivered  to the collection point.
I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed  with my decision, but I dont think  there is enough 
evidence to show that there has been  a breach of contract by the supplier, so I dont  think  
NewDay did anything wrong in handling  his Section  75 claim.  The supplier previously offered 
to review Mr S refund if he reported  the matter to the police,  I now leave it to Mr S to decide  
if he now wishes to contact the supplier to see if this offer is still available.
NewDay accepts that in a call in June 2018  Mr S was given incorrect  information about  why 
the chargeback  credit  had been reversed.  It also agreed that Mr S hadnt received the 
standard of customer service he should  have expected. It apologised and paid Mr S £50 in 
Ref: DRN98864993recognition of this; in the circumstances I think this is fair and I dont think it needs to do 
anything else.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9886499