K820x#14Complaint
Miss M is unhappy with Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) because it 
decided to terminate  her claim under her employers group income protection  policy.
Background
Miss M was employed by Z and was a member of its group income protection insurance 
policy - L&G is the insurer. The policy would pay benefit after a waiting period of 26 weeks if 
Miss M was unable to perform her occupation because  of illness or injury.
Miss M was first absent from work in March 2015  due to the sudden  bereavement  of her 
father. She suffered from depression and grief and was unable to work. Her GP arranged 
bereavement counselling sessions.
In September  2015, Miss Ms claim for incapacity benefit was accepted  by L&G and it 
confirmed the benefit will continue as long as the terms  of the policy  were being  met. She 
was also referred for Cognitive Behavioural  Therapy (CBT)  in September 2015 as the 
bereavement counselling hadnt been effective.  
In April 2017, Miss Ms health  showed improvement and she expressed  a desire to return  to 
work. This was supported  by Miss Ms GP and was also considered by an occupational 
health advisor who provided  a report to L&G. This recommended Miss M to attempt a 
phased return on part-time hours. The report acknowledged Miss M still had symptoms  of 
underlying depression, with a disturbed sleep pattern and fatigue. It concluded she is 
unlikely to be able to cope with her previous profession as a financial advisor,  but suggested 
she take an administrative role like back office  support.
However, Z couldnt find her a role of that nature and made L&G aware  of this. At this point,  
L&G decided to stop paying  her the benefit.  It said in order  for payments to continue,  she 
must be incapacitated  by illness or injury from carrying out her own, or any occupation to 
which she is suited by reason of training,  education  and experience. The occupational health 
report said Miss M could carry out administrative duties so the last benefit payment was 
made to her on 1 September  2017.
Miss M made a complaint  to L&G. It reviewed her complaint but didnt agree that the benefit 
should continue. It said Miss M met with occupational health and it was considered that she 
had sufficiently recovered and ready to consider a return to work.  It said while the GP 
indicated Miss M was experiencing some  ongoing  symptoms it hadnt identified  any specific  
medical barriers preventing her from returning  to a suited occupation.  L&G  was assessing 
Miss Ms claim under  the suited occupation definition  - where an individual had to be 
incapacitated by illness or injury from carrying out their own, or any occupation to which  they 
are suited by reason  of training, education and experience.  So even after further review, 
L&G didnt change  its decision. It said there  was no new evidence suggesting why Miss M 
wouldnt have been able to perform the essential duties of her own or any other  occupation 
for which she was reasonably suited.
Miss M referred  the complaint to our service.  Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
upheld it at first as he thought Miss M hadnt been treated fairly. L&G didnt agree and 
reiterated its reasons  for ceasing the benefit for Miss M. It stated:
The policy terms and conditions hadnt  been understood by us;
Ref: DRN96230922The GP and the occupational health advisor  who are the medical practitioners 
involved in her care thought she was fit to return to an administrative role as 
evidenced in their medical reports;
A suited  occupation  doesnt mean  an identical match to the role she 
previously did. In this particular case, the individual and all the practitioners 
involved in her care were happy  that if the right administrative role was 
operationally feasible for the business  then she would be suited to return  to it;
The fact a role isnt available should  have no bearing on the decision; and
Miss M reported in the occupational report of April 2017 she was still hoping  
to return to work on part-time hours and in an administrative  capacity but had 
heard nothing from HR or her line manager.
Our investigator reviewed  the further  comments  by L&G and issued a further assessment. 
He didnt uphold  the complaint and said he thought L&G had acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions and hadnt treated Miss M unfairly. He said the evidence  from the GP 
showed that Miss M was ready to return to a role on a part-time basis  and carry out 
administrative tasks. While another GP has more recently said they hadnt indicated  she was 
ready to return to work, there  was also the occupational health report which also stated 
Miss M was ready to return to work on a part-time basis in an administrative role. As such, 
the investigator said he thought L&G was right to stop the benefit in August 2017.
Miss M disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. The complaint has 
therefore been passed to me. She says:
Shes the victim of ill health,  struggling financially and is being unfairly treated as it 
looks like L&G doesnt want to assist;  and
This is all making her feel more depressed as all she wanted to do was attempt to get 
out of the house  but it was against  her GPs advice.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide  is whether or not L&G acted fairly by terminating  Miss Ms 
claim when  it did and also whether or not Miss M was unable to perform an occupation to 
which she was suited  at the time the decision was made to stop the benefit.   
Ive started by looking at the relevant terms and conditions of the policy and particularly, 
what it says about  suited occupation: 
Suited occupation means  the insured  member is incapacitated by a specific, 
diagnosed illness or injury  so that he is unable to undertake any occupation which  we 
consider appropriate to his experience, training  or education. 
For the purposes of this definition an occupation  will not be considered to be 
inappropriate to an insured member's experience, training or education on the 
grounds that: 
(i) the pay from such  occupation may be lower  than that paid to the insured 
member prior to the deferred period in relation  to his own job or lower  than 
the amount of member's benefit, or 
Ref: DRN96230923(ii) such occupation lacks  the status or seniority  associated with the insured  
member's own job. 
Having looked  at this, Im satisfied that the term has been applied correctly  by L&G, Ill 
explain why. 
The benefit  payment started  from September 2015.  When L&G requested medical reports,  
Miss Ms GP provided a letter dated 24 August  2016 which said her symptoms  had improved 
significantly and also that she will need a re-introduction  to work on a part-time basis to start 
with. However, at this point, Miss M had an outstanding eye operation and, because of this, 
the review to stop her benefit was deferred  until such  time that shed recovered  from the 
operation. 
An occupational health assessment and a rehabilitation  report were both done in April 2017. 
Both of the reports confirmed that Miss Ms health had improved and she was ready to return 
to work, in the capacity of a phased  return,  doing  part-time hours and in an administrative  
role. Based on the GP letter and two subsequent  reports, L&G decided to stop Miss Ms 
benefit and said in order that Miss M had sufficient  time to find a suitable role, it would pay 
three months full benefit up to 31 August 2017  and confirmed  the last payment would be 
1 September 2017. 
I think L&G did what we would expect  in the circumstances  of the complaint. While  it decided 
in April 2017 that it would stop the benefit, it gave a further three months for Miss M to find a 
suitable role. It also considered all the medical  reports available  before making the decision.
Miss M had further occupational health  appointments  since April 2017  and the latest one -  
dated 3 October  2017 -  states that while she was troubled  with low mood and continued  to 
have difficulty in getting to sleep, she appeared to be taking a very positive approach to 
moving forward for the future. It also says: she has been in contact with her employer this 
week to discuss a possible start of a return to work  in about two months  timeshe would 
be helped by having a phased return. It is also likely that she would be helped  by not initially 
returning to her usual  role. She would have  skills to be able to carry appropriate 
administrative or non-client facing work initially.
The report  continues and says: there is hope  that Miss M will be able to make  a successful 
start of a return to work
I have carefully considered Miss Ms comments that she was never fit to return to work and 
looked at the evidence  we have regarding this. I refer to the GP letter of January 2018  which  
says Miss M has been incapacitated since  March  2015 with symptoms  of anxiety and 
depression, then skin rashes and irritation under dermatology, then vertigo, then cataract 
surgery and now raised BP. The GP goes on to say that she has at no time felt Miss M has 
been fit to return  to her job and given her ongoing symptoms,  she was also unsuited for 
alternative work training. In the same note from the GP, it says that Miss M had a fit note 
(against the GPs advice) from March 2017  to July 2017 to try to do some  part-time work to 
see if she could manage any work  as she was keen to be rehabilitated and her employer (Z) 
declined that suggestion. 
I appreciate Miss M thinks that because of this latest  note from her GP in January 2018, 
L&G should  now re-instate the benefit. However, Im not persuaded this should be the case  
here. This is because, on balance, the GP letter of August 2016,  the rehabilitation report  and 
Ref: DRN96230924the occupational report of April 2017, I think, outweigh the GP letter of January 2018. This 
particular letter is inconsistent with all of the other information we have on file and, based  on 
what we do have available, and the decision L&G took to stop the benefit  in April 2017,  Im 
satisfied the policy terms and conditions have been  applied fairly and reasonably. 
While I have sympathy with Miss Ms situation and have considered  the other symptoms she 
was having, I dont think they would  have impacted as heavily on her phased return  to work 
as these were sporadic  and she wasnt experiencing these  on an ongoing basis.  So, 
importantly, while I appreciate that she was going through a difficult  time, its not enough for 
me to say she would  have  been  incapacitated   especially as Ive taken into account what 
the medical professionals have said. So, in other words, I think  she still would have been 
able to return to work  on a phased and part-time basis had her employer  been  able to 
accommodate this from April 2017. Also the fact that Miss M hasnt been able to find an 
alternative role doesnt mean that L&G should be made responsible for this either. This is a 
matter between Miss M and Z to work through. 
Overall, it was identified in April 2017 that Miss M was ready  to return  work on a part-time  
capacity. I think, in the circumstances  of this case, its fair and reasonable for L&G to have 
stopped the benefit  and made the last payment on 1 September 2017. I also dont think 
Miss M was unable to undertake a suitable occupation at the time the decision was taken by 
L&G to stop the benefit. As such,  I dont think L&G needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint against Legal  and 
General Assurance  Society Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9623092