K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1985. The policy  was taken out 
when Mr S was applying for a mortgage.  The policy provided Mr S with cover for accident,  
sickness and unemployment.
The policy wasnt sold by Nationwide but by a different  building  society. Nationwide has 
taken responsibility  for the sale, and to keep  things simple, Ill refer only to Nationwide  in this 
decision.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision  on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely  
to have happened.
Mr Ss main concern is that he wasnt made aware  that he had a choice about buying the 
PPI. He says he had generous work  benefits  and savings and didnt need the policy. 
Nationwide doesnt  have much paperwork for either  the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt 
surprising given the sale took place  about 35 years ago and the mortgage  ended in 1995.  I 
wouldnt expect either Mr S or Nationwide to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what  this service knows about how Nationwide sold PPI at the time, its likely Mr S was 
given a choice  about buying  the PPI. Ive seen a sample document  from about the same 
time and theres  no suggestion the PPI was compulsory. That fits with what we know  about 
how these policies were  sold. I think it unlikely Mr S was treated differently from other 
customers, so its likely he completed a similar  form.
Overall, I think Nationwide most likely gave Mr S enough information for him to know  he had 
the PPI, and that it was optional, even though I do understand why hes forgotten this over 
the years.
The bank doesnt think it recommended the policy to Mr S  because it didnt sell these 
policies on and advised  basis  in its normal dealings with customers. Even if it had advised 
Ref: DRN96314702Mr S to take out the policy, it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for him based  on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time.  I say this because:
-Mr S was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.  
-Mr S told us he had good  work related benefits and some savings. But policies  like this 
would have paid out in addition  to any occupational  benefits.  Having  the policy in place 
would mean Mr S could  use his work-related benefits and savings to pay for other 
expenses. A mortgage is a big commitment so I think Mr S would have had some use for 
the policy despite his existing arrangements. 
-Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Mr S 
needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-I dont know when  Mr S was told what the policy  would cost. But its likely he knew  it cost 
something. We dont know the exact cost  but from the hundreds of sales  this service 
has looked at its likely  the policy was affordable and relatively low cost.  The PPI 
application set out the monthly  benefit  that would  be paid if a successful claim was 
made. 
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already  said I dont think Mr S was affected by any of the exclusions  or 
limitations and the policy  is likely to have been  affordable, I think it unlikely Mr S would have 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided   overall, I think  he would 
still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9631470