K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms G are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their health insurance  with 
BUPA Insurance Limited.
background
Mr G took out his policy with BUPA in 1997.  It covered him worldwide (excluding the United 
States of America) for medical  treatment  and evacuation. Ms G was added to the policy  in 
2002, with their children  added in 2005 and 2008. In 2007,  the policy cost £4,679. In 2008  it 
cost £6,174. By 2018 it cost £20,092.  At this point Mr G complained  about the price  
increases over the years. Since we were  asked to consider  this complaint, the price 
increased again at the 2019 renewal. Mr and Ms G needed this type of policy  as they dont 
live in the UK.
Mr G feels that BUPA  is taking advantage of the fact that it is difficult to move  insurers  due to 
existing health  conditions. Many insurers would exclude these  conditions,  meaning treatment 
for them wouldnt be covered if he took a new policy elsewhere. Mr G says this distorts the 
marked and allows BUPA to act like a monopoly, setting prices that customers  have no 
choice but to pay. 
Mr G thinks his premiums  shouldve  increased  at an amount  not much  more than the 
Consumer Prices Index  (CPI), a measure  that examines the weighted average of prices of a 
basket of consumer goods and services.
BUPA said it sets the price of the policy based  on the customers age, their country of 
residence, and global  healthcare prices  (taking into account the geographical scope of the 
policy). 
BUPA said the price  doesnt take into account an individuals claims history, so they arent 
penalised for having to seek treatment or discouraged from claiming. And that 
Mr and Ms Gs policy has benefitted from a 10% discount on the premium every year since 
2007  a discount that will apply  as long as the policy continues.  
When responding to the complaint BUPA confirmed that no further discount was possible. 
But it offered  a choice  of complimentary tops-ups on the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think BUPA  had treated Mr and Ms G unfairly. Mr and Ms G 
disagreed, so Ive been asked to make  a decision. 
my findings
Before I set out my findings, Id like to say that I am sorry it has taken us so long to deal with 
Mr and Ms Gs complaint. I know that has been  frustrating for them. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. Nor do I have the power  to review  or make  changes to how the insurance 
market works. Our service was set up to resolve  individual complaints and we dont regulate 
Ref: DRN97577062the insurance industry. If Mr and Ms G have wider  concerns with how the medical insurance 
industry operates, they can contact the regulator   the Financial Conduct  Authority.
My powers are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP)  section of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook,  which  can be viewed online.  This says that I must determine this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  
of this case. In doing so I will take into account relevant law, regulations, regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, codes of practice; and (where  appropriate) what  I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case, Im looking at whether  BUPA has treated Mr and Ms G fairly, from 2007  
onwards, when setting  the price of their health insurance policy.  If, once  Id considered  all of 
the evidence and arguments,  I thought BUPA hadnt  treated Mr and Ms G fairly Id tell it to 
do something to put that right. For example, if I thought BUPA  had increased the premium  
prices every  year simply because of the time Mr and Ms G held their policy and for no risk 
related reason, Id likely say that wasnt fair.
Insurers generally set premiums based  on their assessment of the risk being covered. When  
the perceived risk increases, so will the premium.  Theres  nothing wrong with that, so BUPA 
hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by simply increasing the premium   even where the 
increases are large. 
This isnt a case where Mr G wasnt engaging with the renewals  process or the price that 
was being charged. In 2007,  the lifetime 10% discount came about following a discussion of 
the increase in price. And Mr G discussed the price  of the policy,  specifically how much  it 
was increasing, in 2009, 2013, 2017 and 2018 (when he made this complaint). So, this isnt 
a case where an insurer  is taking advantage of a disengaged consumer by charging them 
more every year. 
Ive looked at the evidence of why BUPA set the prices it did, in order  to make a decision on 
whether Mr and Ms G have been  treated unfairly.  Having done so, Im satisfied that BUPA 
set the price each year by considering Mr and Ms Gs age, and that of their children, their 
country of residence, global healthcare prices (taking into account  the geographical  scope of 
the policy), and BUPAs  assessment of how much it expected to pay out in claims for the 
pool of customers it was insuring.  This is assessed  twice a year with prices updated for each 
customer at their annual renewal. I dont think that is unfair or unreasonable. 
I dont think CPI is a more  relevant or appropriate  consideration than the factors  BUPA  takes 
into account or that BUPA should  use CPI as a benchmark. The CPI is based on the cost of 
a number of goods within the UK, but over the years the cost of medical treatment has 
increased above the CPI average. And the CPI data is based  on prices within the UK, but 
that doesnt reflect the cost of BUPA paying for treatment overseas, which  is what  this policy 
is set up to cover. 
I can understand Mr and Ms Gs desire  to keep  their costs down, and that the price they pay 
for their insurance has gone up a lot over the years. But, based on the evidence,  I dont think 
that BUPA has treated  them unfairly when setting the price of their policy.  
Ref: DRN97577063My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9757706