K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs G have  complained to Vitality Health Limited  (Vitality) about  the premium  
increases theyve paid annually on their Vitality  Personal Healthcare plan. They dont think 
Vitalitys offer is a fair way to resolve their complaint.
Background
Mr and Mrs G took out a Vitality Personal Healthcare plan through a broker in April 2012. 
The total annual  premium paid was £1,244.28. 
Over the years a number of claims were submitted on the policy  and the total premium 
increased. Mrs G felt the premium  was increasing alarmingly fast, so in 2018 when the 
premium offered at renewal was £6,039.12, she spoke  to her broker.
The broker  couldnt help,  so Mrs G approached Vitality directly. And Vitality gave her a 
breakdown of how the policy was priced between herself and Mr G. Vitality  also told Mrs G 
that the claims performance on a joint plan is shared,  which  means that if one member 
makes a claim, that claim will impact the premium as a whole.  Mrs G says she was never 
told that this was how the policy worked,  and she felt that she was being penalised as a 
healthy customer.
So, Mrs G asked Vitality  to split the policy. But Vitality said its practice was to only separate 
a joint policy  on the separation of the policy holders or if one of them passed away. It said 
this was its standard practice. Vitality did say that Mrs G could have  a new separate  policy  
but only if she took a six-month break, but she might not then be covered for any medical 
conditions that shed  had before taking out the new policy. Mr G would remain on the old 
policy on a slightly reduced price.  It said that in the event of a separation or death, the 
premium for the remaining party would  be based on their share of the joint premium. But 
premiums might be different if a new policy was offered after a six-month  break. In other  
words, its practice was that customers who agreed to take out a joint policy could  benefit  
from that, but it wouldnt later separate them  out if one party  thought  they could get a 
cheaper price if Vitality looked at their risks separately. 
But Mrs G was unhappy  with these  options  and she complained.  And as a gesture of 
goodwill Vitality  agreed to remove Mrs G from the joint policy. Mr G remained on the old 
policy, whilst  Mrs G was given a new separate cover, to begin immediately with a new two-
year moratorium in place.  Here, the moratorium meant Mrs G didnt have to give details of 
her medical history. But Vitality  wouldnt pay claims for the treatment of any medical  
condition, that existed  in the five years before the cover start date (a pre-existing medical  
condition). But after two years of continuous  insurance cover from the cover  start date, all 
pre-existing medical conditions will become eligible for benefit,  subject to the terms and 
conditions of the plan. So, this meant Mrs G could  take a new policy without having  to wait 
six months.
At this point Mrs G saw her premium  fall significantly. Mr G also saw a small  reduction in his 
proportion of the premium, which Vitality said was mainly  due to a reduction  in hospital 
options. So, Mrs G questioned why there was such a disparity  in price, and she asked for a 
refund of the premiums she felt shed been  overcharged since  2012.
Vitality said Mrs G hadnt been overcharged.  It explained that the joint plan was exactly that, 
a joint plan. And both the claims submitted, and loyalty benefits enjoyed  on the plan were 
Ref: DRN99775892shared across each member of the plan. Vitality said that the new policy was a completely 
new policy, which included a moratorium and slightly reduced benefits as a single member. 
And because of this, it was cheaper, as with the moratorium in place meant  Mrs G was a 
lesser risk.    
But Mrs G remained unhappy so she complained to us. The investigator  who looked into this 
agreed with Mrs G and upheld the complaint. But Vitality disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
First provisional decision 
In March 2020 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. And because of what  Id 
seen at that time I upheld this complaint in part. I broke the provisional decision down into 
four parts. And this is a summary  of each part:
The price
Having reviewed the annual  premium each year Mr and Mrs G had the policy,  it didnt look to 
me like any errors had been made.
The policy
The policy may not have  worked as Mrs G expected  it to. But the way it worked  was never  
hidden from Mr and Mrs G. This was set out clearly in the policy  terms and conditions.  And it 
looked like having two people on the policy was more beneficial at the time it was sold to 
them. Unfortunately, the way things worked  out it may be that over time Mr and Mrs G could 
have got similar cover  for less, but that is only based on hindsight. During the sale it was up 
to the broker who sold the policy to make sure the consumers were clear on how it worked. 
All Vitality did was provide a product. So, I didnt agree  that Vitality  did anything wrong here.
Premium differences, old vs new
Insurers are entitled to form their own view on risk, and theyre entitled to cost this risk 
accordingly. And as long as this is made clear from the outset, I think  this is fair. I noted that 
Mrs G thought the way Vitality worked out risk was unfair. But I also explained that Vitality 
changed how it calculated its premiums during the time Mr and Mrs G held the policy.  And 
even though  Vitality has now put in place a different way of rating its consumers, it doesnt 
follow that the previous method was incorrect. Insurers  will typically,  over the years, revisit 
and reassess the risk  using more up to date and refined models.  And it just so happens 
that the newer model produced a lower premium cost for Mr and Mrs G given their 
circumstances. So even though Mrs G had gone  to a lot of effort to set out why she felt she 
was overcharged, I couldnt say that she was. The policy  was correctly  priced at the time 
according to the risk Vitality felt it was covering, and I couldnt  see any errors in how the 
premium was calculated. So, I didnt think  anything had gone  wrong with the way the policy 
price had been worked out.
Moratorium
Vitalitys previous moratorium excluded  any medical conditions  Mrs G had experienced 
during the five years  before the joint cover started  on 1 April 2012.  Mrs G had only made one 
small claim since then of which Vitality is aware.  So, on balance, I didnt think it was fair she 
had to start a new moratorium  when she moved  to the individual  plan. Vitality  were  aware of 
Ref: DRN99775893her previous  history  and under the circumstances  I thought it would be fair and reasonable 
for Vitality to reapply  the original moratorium date for the five years prior to 2012  to Mrs Gs 
new plan.
Second provisional decision  
Both parties provided submissions in response to the first provisional decision.  So, I 
reviewed the complete file again and on 5 June  2020 I issued a second provisional decision 
but with a different outcome. I broke this provisional decision down into six parts,  and I said 
that based  on what Id seen I wouldnt be upholding this complaint. The six parts are as 
follows:
Premiums paid so far
Vitality sent us details of all the claims made on this policy,  and details of points earned  on 
the policy over its lifetime. Vitality also sent us a breakdown  of the annual increases 
sustained on this policy. I had explained  in my first provisional decision that Vitalitys  
underwriting criteria was commercially sensitive and cannot be shared. But I checked each 
years premium against the number of claims made and confirmed that I was satisfied that 
the correct percentage  increases have been  applied at each renewal, and no errors had 
been made. In other words, the policy increased alongside Vitalitys assessment of risk.
How does the joint policy work?
If a policy  has two people on cover and only one is claiming,  they will both be impacted by 
the claims  as this pricing factor is at a policy level, rather than at an individual  level.  This is 
also the same with the benefits earned across the policy. And this was set out in the policy 
terms and conditions. This policy was sold to Mr and Mrs G by a broker,  whose role was to 
explain to a consumer how the policy worked.  So, I was satisfied that Vitality  worked out the 
premiums in the way it said it would  and hadnt  acted unfairly in the circumstances.
What happened  when Mrs G complained
The reason why Mrs Gs premium reduced  was because she moved to a new policy,  which  
had an increased moratorium  of two years.  Vitality explained that implementing a policy  with 
a moratorium reduces  its exposure  to a claim, so its cheaper to insure the person on this 
policy as the consumer  is less likely  to claim.  Vitality said again that if it had allowed Mrs G 
to continue  on the same cover as before, which was a better cover  without a moratorium,  
she wouldnt  have seen  any reduction in her premium.
Allowing Mrs G to have an alternative policy without  a six-month break is something Vitality 
wouldnt normally allow. And it only agreed  to do so in this instance  because Mrs G had a 
good claim  record and was considered a loyal customer. The only way Vitality could give 
Mrs G what she wanted under its own underwriting criteria was to allow her the alternative 
policy with a moratorium. And I thought what Vitality had done here was fair.
Is a joint policy cheaper than having two single policies?
At the point of sale, the joint policy with a family status pricing  factor  and a discount was the 
cheaper option. But after this point the price was determined by a number  of different 
factors. All members benefited from the points and status earned by each other, just as all 
members of the policy were impacted by the number of claims made  as a whole.
Ref: DRN99775894I didnt think Vitality specifically said a joint policy will always  be cheaper.  I appreciated this 
was how Mrs G interpreted what Vitality said in its response to their complaint. But I didnt 
think that was what was meant in their reply. Its not possible for an insurer to guarantee that 
a policy  will always be the cheapest. And even though I thought in its final response letter 
this couldve been made clearer, I was satisfied  that Vitality  didnt say it would always  be 
cheaper. 
Separating policies
I didnt think  it was correct that Vitality refused to separate  the policy. Mrs G was given the 
option to leave  the policy and take out a new policy after a six-month  waiting period. So, she 
was given the same option as everyone  else in her situation. But Mrs G didnt want to accept 
this so Vitality sold her a policy with a moratorium as a gesture of goodwill.
And I thought that was fair. We knew that if Mrs G had been  given a separate policy to Mr G 
under the same terms and conditions,  with a continuation of the cover  she was previously 
on, she wouldve been paying the same price as she was already paying for her portion on 
the joint policy. And looking at what Vitality  said about  starting a new policy,  if I thought  
Vitality were  doing something wrong  by charging the same, or by imposing  six-month 
restrictions before a new policy was issued, that wouldnt be fair. But in this instance Vitality  
bypassed the need for a six-month waiting period and its sold Mrs G a new policy  with a two-
year moratorium instead. This allowed Mrs G to have a separate  policy,  at a cheaper  price.  
Which is what Mrs G wanted.
Moratorium
In my original provisional decision,  I said that I didnt think  it was fair that Mrs G had to start a 
new moratorium when  she moved to the individual plan. I said that Vitality  should reapply the 
original moratorium date for the five years prior to 2012 to Mrs Gs new plan.
But Vitality  didnt think this was fair. Vitality said that continued underwriting terms where  no 
moratorium is in place would be reflected  in higher  premiums because the risk of Mrs G 
making a claim  is higher.  Vitality said it already gave a concession in allowing Mrs G a new 
individual plan and not implementing  its usual six-month rule. Vitality say its now receiving a 
lower premium to cover  the same person, and it shouldnt be further penalised financially for 
offering this concession.
I considered this argument and I agreed with Vitality. Mrs G felt her premium  was increasing  
at an unreasonable rate and she complained. Vitality explained  what it could  do under its 
underwriting rules, but as a gesture of goodwill  its allowed Mrs G a new policy,  with different 
underwriting which worked out cheaper.  But this was due to the moratorium.  And after 
considering all of the evidence and arguments  again,  I didnt think  it would be fair to 
recommend that Vitality scrap the moratorium on this policy after it had already not applied  
its six-month rule. So, I thought Vitality had treated Mr and Mrs G fairly and I didnt think it 
needed to do anything further.
Final decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having  done so, I dont plan to 
uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN99775895Both parties  have confirmed theyve received my provisional decisions. 
Vitality has responded and said it has nothing further to add. Mrs G has also responded with 
a number of detailed submissions. Again, Id like to reassure Mrs G that Ive listened to 
everything shes said and read everything  shes submitted. I wont  go through every point 
raised, but I have dealt  with the points I think are most relevant to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
In summary  Mrs G says:
Mrs G wants to know why I said that her new cover is less comprehensive than her 
old cover.  She says I stated she now has access to fewer hospitals and that her 
cover has reduced.  Mrs G has provided  evidence from the broker and argues that 
this isnt true.
Mrs G has asked me to provide an example outside of point of sale or when no 
claims are made, where a joint policy  could ever be cheaper than two single policies. 
Mrs G says its impossible for anyone to benefit from lower joint policy  premiums, and 
that I failed to address  this. Mrs G has offered to provide her own calculations  of the 
premium.
Hospital cover on the new policy
Mrs G wants to know why I said that her new policy has less hospital cover than the old one. 
Vitality has told us that Mr G saw a small reduction in his proportion of the premium,  after 
Mrs G was taken off the joint policy, which was mainly due to a small discount being applied 
in 2018  and a reduction  in hospital  options.  In my provisional decisions I didnt comment  on 
the hospital cover available to Mrs G on the new policy. Im sorry if there was any confusion 
caused, but for the avoidance of doubt I dont  think there is a reduction of available hospitals 
for Mrs G.
What Vitality say about the joint policy
Mrs G has made some  very strong  arguments throughout this whole complaint about what  
Vitality say about the cost of the joint policy. Ive dealt  with this extensively in both 
provisional decisions. But Mrs G still feels Im not addressing her argument. Mrs G 
specifically wants me to give her an example outside of point of sale or when  no claims are 
made, where  a joint policy  could ever be cheaper  than two single policies.  Mrs G says its 
impossible for anyone to benefit from lower joint policy  premiums.  
As a service we are here to deal with individual complaints.  Its my role to make sure that 
Mr and Mrs G have been treated  fairly and that nothing has gone wrong with the price 
theyve been  charged for this policy. But Im unable  to provide  Mrs G with an example of 
what she wants,  because its simply not something I would  have access to. And in any 
event, an example such as this wouldnt have any bearing on the specific complaint 
Mr and Mrs G have  made, as the circumstances that drive the price of their policy are unique 
to themselves, and themselves only. Once  a policy is sold, nobody  knows what journey that 
policy and premium will take. So, its impossible to predict  exactly  what premium will be 
charged, no matter  which policy is chosen  as the policy progresses  over the years.  
Ref: DRN99775896I completely understand  Mrs Gs argument  and what  she believes Vitality told her. Mrs G is 
adamant that Vitality clearly say in its final response a couple  on the same plan will have a 
lower premium than two individual members  on their own plans.
But even though thats what the words  in the letter say I think  the rest of the letter  needs  to 
be read to put those  words in context. 
The letter says:
I can see that you initially contacted us on 15 March 2019 regarding  a possible separate  
plan for yourself,  and apologise for the delay in our response.
I would  like to clarify our pricing  and increase policy, and explain the criteria in which we 
would consider a continuation quote.
We price each plan based on the people covered,  the benefits  chosen  on the plan and the 
address to which the plan is registered.
To clarify,  a couple on the same plan will have a lower premium  than two individual 
members on their own plans.
In this letter Vitality  was setting out its approach  to a continuation quote. It confirmed that a 
couple on the same  plan will have a lower  premium  than two individuals on their own plans, 
in the event of a continuation situation (where both parties separate  but stay on the same 
cover). Vitality are not saying here that a joint cover will always be cheaper.  Vitality  are 
specifically talking about what happens  in the event of a continuation quote.
I do think  this final response letter couldve been made clearer.  But Im satisfied that Vitality  
didnt say the joint policy will always be cheaper. I think Vitality are explaining a very specific  
situation, one which didnt apply to Mr and Mrs G, and that is when a couple  separate  and 
they require a continuation quote,  and nothing  else. So, I cant agree that Vitality  ever meant  
that a joint policy will always be cheaper than two single policies, as Mrs G read it. 
So, to conclude., having reviewed this file as a whole again and having  read and answered 
the replies from Mrs G, Im satisfied  that Mr and Mrs G have been treated fairly and havent  
been overcharged. And I can see no reason to overturn what Ive said in my second 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is not to uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2020.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9977589