K821x#15complaint
Mr F is the director  of a limited company that Ill refer to as C. Hes complained  on Cs behalf
that Highway Insurance  Company Limited unfairly  turned down a claim on Cs motor  trade
combined insurance policy.
Mr F is represented  in this complaint by his broker. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to all
comments and actions  as being those of Mr F or C.
background
C operates a used  car sales business  and Mr Fs said its usual  for them  to sell multiple  cars
to traders. Mr F said they sold six cars to a trader but later found theyd been the victim of a
credit card fraud. They  claimed  on their policy for losses  associated with this theft, including
fees to recover some  vehicles and the total loss of others.
Highway accepted the claim  for two of the vehicles but turned the rest down.  They said the 
policy doesnt cover  vehicles stolen through credit  card fraud, unless its reported to Highway 
within 14 days.
Mr F didnt  think  this was fair and brought his complaint to us. He said hed told Highway
about the theft within a few days of finding out about it. He said he couldnt have reported it
within 14 days as he didnt know about it until the payment  had been  withdrawn.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 February  2020  where  I explained 
what Highway needed to do to put things right. In that decision I said:
The terms and conditions  of Cs policy  say that it [Highway] provides cover for fraud or false  
pretence, unless  its as a result of a card transaction where the payment is authorised and
subsequently withdrawn,  and the theft is reported within  14 days of the transaction.
Mr Fs explained  that they sold six vehicles between 8 August 2018 and 22 August 2018. He
said they became  aware of the fraudulent transactions between  23 August 2018 and
10 September 2018 and reported  it to Highway on 13 September  2018. Highway said its
covered the two claims that were  reported  within 14 days but turned down the others as the
policy doesnt cover  them.
In turning down  the claims,  I dont think Highway has acted fairly or reasonably. Thats
because Id only think it was fair and reasonable for Highway to turn down the claim if it
could show that its position has been prejudiced.  Ive asked Highway to show  how reporting
the claim outside of the 14 days makes a difference.
Highway said the 14 day period relates to monetary  losses which  it would expect the insured
to discover quickly. It said businesses should be able to spot something  like this within the
specified period.  Highway  also said it would  need  to be able to act quickly  if it were  to try and
recover any money. However, in this case Im satisfied C wasnt aware within  14 days.  And I
havent seen anything to persuade me that in this particular case Highway would  have been
able to do anything  differently if C had reported  it sooner.  Because  of this Im not satisfied
Highway is applying the term in a fair and reasonable way in this case.
I think the fair and reasonable  outcome to this particular complaint is for Highway to pay the
claim for the four vehicles  it turned down. As C have been  without money  they should have
Ref: DRN96689882had Highway should add interest  to the settlement amount at 8% simple per year. For claims
where the settlement is reimbursement of fees or charges, that C has paid, the interest  will
need to be calculated from the date C paid until the date Highway makes payment.  For total
loss claims the interest should be calculated from the date of the theft to the date Highway
makes payment.
I understand C took out an additional  overdraft to enable them to keep trading. But it seems
this was for more than the amount Highway should have paid them for their claim. So, I dont
intend to make any additional  award for any fees the overdraft incurred. Also,  as Im
instructing Highway to pay interest  on any settlement to compensate him for not having the
money, it wouldnt be fair to tell them to compensate him twice.
Mr F accepted my provisional decision and Highway didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr F accepted my findings  and Highway didnt respond I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and require Highway Insurance Company Limited to:
pay Cs claims in line with the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy;
for the total loss claims add interest  at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
the theft to the date it makes payment1; and 
add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date C paid the fees to recover 
the vehicles to the date it makes payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F, on behalf of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
1 If Highway Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell C how much  its taken  off. It should also give C a certificate showing 
this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9668988