K821x#15complaint
Mr M said Insurance Factory Ltd mis-sold a single motor insurance  policy  to him instead of 
the multi-car policy he wanted and didnt give him a full refund when he cancelled the policy.      
background
Mr M told us that when he contacted Insurance Factory for a policy for his new classic car, 
he wanted a multi-car policy as he already had one classic car insured through  it. He said 
the advisor told him it didnt offer multi-car policies, although its website stated that it did. 
Later on Mr M bought  a third classic car. He said Insurance Factory offered him a multi-car 
policy, but only for that car and the first car hed insured  through  it. Mr M also said that when 
he cancelled  the policy for the second  car the refund he got wasnt enough. He said he was 
told hed only get a nominal refund  if he complained to this service.
Insurance Factory  said Mr M hadnt asked for a multi-car policy when he insured the second 
car. But he mentioned  it when insuring the third car. He was told hed have to cancel the first 
two policies in order for all the cars to be on one policy, as they were  with different insurers 
from Insurance Factorys  panel. Mr M was then given a quote for two of his cars on one 
policy. Insurance Factory  found that it was cheaper to insure the second car on a single 
policy. Mr M said hed been offered a cheaper  multi-car  policy for all three cars elsewhere.  
The first cars policy was due to expire,  so Mr M cancelled  the second  cars policy.  
Insurance Factory  said a refund of £30.62  was due. It said it would  waive its £50 cancellation 
charge as a gesture of goodwill, so it paid Mr M £80.62. Mr M said that wasnt enough, but 
Insurance Factory  disagreed.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think Insurance Factory had 
acted unreasonably in setting up the policy for the second car, as Mr M was happy to accept 
a single policy at the time.  In terms of the refund, the investigator  noted that Mr M had been 
charged short-term rates  for the second policy. That meant he was charged more than just 
for the time he had on cover. The investigator  said as the short-terms rates werent 
explained to Mr M when he bought the policy, he should only have been charged  for time on 
cover. He thought Insurance Factory should  pay Mr M a further £75 to cover the extra 
premium hed been charged  due to the short-term rates and the inconvenience  hed faced.
Insurance Factory  said although it hadnt  acknowledged the error  it had made on short-term 
rates, its £50 gesture of goodwill more than covered the extra premium of £35.21 Mr M had 
been charged. It said Mr M hadnt therefore suffered any financial loss. It also said it had 
amended its sales script so consumers would be alerted to any short-term rates. The 
investigator then said Insurance Factory should  pay the £75 hed suggested - minus  the 
£35.21 - to reflect the fact that Mr M wasnt told about the short-term rates at the time. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance Factory  provided us with the call recordings from when the policy was set up, and 
Mr Ms recollection of what was said at the time isnt correct. He didnt mention wanting a 
Ref: DRN91567152multi-car policy when he insured the second car. I think  it was clear from the calls that he 
was being sold a single car policy. That would also have been clear  from the documents  that 
were sent to him after the sale - but Mr M didnt query the issue  even then.  
When he called to insure the third car, Mr M asked for a multi-car policy. The advisor tried to 
explain that Insurance Factory could only look at the policies on offer from the insurers  on its 
panel. It couldnt find a quote  for a multi-car policy that included  the second car. It seems 
that was due to the insurers on its panel  not wanting  to insure  a car of its age that was to be 
kept on a driveway.  But a policy for the other  two cars was offered to Mr M. 
I think its understandable that Mr M was confused by what  happened, as he managed  to get 
a quote from elsewhere to cover all three  cars. And the quote was lower than the one 
Insurance Factory  provided to insure just two of his cars. But Insurance Factory was limited  
to the insurers  on its panel  whereas Mr M was able to access  the whole market.  
In terms of the refund Mr M should have got, I think Insurance Factory made up for that 
when it tried to settle his complaint. I havent seen anything to show  that it said the refund 
would reduce if he complained to this service.  The £50 was more than the extra sum due to 
Mr M for the short-term charges - so he got an extra  £14.79 from Insurance  Factory.  It says 
no more should  be paid for distress and inconvenience. But I dont think £14.79 is enough. 
Mr M should have been told about  the short-term  rates at the point of sale, so he could 
decide whether  to go ahead with the second policy or not. He lost the chance to choose. And 
as he wasnt told about them,  he was confused and upset about being  overcharged  when he 
cancelled the policy. Insurance Factory told Mr M when it issued the total payment of £80.62 
to him that the £50 sum included in it was a gesture of goodwill. It said it had made no 
errors. That wasnt correct, and Mr M was left in the dark about the short-term rates. 
In my opinion, it was reasonable for the investigator to say Insurance Factory  should pay 
Mr M a further £39.79  of the extra £75 compensation  he initially suggested. That means hell 
be paid £54.58 in total for distress and inconvenience. I think  thats fair.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Insurance  Factory  Ltd to pay Mr M 
a further £39.79 compensation  for distress  and inconvenience. Under the Financial 
Ombudsman Services rules, I must  ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
29 November 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9156715