K820x#14complaint
Miss S complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) with a credit card, in 2003. 
background
One of our adjudicators has said her complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Miss S asked  for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S says she didnt  want  or need  the PPI. However, the sale was a long time ago and Ive 
seen the postal application  form Miss S used  to get her card.  Theres  a question on it asking 
her to choose whether she wants this type of PPI policy  on her new account. Miss S ticked 
the box and so in my view this document does demonstrate that Miss S must have wanted 
the policy at the time. 
Because this was a postal application, it wasnt  an advised sale. I think Miss S most  
probably filled in the form in her own time without  any input from Capital  One. And my 
experience of these  Capital  One postal sales, from that time period, is also that the 
application leaflet  was accompanied by some information about the terms and conditions of 
the PPI. I note Miss S was prompted  on the form to read through these. 
I can certainly see how Capital One could have  made improvements to the application  form 
to make it clearer.  But Im afraid  this doesnt change how I view the case and I still think she 
would have gone on to buy the PPI policy.
This is because the evidence  points to her wanting  the cover. I also think Miss S was eligible 
for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
policy. The cost of the PPI was 79p for every  £100 of balance  outstanding on her credit card 
and I dont think this would have been  unaffordable for her.
Miss S would have  probably benefitted from some  sick pay with her job. But as Ive already 
said, this wasnt an advised sale, so the choice  about having PPI was for her to make.  In the 
event of a successful claim, the policy wouldve paid off 10% of her outstanding balance for 
up to a year and I think this is most likely why she specifically chose to have PPI when she 
filled out her application form. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I can see how the cover was of use to her.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or direct Capital  One (Europe) plc to pay any compensation. 
Ref: DRN92829112Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9282911