K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement  financed 
by Close  Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (CBMF) wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. He wants a contribution towards repair costs.
background
Mr L told us that he acquired  the vehicle from a dealer  Ill refer to as H in July 2018. He 
says that the vehicle  started experiencing problems in October  2018.  And that in December 
the vehicle required  repairs as it was running poorly. Mr L explains that a business Ill refer to 
as L carried out repairs at a cost of £1,056.48.  He advises that H subsequently agreed to 
pay for the labour charges. These  repairs reportedly didnt solve all the issues  and Mr L says 
he then had a replacement engine fitted by a business Ill call A. And that this cost £1,300. 
Mr L states that he then raised a complaint with CBMF but that it refused to assist. He says 
hes since sold the vehicle  in a part-exchange deal. At the time of this sale the vehicle had 
an odometer reading of 109,115 miles.
CBMF told us that Mr L hadnt  raised  a complaint with it until April 2019. And that he hadnt 
provided any evidence  to show the faults  with the vehicle  were present at the point of supply.
Two of our investigators issued views on this complaint. Both concluded that there was 
insufficient information to show the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.
Mr L didnt accept this outcome  and asked that CBMF  make a small contribution towards  the 
repairs. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans  been asked to 
make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. CBMF  supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle.
Its always disappointing if a vehicle experiences serious issues  and this results  in expensive 
repairs. Unfortunately, this is more prone to happen with high mileage, older vehicles. And 
its a risk that a consumer  takes when acquiring such a vehicle. Here the vehicle was around 
seven years old with an odometer reading of 107,630 miles when supplied  to Mr L. 
Mr L complains  that after he acquired the vehicle it experienced faults which ultimately  
required a new engine  to be fitted. This followed earlier repairs  when the vehicle had 
required  amongst other parts   a replacement starter motor  and fuel injector.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
Ref: DRN98710752This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant  law here includes  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA);  and the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA);
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous  use and 
durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods  dont conform to contract within  six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
The first set of repairs took place  in December 2018 which  was within  six months of supply. 
Mr L didnt take the vehicle  to either  H or advise CBMF of the problems. Whilst its clear  
there were numerous issues requiring repairs what isnt known is if these were the result of 
normal wear and tear for a vehicle with this history. After this, a replacement  engine was 
fitted at a cost of £1,300  and again Mr L reports this didnt resolve  all the issues. Mr L now 
thinks the Engine Control Unit (ECU) may have been the cause.
Whilst Ive no doubt Mr L put a lot of money  into this vehicle  and didnt really receive any 
commensurate value  for that outlay  Im unable to find it would be fair and reasonable to 
require CBMF to refund  any of the expenses  incurred.
Mr L has explained that this was his first vehicle so he wasnt  familiar with his rights. And this 
might account for why he delayed his complaint to CBMF. Had Mr L raised with CBMF the 
problems with the vehicle when they became apparent in October  and December 2018 there 
may have  been  a different  outcome. But speculating now on what  an independent inspection 
might have found at that point isnt going to change things.
Ive considered testimony from a previous owner who refers  to the vehicle needing a couple 
of expensive things as being the reason why she decided to exchange  it. But as shes 
unable to remember the nature of the issues it could be that these related to wear  and tear 
items which a vehicle of that age might be expected to require.
And whilst I understand  that H contributed to the labour costs,  if the vehicle hadnt  been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply it wouldve been expected to cover the costs  of 
replacement parts as well. It appears  that this payment might be a gesture of goodwill  as 
opposed to an admission of liability.
In the absence of any independent information  to show that the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply I cant say that CBMF has acted unfairly in turning down Mr Ls 
request that it fund all or part of the costs of the repairs.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr L and I accept  that as this was his 
first motor  vehicle, hes had a very unfortunate experience. But for the reasons that Ive set 
out, Im unable to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN98710753my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9871075