K820x#14Complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC  UK Bank Plc refused to lend him money and as a result 
hes suffered significant losses.
Background
Mr M took a commercial mortgage with HSBC of £250,000  over 15 years  in 2009 to 
purchase a property. The interest  rate was fixed for three years. HSBCs said in 2010 Mr M 
told it he was having difficulty keeping up with the repayments and asked if it would consider 
accepting interest only repayments for the next 12 months. HSBC said it couldnt do this. So, 
Mr M sold the property and repaid the loan in July 2010. Mr M then complained  that he was 
charged an early repayment  fee that he wasnt expecting.  HSBC  didnt think this had been 
charged unfairly at the time but offered a goodwill gesture for other  issues that had been 
raised by Mr M, which he accepted. Mr M closed his current  account  with HSBC in 2011.
In 2016 HSBC undertook a review of past fixed-rate loans, which included the commercial 
mortgage taken  by Mr M in 2009.  It found that it shouldnt have offered Mr M the loan with a 
fixed interest rate. Instead, the loan shouldve had a variable interest rate, meaning  no early 
repayment charge  wouldve been  payable when Mr M repaid  it early  in 2010. After  
discussing the issues with Mr M, HSBC offered him a total of around £18,000. This included  
an adjustment of the interest payable  on the loan, the early repayment  charge, interest  at 8% 
and compensation  for the inconvenience caused.
Mr M accepted the payment but raised  concerns that HSBC  had caused  him to lose out on 
profits of £2-4 million due to the breakdown of his banking relationship  with it and its failure  
to lend to him in 2010 to develop other  property. He said HSBC wouldve loaned  him further  
money as it had given  him the commercial  mortgage  in 2009. Mr M said he would accept a 
payment of £250,000 to settle  the matter.
HSBC didnt think it had caused Mr M any other loss as a result of mis-selling  the loan in 
2009. However, it said it would consider any evidence Mr M could provide that showed a 
direct link between HSBCs actions in mis-selling his mortgage  and his losses.  HSBC  also 
told Mr M that it couldnt say whether or not it would  have loaned  him further  funds. It said 
any loan application  wouldve been  based on different  lending  criteria to the loan provided in 
2009 and in any event, Mr M hadnt  applied for any further lending.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service  in 2017.  An investigator thought HSBCs offer to 
consider further  evidence  was reasonable. Mr M accepted this at the time, informing our 
investigator that hed be providing HSBC with evidence to substantiate his claims.
Mr M got back  in touch with our service in 2019,  explaining HSBC  had gone back on its 
promise to cover his losses if he provided evidence. Mr M said hed provided the relevant 
evidence but HSBC had declined to pay him anything. He added that hed been told over the 
phone in 2017 by a HSBC  representative that the bank accepted it wouldve loaned him the 
money in 2010.  Mr M said the representative told him he just needed to evidence the 
property he wouldve developed and the profit  he wouldve  received.
Another investigator reconsidered  Mr Ms complaint  but didnt  uphold  it. He said there  wasnt  
any application for finance made by Mr M in 2010. But even if there had been, he wasnt 
persuaded that HSBC wouldve been  able to lend to him given the problems he was 
experiencing with the existing loan in 2010.  The investigator also thought  it wouldnt be fair 
Ref: DRN95650142to hold HSBC  at fault for not loaning Mr M further funds as he couldve approached other 
finance providers  at the time.
The investigator also didnt think Mr M was misled by HSBC  about paying him further 
compensation. He accepted HSBC told Mr M it was prepared to consider  any evidence of 
consequential losses. But he wasnt persuaded that HSBC had told Mr M that it wouldve 
loaned him money  in 2010 and that it would cover his losses upon receipt of evidence of the 
property he wouldve developed.
Mr M didnt  accept this. He maintained that HSBC  wouldve loaned him money in 2010  as it 
had loaned him money in 2009 and he was a long-standing customer. Mr M said HSBC had 
misrepresented what  happened  in 2010. He says he asked for interest only repayments 
because he didnt intend to keep the property for long as he bought it to make improvements 
and sell it on, so he wanted to benefit  from lower repayments. Mr M said HSBC should  have 
to prove  that it wouldnt have loaned him further funds. Mr M also maintained that hed been 
misled by HSBC about what evidence he needed  to provide to obtain  further  compensation.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me to make  a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I know Mr M will be very disappointed  with this outcome, as he feels  very strongly that hes 
been treated unfairly by HSBC and that hes suffered significant losses. But based  on 
everything Ive seen, I dont think HSBC  needs  to do any more to put things right. Mr Ms 
complaint has two parts, so Ill address each in turn.
HSBC refusing to lend to Mr M in 2010
It isnt in dispute that Mr M didnt submit any application for lending to HSBC in 2010.  
However, he says that because of the breakdown of his relationship with HSBC  due to 
problems with the 2009 loan, and because he says a manager told him it wouldnt lend to 
him, he was effectively prevented from applying for another  loan.
As this happened in 2010 there is very little information to substantiate this, apart  from 
Mr Ms own recollections and a document HSBC has sent us with dated  May 2010. The 
document discusses  Mr Ms loan and his options going forwards. It notes that Mr M had 
asked the bank to convert the commercial  mortgage to interest only repayments  for 
12 months, but the bank declined it. Another option  was for Mr M to sell the property and 
repay the loan.  The document shows HSBC  suggested to Mr M that he could try refinancing  
the loan with another bank rather than sell the property,  but Mr M said hed rather  sell it.
Its possible Mr M took this to mean that HSBC  wouldnt lend to him or that he shouldnt 
apply for further  funding. But this document pre-dates Mr Ms repayment of the mortgage in 
July 2010. So, Im not persuaded  that it shows Mr M was advised against applying  for further 
finance after hed repaid  the earlier loan.
Mr M says that he couldnt  apply  for another loan due to the breakdown  of his relationship 
with HSBC. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that HSBC wouldnt have considered 
Ref: DRN95650143an application for finance if hed made  one. Overall, it seems to me that Mr M decided he 
didnt wish to do further business with HSBC  after the problems he had with the first loan, as 
is his right.  But this didnt  stop him from approaching  alternative providers for finance. 
I havent seen  any reason  put forward by Mr M why his dealings with HSBC  meant  he 
couldnt have  applied for finance elsewhere.  
Ultimately, Mr M didnt  apply for any other  lending with HSBC and Im not persuaded HSBC 
did anything to stop him from applying for finance with it or any other provider. For this 
reason, I dont think HSBC is responsible for any profit Mr M says he missed out on because 
he wasnt given another loan with HSBC. And as Ive decided  Mr M wasnt prevented  from 
applying for another loan in 2010,  I dont think it matters whether or not HSBC  wouldve 
actually loaned him the money. So, Im not making  any award here.
HSBC misleading  Mr M about  paying  him further  compensation to cover his losses
In its final response letter  of 6 March 2017, HSBC said:
If you wish to claim for additional loss, costs  and/or  charges, please provide clear  evidence,
which is capable of being verified  or corroborated, that the additional  loss, costs and/or
charges have only been incurred by you because you entered  into the loan in question.
I think this shows that HSBC was prepared to consider additional evidence from Mr M but 
only if it showed he had suffered  additional losses because he entered into the loan on a 
fixed-interest rate, rather than on a variable rate. I dont think  there was ever an offer from 
HSBC to consider  Mr Ms consequential losses if hed been given another loan and had 
been able to invest in other property. 
I can also see that although HSBC said it would consider additional evidence from Mr M, it 
never gave  him any guarantees  that it would pay him further  compensation. In another final 
response letter dated 30 May 2017, HSBC reiterated the basis on which it would consider 
the evidence:
"...Should you make a claim for loss of profits, you would need  to show  (with supporting  
evidence) that the loss of profits was caused  by having entered  into the loan and not by any 
other factors, such as economic conditions. You will also need to show  that such  loss 
exceeds the 8% interest offer..."
As Mr M had asked whether it would accept  business  projections to support the claim, HSBC 
said that it would,  but it went  on to say:
However, we must emphasise that we cannot give you any assurances  that providing  such  
projections alone would result  in a successful claim. We assess  each claim on a case by 
case basis and it would  unfair and unreasonable for us to predetermine the outcome of your 
claim.
Mr M has also provided us with a copy of an email he received on 22 August 2018 from 
HSBC. This said:
The onus is very much upon you to provide information to us to substantiate your claim for 
additional losses and in our assessment, the losses you claim to have suffered were not as a 
result of taking out the Fixed Rate Loan. For the avoidance of doubt, the Bank has not at any 
time admitted any liability to your claim for additional losses.
Ref: DRN95650144So, based  on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr M has been misled by HSBC  about the basis  
on which HSBC would  consider further evidence. I appreciate Mr M may have interpreted 
this differently, but I dont think is through any misinformation from HSBC.  Overall, I think its 
been consistent in the message  its provided to Mr M.
I know Mr M says that he had telephone conversations where hes said HSBC has told him 
the opposite. He says he was told by a staff member that HSBC would have loaned him 
further funds in 2010 and that he simply needed to provide evidence of the property he 
wouldve developed  and the profits he wouldve earned.
Mr M hasnt  been able to specify  when this call took place. Hes said this either happened in 
2016 or 2017. But Mr M has had a lot of telephone  contact with HSBC during this time,  
totalling a significant number of hours  of calls. HSBC said it wasnt  prepared to listen to all of 
the calls to try and find a conversation that supports what  Mr Ms said.  And as Mr M hasnt 
been able to be more specific, I dont think thats unreasonable.
In the absence of the call recording, Ive had to think about the likelihood  of what Mr M says 
he was told being  accurate.  Having considered  this point  carefully,  I dont think its likely 
Mr M wouldve been told this. This is because  no one could retrospectively say that HSBC 
wouldve loaned Mr M money  in 2010  for certain without an application  having  been made. 
I also dont think its likely  Mr M wouldve been given  a different message about the evidence  
required, given  this would contradict all of the written  communication he received about this. 
Even if I could be persuaded that Mr M was told this by HSBC, I wouldnt expect it to pay his 
claim for compensation. This is because  as Ive said above, I dont think  Mr M was 
prevented by HSBC  from applying  for finance through it or any other provider.
In light of the above, I dont think HSBC misled Mr M about whether or not it would pay him 
further compensation on receipt of further evidence. So, Im not upholding  his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9565014