K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken  alongside 
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage, sold by Yorkshire Building Society (YBS). The first was taken out 
at a meeting in 2000 and the second  when  they took out a new mortgage  in 2003.
background
In the event of a successful claim the policies  would covered Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage  
repayments if they couldnt  work because of accident, sickness  or involuntary 
unemployment. The benefit of both policies was split equally  between Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R paid a monthly amount for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs R say they were strongly  advised  to take out the PPI. They say they didn't need 
the PPI as they had sufficient cover.
Our adjudicator considered both sales but didn't think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed.  So this complaint  has come to me for decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
the case. 
After careful consideration Ive decided the policies were not mis-sold. So Im not upholding 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.  Ill explain  why. 
Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs R were told they had to have the policies. But I think 
that YBS made Mr and Mrs R aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they 
chose to take it. 
Ive seen copies  of the paperwork  from both of the sales. These  are similar in each case. In 
particular, Ive seen  copies of the PPI application  forms  that have been completed and then 
signed and dated by Mr and Mrs R. On the forms there were a number of different options 
relating to PPI and the choices that were available. For example, how the benefit could be 
split between Mr and Mrs R, the waiting period before a claim could be made and the level of 
cover required. The options have been  responded to which  would suggest  that Mr and Mrs R 
made a decision  about  how the policy would be of most benefit to them.  
I also note that in the mortgage offer letters sent to Mr and Mrs R it states that Mr and Mrs R 
have chosen  to take out the mortgage payment insurance This suggests  that there was a 
choice about taking the PPI.
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R were made aware that 
PPI was optional.  I appreciate Mr and Mrs R have given  us their best recollections of what 
happened but given the time thats  passed since the sales, it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect them to now remember everything clearly. And buying insurance  isnt generally a 
memorable experience. 
Ref: DRN98090692YBS says it didn't advise Mr and Mrs R to take the PPI whereas Mr and Mrs R say they were 
strongly advised to take the PPI. But I dont need  to make a finding about this because it 
doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable for them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances 
at the time.
Both Mr and Mrs R were  both eligible for the PPI and met the other requirements to have the 
cover.
Mr and Mrs R were both employed and have told us they would have received sick pay from 
their employers that they could have used to meet  the repayments if either of them couldnt 
work. But the PPI would have paid the monthly benefit for up to 12 months  per claim if either  
of them  wasnt able to work. And the policies  would have paid out over and above any 
employee benefits they may have received, and for longer. So those benefits could have 
been used for other essential  outgoings, in what could have been a difficult  time. 
Mr and Mrs R have said they may have been  able to turn to their family for financial  support. 
But their familys  own financial  circumstances could  have changed, so those offers of 
support couldnt  be guaranteed. 
A mortgage is a large and long term financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Rs home  could 
have been at risk if they failed to make  the repayments. So I think  Mr and Mrs R could have 
benefited from having the PPI and it gave them a financial comfort they didn't otherwise 
have. 
As I cant  be sure how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs R, I cant know if they were  
given all of the information about  the PPI at the time it was taken out. For example, I cant  be 
sure how clearly the cost and benefit  were explained. But I think  they chose to take out the 
policies so it appears that they wanted this type of cover. They could benefit from the policy  
and I dont think theres anything in the information they may not have had that would have 
put them off taking out the cover. So I think that Mr and Mrs R would have taken the PPI if 
they had all of the right information. 
After taking everything into consideration, I dont think  the PPI was mis-sold to 
Mr and Mrs R. So this means YBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
them. 
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI for the later policy  the one sold in 2003 
 to Mr and Mrs R.
This is because the Supreme Court  decided a case that involved the commission  on a PPI 
policy  Plevin v Paragon Personal  Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)   
who make  the rules for financial businesses  have introduced  some  new rules  and 
guidance for businesses to follow  when  theyre looking at PPI complaints that are affected by 
this court  ruling.
What this means is that if businesses expected to get a high level of commission  from the 
PPI  more than half of what  the consumer paid for the policy   they should  have told the 
consumer about  it. If that didnt happen,  it might mean the business  didn't treat the consumer 
fairly. And, in turn the business might  have to give the consumer some of the commission 
back. 
Ref: DRN98090693But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements  
taken out before then and were still running on 6 April 2008. Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage  taken 
in 2000 closed in 2003 so this doesnt apply to that policy.  
what YBS needs to do for the policy taken in 2003
If it hasnt  already done so, YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs R any extra interest they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs R the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs R 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs R can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the policies were  mis-sold so I dont uphold 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  about Yorkshire Building  Society.
Yorkshire Building Society should repay any commission or profit  share it received that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium for the 2003 sale to Mr and Mrs R. I understand it has 
already done this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9809069