K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  on behalf of her parents Mr and Mrs J. They are unhappy that Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  has declined their claim for fire/explosion damage  to their 
property.
background
Mr and Mrs Js property consists of a main  building with a brick built outbuilding.  The 
outbuilding had a small gym, kitchen  and sitting area. Mr and Mrs Js son (Mr J2) had 
agreed, with Mrs Js knowledge  that his friend (Mr S) could use the gym. As a part of that 
Mr S had been given  a key. Miss J says that the agreement  was that Mr S could  only use the 
premises before 7.00pm  and after that only if her brother  was present. 
In the early hours  of 17 February  2015 there was an explosion in the outbuilding causing 
considerable damage. Mr S was injured but it appears that Mr J2 was in the house at the 
time. He asked Miss J for a key to the outbuilding  but she said she wasnt  aware of what  had 
happened. Mr J2 helped put the fire out and drove  Mr S to the hospital. He didnt call the 
police or the fire brigade. The police  were alerted to it by a neighbour and they called the fire 
brigade.
Admiral arranged for a forensic report. That found  that the fire was likely caused by butane 
gas which had been used for the production of oil from cannabis  plants.
Mr J2 and Mr S were charged with possession with intent to supply and of being concerned 
in the production of, cannabis and cannabis oil. Mr S pleaded guilty  to the charges. At a trial 
in July 2016 Mr J2 was acquitted of all charges.
Admiral declined the claim. It said that Mr and Mrs J had breached the policy exclusion for 
loss or damage causedillegally or unlawfully or by any criminal act byanyone lawfully in 
your home.  It said that by allowing Mr S to have a key, Mr S was lawfully  in the home. It 
also said Miss J had failed to co-operate with the investigation by saying the police were  still 
investigating the matter when Mr J2 and Mr S had already  been  charged.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Mr and Mrs J hadnt failed to co-operate. 
But he said that Admiral  had acted reasonably. Whilst Mr and Mrs J and their family  were 
unaware of any criminal  activity, by allowing the friend to have a key he was lawfully on the 
premises. He hadnt seen anything to suggest that any measures had been put in place to 
ensure the friend only used the building at certain times.
Miss J said that the following factors came  out in Court,  and would show  in the notes of the 
hearing that Admiral  had taken:
Mr S had gained entry  without permission and concealed himself in the property  on the 
night of 16 February.
The Court  hearing  confirmed that Mr S entered the property unlawfully with criminal 
intent.
Mr S was aware of Mr Js ill health and would have had good reason to assume they 
would not be in the property at that time.
Ref: DRN95879482The Court  hearing  confirmed that Mr S had been  given a time restriction,  and his 
presence on 16/17 February  was evidently  outside of the agreed times  hence  his 
unlawful presence.
Mr Ss purpose was to carry out a criminal activity, unknown  to them. The agreement  to 
lawfully access the property was only extended  to use of the gym. Instead,  Mr S 
unlawfully accessed other rooms within the property  to carry out his criminal activity.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following on from Miss Js response  to our investigators view,  our investigator has at my 
request obtained  further documents from Admiral, including some notes of the preliminary 
and pre-trial hearings and some  initial notes of the full hearing. I havent seen complete 
notes of that hearing but I dont think that it is necessary for me to see them.
First of all, I accept that Mr J2 was unaware  that Mr S was carrying out any criminal activity  
in the outbuilding. I take note of the result of the criminal hearing, and although  the acquittal 
would have been on the criminal standard of proof, I dont think  the evidence  shows that it 
was likely that Mr J2 knew what was going on.
But, in this case Admiral  isnt saying that Mr J2 or any member of the family had any 
knowledge that Mr S was committing a criminal  act. The question that arises is whether the 
following exclusion in the policy applies:
Any liability that arises, loss or damage caused, or allowed to be caused, deliberately, 
wilfully, maliciously, illegally  or unlawfully or by any criminal act by you or any member of 
your family, paying guest  or tenant, or anyone  lawfully in your home.
So, once Mr S was in the home, including the outbuilding, unless it can be shown that he 
was unlawfully there at the time of the offence the fact that Mr J2 and/or any other members 
of the family werent aware  of what he was doing,  becomes irrelevant
It has been pointed  out that Mr S was under a curfew   that is, it was said that he wasnt 
allowed on the premises after 7 pm without Mr J being present. Mrs J appeared to have 
been unaware that Mr S had been given a key. Her statement given to Admirals  investigator 
sets out that she believes  he was given  a key because Mr J was in hospital and it was easier 
for him to use the gym without disturbing  the family.
So, if any time restriction had been put on Mr S using the outbuilding it was by Mr J2. When  
he was questioned by the police, his solicitors drew  up a prepared statement for him which  
said that [Mr S] had free access to the outbuilding purely for weight training purposes and 
not live there  and certainly not to carry out any criminal activity. I havent been  in the 
outbuilding for a number of days .
There was no mention of any curfew  in that statement. It appears that the key was given to 
Mr S on the Sunday, two days  before the incident.  The evidence is that Mr J2 and Mr S had 
known each other for a number of years  and often trained  together. But at the time of the 
Ref: DRN95879483incident Mr J2 hadnt been there for a number of days. If Mr S was under such a curfew, I 
cant see that it was strictly enforced. Any such curfew is also inconsistent  with the reference 
in Mr J2s statement to free access to the outbuilding. Also,  after 7 pm is a bit vague with 
no before time. I accept  that Mr S wouldnt have  been expected to be there in the early  
morning but it does appear to me that his access to the outbuilding was fairly  loosely  
monitored. This was understandable, before  the incident the family didnt have  any reason 
not to trust him. I further accept that Mr S made  sure his presence there wasnt noticed,  but 
he was able to take such steps as he had a key. But the ultimate result of that is that I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Admiral to take the view that Mr S was lawfully on the 
premises.
Miss J says the court hearing  confirmed that Mr S was unlawfully  on the premises and that 
he was given a time restriction, his presence  on 17 February being outside  of those times. I 
have obtained  some details from Admiral  about  the court hearing, although the notes  dont 
show the complete  examination/cross examination of Mr J2. Certain facts were accepted by 
both sides, although  they didnt extend to any agreement that Mr S was there unlawfully or 
outside agreed times. But it does appear  that (according to Admirals  final response  letter  of 
30 January 2017) Mr J2 did say in evidence that Mr S was specifically told not to enter  the 
premises after 7pm.  But again, that doesnt  amount to the court  making a finding  of fact. 
I dont think the court  hearing established  whether  Mr S was lawfully or unlawfully on the 
premises  that wasnt  its purpose.  This was to establish whether Mr J2 was complicit  in 
Mr Ss crimes and it is accepted that he wasnt. 
Ive considered Miss Js point that Mr S was only allowed to use the gym equipment and no 
other rooms  in the outbuilding. And by using other rooms he was there unlawfully. I dont 
think thats the case  by giving him a key and access  to the outbuilding I think  Mr S was 
given access to the whole outbuilding. The criminal  activity took place in the kitchen and it 
doesnt appear likely to me that Mr S would have been expected  not to use it. 
failure to co-operate
Admiral was concerned  that Miss J attempted to frustrate its investigation of her
parents claim by advising it and its investigators  that the police investigation was ongoing 
when Mr S and Mr J2 had been  charged with the production of an illegal  drug. The crime 
report mandate was not provided  until August 2016 despite requests and chasers, and as of 
January 2017,  it had not yet been  provided with a fully complete list of damaged contents. It 
said this was a failure  to co-operate under the terms of the policy.
I think that was unfair on Miss J - she did explain to Admiral that they were waiting for the 
case against Mr J to conclude and she contacted it immediately after the case  had 
concluded. She also explained that the family was concerned  about  Mr Js ill health  during 
this period. I dont think that Admiral was justified  in alleging non-cooperation in this case. 
That doesnt  however make  any difference to the outcome  of this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J on behalf  of 
Mr and Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before  7 March  2020.
Ref: DRN95879484Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9587948