K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading  as Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about eighteen  payday  loans Quick Quid  provided  to Mr W from March  
2011 onwards.  Mr Ws last loan was provided  in August 2014. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ws complaint  and thought the loans  from loan three 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Quick Quid disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  As the parties havent been able to agree 
on a resolution the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr W could  repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  repay his loans  in a sustainable  manner. And I think  that this is wider 
than simply assessing  whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.  Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an 
Ref: DRN98193592indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan three would most likely have 
shown that:
Mr W had taken more than five months  to repay  loan two and that he was borrowing 
almost three times what appears to have  already  found difficult  to repay. In these 
circumstances, there  was a significant  risk that Mr W wouldnt have been  able to 
repay this loan without  undue difficulty or borrowing further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr W, I think  that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr W was unlikely to have been able to make 
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan four. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr W was into his seventh  month of owing Quick  Quid  money. In my 
view, Mr Ws loan history up until this point was in itself a clear demonstration of his 
inability to settle his loans  over the life of the credit agreement   hed had a number 
of deferrals on loan two and took loans three  and four mere days after settling the 
previous one. Mr Ws fourth loan was for more  than double  the amount of his first and 
hed already repaid significantly more than what he was lent in interest  fees and 
charges.   
Mr W continued to be provided with new loans shortly after having repaid previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr W was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr Ws indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.  
Mr W was provided with loans for a period  of approaching four years.  I accept that 
there were a couple of occasions  where there was a break of a few months. But 
given the number of loans and the amounts they were  for, I dont think these were 
enough for Quick  Quid to have reasonably concluded Mr W would be able to repay 
further loans sustainably. 
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads into what he owed Quick Quid and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan eighteen, 
which was for six times the amount, was provided almost  three and a half years  after 
Mr Ws first. This period  of time Mr W cant in any reasonable circumstances be 
described as short-term. Mr W being  lent to in this way, in these circumstances, 
meant that he paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to 
Quick Quid over an extended period.
Ref: DRN98193593I think that Mr W lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan 
seven onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr W owed Quick  Quid money was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans three to thirteen  and Quick  Quid  should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans three to eighteen;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr W owed Quick Quid money means that any information still 
recorded about loans four to eighteen is adverse. So all entries about loans three  to 
thirteen (where they remain) should be removed from Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9819359