K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that GKFX Financial Services Limited unfairly  closed her trading account 
without notifying  her  this led to trades  being closed, incurring losses  which shed like 
refunded. 
background
Miss G had a trading  account with GKFX. On 23 April 2019, GKFX got in touch with her to 
ask why she was repeatedly  depositing and withdrawing money into her trading account. 
Miss G explained she used a credit  card to fund her account, so before the balances were  
due shed withdraw the money to settle her statements.  
On 29 April, GKFX replied  to say this wasnt an acceptable pattern of behaviour  and said 
they expect deposited funds to be used for trading.  They also enquired as to the status of 
the account. Miss G clarified the account  was of a personal nature and again she again 
explained she deposited and withdrew  money  because of credit  card statement due dates. 
On 30 April, GKFX asked  Miss G to find another way to fund her account  and to tell her that 
if her pattern  of behaviour  continued, they would consider closing her account. 
On 1 May,  Miss G deposited £900 at 3:14pm. But at 3:25pm, eleven minutes later, she 
withdrew £900. 
On 2 May at 9:33am,  GKFX emailed Miss G to say that given her continued behaviour,  
theyd be closing her account at 5pm that day  giving her time to close  her open positions. 
Miss Gs positions remained open  so GKFX closed these for her on 3 May. 
On 5 May,  Miss G emailed GKFX as she was unable to log into her account. GKFX  
forwarded their email from 2 May and confirmed the account had been closed and the 
remaining balance returned.  
On 8 May,  Miss G replied to explain she hadnt received the email and to ask that her £470 
losses from the closed  positions were refunded. She also said she didnt  know  why GKFX  
had an issue with her deposits and withdrawals.  
Miss Gs concerns were  treated as a complaint but GKFX didnt agree theyd done anything  
wrong. They explained theyd asked Miss G about her pattern of behaviour  and asked her 
not to continue with it, but following the activity on 1 May they closed  the account. They said 
theyd contacted Miss G using the email address she had registered with them  and that 
theyd had an email  from her, from that address, on 29 April. They also said their terms gave 
them discretion to close accounts if they so wished. 
Remaining unhappy with this, Miss G asked for our help. One of our investigators  looked  into 
what had happened, but she didnt agree GKFX  had done anything  wrong. Our investigator 
looked at Miss Gs deposit  and withdrawal pattern and identified  similar behaviours  to what 
GKFX referred  to. She also pointed to the terms of the account which allowed GKFX to close  
it, but suggested a closure statement was sent to provide clarity for Miss G. 
Ref: DRN90345952Miss G didnt  accept what our investigator  said  she explained the emails GKFX had sent 
were not to her regular  email address and if they had been, shed have been aware of their 
request and acted  accordingly. So as an agreement couldnt be reached,  the case was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with what our 
investigator said, for broadly the same reasons. 
Firstly, the terms  of Miss Gs account allowed GKFX to close her account for a variety of 
reasons  these  can be found under section 39 of the original terms, and section 38 of the 
updated terms. This is quite usual  and not something we would typically  interfere with  it is 
for businesses to decide who they want to do business with, in the same way that it is for 
consumers to decide as to which business they want  to open an account  with. GKFX say 
their accounts are for trading, so I can appreciate their concerns having considered the 
volume of money  in and out of this account, as opposed to the volume of actual trades.
Miss G received an email  from GKFX  enquiring as to why she deposited and withdrew 
money on her trading  account. Miss G replied with her reasons, but nevertheless GKFX 
asked her to stop doing this. Miss G replied to that email. So I dont  agree  with her in that 
she wasnt aware of what had been asked  of her.
Miss G says she didnt get the account  closure email, but again, I dont agree with her  it 
was sent to the same email address that had been used in previous correspondence  and 
shes also sent us a screenshot of her inbox  this shows an email  from compliance at 
9:33am on 2 May 2019. So Im satisfied  she got this email too. While Miss G was only given 
until the end of the day before her account  was closed, Im satisfied she had been warned of 
the consequence.
As our investigator pointed out, Miss G had deposited and withdrawn money on more  25 
occasions in the last two months alone. There were also a number of times where Miss G 
deposited and withdrew money within 12 hour or so windows. So while  I acknowledge she 
says she would withdraw money to settle  a credit card bill, many  of her deposits  and 
withdrawals were on the same day and within the same month   not just once a month on 
roughly the same date to meet a typical payment deadline. In addition, having  considered  
some of her trading history I can see there are often more transactions in and out of the 
account than actual trades completed  so I can appreciate why GKFX queried  what Miss G 
was doing.  
Regardless of this, whats important to note is that Miss G was asked  about  what she was 
doing, was then asked to stop doing it, was warned of the consequence  of not doing so yet 
still continued with the same  behaviour.  For this reason, I cant  see GKFX have done  
anything wrong  so I wont be asking them to refund any losses  or do anything  differently. 
Ref: DRN90345953my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9034595