K820x#14complaint
Mr R disputed a payment on his MBNA Limited  credit card.  He asked  MBNA  to refund him, 
but it refused.
background
In September  2018, Mr R was on holiday abroad. He hired a car for one day. He said he 
paid cash for the use of the car. In the foreign  currency, this was the equivalent of around  
£300. Mr R said he also provided  his credit card details,  for the equivalent of around £600, in 
case of any fines or accident.  Mr R said that he was promised this money would be returned  
to him within  two weeks, but it wasnt. 
Mr Rs MBNA credit  card was debited with £625.71  on 14 September.  Mr R complained to 
MBNA and asked for a refund.
MBNA asked the car hire company for the relevant documentation about Mr Rs transaction. 
The car hire company provided a document  which broke down the total debit into car rental, 
speeding fines, cleaning charges, and mileage. The document also showed that there  was a 
small balance  due to the customer. Mr Rs name,  personal details, and credit  card 
information, were on the form. It was signed  with the same signature in three places: for the 
driver, hirer and credit card debit authorisation. 
MBNA refused Mr Rs claim for a refund. In its final response, MBNA explained that all 
chargeback claims had to meet the rules set by the relevant credit card network.  But MBNA 
said it couldnt submit a claim to the chargeback scheme because Mr R hadnt provided any 
evidence that hed also paid for the car in cash.  MBNA said it had also considered  whether 
Mr R had a claim  under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. But MBNA didnt 
consider there was any evidence that there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. It refunded Mr R with £69.37, as a gesture of goodwill, because  the 
document had shown  that there had been a partial refund due to Mr R. But it refused to 
refund the whole amount.
Mr R wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  He said he accepted the speeding 
fines, but said he didnt recall a discussion about  cleaning the car, or mileage. He told our 
investigator that he remembered signing a piece of paperwork for the deposit, but he didnt 
have a copy. He said that wasnt the form that the hire firm had sent to MBNA, and the 
signatures on that document werent  his. Mr R also forwarded messages which he said were 
promises from the car hire firm that theyd refund him.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint.  He considered the evidence available, and 
thought it was more likely than not that Mr R had signed the car hire agreement. Mr R hadnt 
provided a receipt  to show hed paid cash for the hire. And the agreement  confirmed  the 
hirers agreement to pay any fines,  and set out the price for excess  mileage.  The form 
showed the mileage at the start and end of the hire, which tallied with the price charged.  So 
the investigator didnt  consider there had been any misrepresentation  or breach  of contract.
Mr R wasnt satisfied. He said that he thought  the car hire firm had copied his signature.  He 
also said that the document which the car hire firm had provided was completely different to 
the one it had given him at the time.  He maintained  that the money had been for the security 
deposit, and that the company had said it would refund him. He said hed provided 
Ref: DRN91535252messages showing  the firm would refund him, whereas the car hire firm had only provided 
one document  which could  clearly  have been  forged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first set out the rules which apply to this type of complaint. The chargeback  system  is 
intended to resolve  settlement disputes. These  are decided  on the card schemes rules. 
Here, Mr R doesnt have any evidence  such as a receipt  that he paid separately in cash  
for the car hire. So MBNA wouldnt have been  able to submit a claim to the card scheme.
The other possible route for refunds is through Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
This allows, in limited circumstances, someone  who buys goods and services on credit,  to 
make a claim against the credit provider jointly with the supplier. But there are limits on this, 
and claims can only be made on the basis that theres been  misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract.
So what  I need to determine is whether there has been  a misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract.
Looking at what happened, Mr R accepts that he hired the car, but says he paid cash.  He 
hasnt provided  any evidence of that, and Id expect him to have been able to provide a 
receipt. In contrast, the form which Mr R disputes, lists his:
-driving licence  number and issue date;
-passport number including issue and expiry  dates;
-date of birth;
-credit  card details;
-three signatures.
Mr R has stressed  the importance of the messages he sent us, which  he says prove that the 
company was going to return his money.  Ive looked  at these, but dont agree that this is 
what the messages  indicate. One from Mr R says I took car over 2 weeks  ago but my 
money from credit card has not been returned. Theres a reply saying 15 of October they 
send you bro you have  already  fine ok. 
Importantly, these messages dont  say how much was due to be returned. Theres nothing to 
indicate that the car hire firm ever intended to refund more  than the small amount which the 
document says was due to the customer, after the charges for car hire, speeding fines,  
cleaning and mileage. In the absence of any receipt  showing that Mr R paid in cash  for his 
car hire, I consider its more likely than not that the refund discussion was about this small 
balance. I note that MBNA took this amount into account when it refunded Mr R £69.37 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Ive considered Mr Rs argument that the car hire firm forged  his signature. Mr R submitted 
his complaint form to us online, so I dont  have a signature to compare  with those on the car 
hire firms form  and In any case Im not a forgery expert. But I consider its unlikely that the 
signatures are forged. I say that because the form also contains  a lot of Mr Rs personal  
details, which Ive set out above. In contrast, Mr R hasnt provided any evidence to show that 
he paid for his car hire any other way. So I consider that its most  likely that the car hire 
firms form is accurate,  and was signed by Mr R, as an acceptance of what the form said.
Ref: DRN91535253So I find there was no misrepresentation,  or breach of contract, by the car hire firm. This 
means that MBNA didnt do anything wrong when it refused to reimburse Mr R.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9153525