K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background 
Between May 2016 and July 2017,  Mr C took out ten instalment loans with Sunny. At the 
outset, the loans were  repayable in 24 weekly instalments. Mr C repaid all of the loans. A 
summary of Mr Cs borrowing  with Sunny is shown as an appendix to this decision. 
Mr C says that Sunny didnt carry out proper checks before lending to him. He says that he 
had difficulty repaying the loans.  Mr C wants Sunny to refund interest and charges,  with 
interest. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Cs complaint. He said that Sunny shouldnt have given 
Mr C loans six to ten and he set out what Sunny should do to put things  right. Sunny agreed 
with the adjudicators assessment but Mr C didnt. He said that the compensation wasnt  
sufficient, as he borrowed a substantial amount over several loans and paid interest. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C  could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN91034042There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr C could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
I dont think that Sunny  was wrong  to give Mr C loans one to five. Given  the repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the time and his history with the 
lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr C for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Mr C provided or the information  Sunny shouldve been aware of, which 
meant it wouldve  been proportionate to start verifying what  Mr C said. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Cs lending history  with Sunny, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because  from loan six onwards Mr C was provided with a new loan before  hed 
settled the loans with Sunny that were already outstanding. And by this point, hed been  
borrowing from Sunny  without a break for almost  nine months. So Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr C  was having to borrow  further  to cover the hole 
repaying the loans  he already had was leaving  in his finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably.
Mr C wasnt making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  ten was taken out 
almost 14 months after Mr Cs first. Mr C had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service overlapping  loans  to Sunny over an extended period. 
I think that Mr C lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness  by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time. And the sheer number of loans may have had negative implications on Mr Cs ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans six to ten and Sunny should  put things right.
Ref: DRN91034043putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C  paid on loans six to ten;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans six to ten should be removed from 
Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint  in part. Elevate Credit  
International Limited, trading as Sunny, should  pay Mr C  compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91034044appendix  Mr Cs lending  with Sunny
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
1 25 May 2016 100 17 June 2016
2 17 June 2016 150 18 November 2016
3 7 October 2016 100 13 February 2017
4 23 November 2016 100 13 April 2017
5 26 January 2017 50 17 February 2017
6 18 February 2017 50 4 August 2017
7 3 March 2017 50 30 June 2017
8 13 April 2017 100 3 October 2017
9 20 June 2017 150 15 September 2017
10 15 July 2017 100 10 November 2017
Ref: DRN9103404