K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained about the way BUPA Insurance Limited administered his private  
medical insurance policy after he switched from a group policy  to a personal policy while  
undergoing treatment.
background
Mr J was a member of his employers group private medical insurance scheme, 
administered by BUPA. He suffered  from atrial  fibrillation. He saw a consultant and 
underwent certain  tests  for which BUPA provided cover.
The consultant recommended that Mr J undergo a further test. BUPA again provided 
authorisation for this. However, shortly before the test was due to take place, Mr J was made 
redundant by his employer. BUPA confirmed that it therefore wouldnt provide cover  for the 
test under his former employers policy. Mr J ended up taking out a personal policy providing 
continuity of cover but the annual premium  for this was £5,249, which  was more than three 
times the amount which Mr J had been  paying  under his employers scheme which  had 
provided family cover.
Mr J complained to BUPA. He thought it should  have allowed him to have a run-off period 
under his former employers scheme  during which he could have received treatment which 
had already been authorised. He thought  it was unfair that he had to pay another  excess 
under his new personal policy  even though  hed paid an excess for his treatment under  his 
former employers scheme. And he thought the price  he had been required to pay for 
continued cover under  his personal policy was excessive.  
BUPA didnt  uphold  his complaint. Mr J therefore referred his complaint to us.
While his complaint was under investigation, Mr J raised a further  complaint after he had 
exceeded his policys annual outpatient benefit limit of £1,000. He said BUPA  had failed to 
keep him informed of his level of outpatient  claims and furthermore should have known the 
outpatient limit was inadequate  for his needs when it sold him the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She considered that BUPA had administered  
the group  scheme in accordance with the policy terms and was under no obligation to 
provide cover for Mr Js treatment once his employer had made him redundant. She was 
satisfied a new excess was payable once Mr J had switched to a personal policy and that 
the price hed been charged for the policy was fair. She noted that BUPA had acknowledged 
its failure to keep Mr J informed and had therefore  agreed to pay claims beyond his annual  
outpatient limit; she thought this was fair. She noted  the sale had been made on a non-
advised basis and was satisfied that Mr J had been  given sufficient details about his options 
to enable him to make  an informed decision about  his level of outpatient  cover.
Mr J didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He thought BUPA could  easily have offered him 
a six month  extension to his former  employers policy and that it had been  opportunistic  in 
profiteering from his situation. He said BUPA should have advised him on the level of 
outpatient cover which  he was likely to need  as a result of his condition.   
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN93408692my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The group scheme  to which  Mr J belonged was an agreement between  BUPA  and his 
former employer. It was up to Mr Js former employer to determine  when his membership of 
the scheme ended. It apparently decided it should  end on the date of his redundancy. The 
membership guide  clearly explained  that cover would be provided only for treatment which  
took place while Mr J was in membership of the scheme. BUPA was therefore under no 
obligation to provide cover for treatment  which took place after the date of his redundancy, 
regardless of whether it had previously  authorised  this. If Mr J wanted to explore  the 
possibility of extending his cover under the group scheme, it was something he needed to 
raise with his former employer rather than BUPA.
Mr Js cover under the group scheme  had been  subject  to an excess and as Mr J had made  
a claim while  covered by the scheme he had paid this. Mr Js personal policy also had an 
excess and so when  he made a claim under  this for his ongoing treatment, this excess 
became payable. Mr J considers this to be unfair. However, the personal policy  is new and 
distinct from the group scheme. Mr J was made aware of the excess  when he took out the 
personal policy. I consider  it was fair for BUPA to apply the new excess.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter with which we wouldnt normally get involved. BUPA has 
provided details  of how it calculated the cost of Mr Js personal  policy. I cant  share  this 
information because  it is commercially sensitive but I can tell him the cost was increased due 
to the recent treatment  hed received for his atrial fibrillation. I would expect an insurer  to 
take account of this in determining the premium  because it affects the likely  cost of providing  
cover. I recognise that Mr J was required to pay considerably more than hed been paying  
under his former employers scheme  but Im satisfied that his premium was calculated fairly.   
Mr Js personal  policy  was subject  to a £1,000 annual benefit  limit for outpatient  treatment 
which he ended up exceeding. BUPA  acknowledged  that it hadnt  kept him properly  informed 
of his level of outpatient  claims.  It therefore agreed to cover  the excess costs of £267 which  
Mr J had incurred. I think this was fair.
Mr J thinks BUPA should have advised him that the £1,000  allowance for outpatient costs 
was insufficient  for his needs. However, the sale of the personal policy  was made  a non-
advised basis. Ive listened to the sales call and am satisfied BUPA told Mr J enough for him 
to make an informed decision.  He could have had unlimited outpatient benefit but this would 
have resulted in his premium being  even  higher.  He chose  to have £1,000  worth  of cover for 
outpatient treatment  and Im therefore  satisfied that, now he is aware of his level of claims, 
BUPA may apply  that limit to his future claims.
In summary,  I sympathise with Mr J that he lost his membership of his employers group 
scheme while he was in the middle of ongoing treatment. This was unfortunate  timing  from 
his point of view. However,  Im satisfied that BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ref: DRN93408693my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019..
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9340869