K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1987. Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them  the MPPI. 
The mortgage was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr H.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H  I 
know theyve waited  a long time for a conclusion  to their complaint. Ill explain  the reasons 
for my decision below.
Mr and Mrs H say that MPPI was never explained  to them   and they just assumed it was a 
requirement of getting their mortgage.  
The first thing I need to consider is if BoS gave Mr and Mrs H a choice in taking out the 
MPPI. The sale of the mortgage and policy took place  a long time ago, during a meeting   so 
I cant know what was said at the time. But BoS has been able to find paperwork that was 
completed, including a mortgage application,  a separate MPPI application and a certificate of 
insurance showing what the policy covered, and has sent copies for me to review. Having 
looked at these documents, I can see that the MPPI is presented  as an optional product,  and 
I think BoS made it clear  that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the MPPI  and they chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this as it was over 30 
years ago.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the MPPI  was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  
and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover.  
Mr H has expressed  concern that he became  self-employed in 1993, and that this wouldve 
made the policy unsuitable for him. He thinks that BoS shouldve  routinely questioned him 
about any change  in circumstance. Some MPPI policies make claiming harder for a person 
who is self-employed  I dont know if Mr and Mrs Hs policy  did as these terms are not 
available to me to review  (but this isnt surprising given how long ago the policy  was sold  
and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely). But Mr H wasnt  self-employed 
at the time and didnt become so until six years after the policy  was sold, so I cant  say he 
had imminent plans  to become self-employed  that BoS shouldve taken in to account when it 
sold him the policy. And it was up to Mr and Mrs H to check if the policy  was still suitable 
when their circumstances changed. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs H about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong   I can see 
that in 2006 a successful  claim was made on the policy. It also looks like it was affordable. 
Ref: DRN92456732So I dont  think better information about the MPPI would have put them  off taking out the 
cover. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs H because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H has said - including what theyve said about 
paying a lot for MPPI  as they had it for such a long time,  and they feel this means the policy 
was mis-sold. But just because they have paid for the policy for a long time doesnt  mean  
that it was mis-sold to them, and this point doesnt  change my decision.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland  plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. I understand it has already done  
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9245673