K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Santander  UK Plc deducted  an unarranged overdraft fee from her 
account in March 2019. 
background
Miss P has a current  account  with Santander with an agreed overdraft limit of £1550. She 
was charged an unarranged  overdraft  fee on 14 March 2019,  which  related to her going into 
an unarranged  overdraft on 11 February  2019.  This was because  an unpaid cheque  came 
out of her account  that day. 
Before this fee was deducted from her account  Miss P wrote to Santander appealing against 
it being applied.  But she said Santander applied the charge anyway and told her it had been 
correctly deducted  from her account.  It also said it had previously  waived account  charges 
and explained  how she could avoid incurring such fees again. So it wasnt  prepared to waive  
the fee on this occasion. 
Miss P wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to our service. She said she didnt 
think the fee was fair because Santander  hadnt text her to inform her that her account would 
go into an unarranged  overdraft facility, which it usually did. She said that had she received 
a text of this nature she would have credited her account with money to cover the shortfall. 
So she felt Santander  should have tent her a warning about the status  of her account. 
On investigating  the charges that had been deducted from Miss Ps account, our investigator 
didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong.  They said that Santander was entitled  to 
apply those charges  and that it had acted  in line with the account  terms and conditions.  But 
Miss P disagreed with our investigators  view and asked for her complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
uphold her complaint.  Ill explain why. 
I know Miss P feels very strongly about this complaint. But my decision on this case is based  
on the actions  of Santander.  Its for me to determine whether it did something wrong and I 
dont think it has. 
From Miss Ps bank  statements I can see she has been charged a £10 fee for Santander 
paying the cheque that debited her account on 11 February. This caused her to exceed her 
arranged overdraft limit by around  £30. So, she was also charged an unarranged overdraft 
fee. I can also see that Miss Ps salary credited her account on 12 February which  brought 
her account  back within  her arranged overdraft facility.  
Miss P has raised an issue  about  the fairness of the charges that had been deducted from 
her account.  So, Ill focus  on this part of her complaint first.
As our investigator explained, these types of charges were considered by the Supreme 
Court in the OFT test case and it concluded that it could not consider the fairness of these 
Ref: DRN98335262charges under the Unfair  Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR).  So the 
amount of charges cant be challenged on the grounds theyre too high.
But our service can consider whether the charges that were  applied to Miss Ps account 
were applied in line with the terms and conditions of her account. So Ill address whether I 
think they were.
The terms of Miss Ps account outline  the tariff of charges Santander may apply to a 
customers account in certain circumstances in plain and intelligible  language.  In relation to 
unarranged overdraft charges in particular, they state that a fee of £6 per day will be applied 
to a customers account each time they exceed  their arranged overdraft. I also note that 
Santanders terms and conditions include a cap on the charges that can be applied  for each 
charging period  to prevent  a cycle of charges occurring. 
These terms also state that Santander  can use its discretion to honour payments which can 
take a customer into an unarranged overdraft.  And where it does this a fee of £10 will be 
charged for allowing  a payment  despite lack of funds. So, I think  the information provided  
to Miss P here was clear  and that she ought to have known that making payments that 
would take her into an unarranged overdraft would incur fees. And I dont think Santander 
acted in error in allowing the cheque to be paid.
Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to apply the daily unarranged  overdraft  fee for the 
time where  Miss P was using this facility. Theres no evidence that the charges Miss P 
incurred were applied  outside of the accounts  terms and conditions.  And Im satisfied they 
were applied in accordance  with the information Santander provided Miss P. It follows  that I 
cant fairly ask Santander to refund  them.
Miss P also feels the fees shes been  charged  are unfair because Santander didnt send her 
a text message  indicating  her account was overdrawn as it had done  previously. She said if 
it had, shed have  credited  her account  with money  to cover the shortfall. Santander  accepts 
it didnt send Miss P a text here. But it isnt the banks responsibility to tell a customer how to 
manage their account. And I dont think I could fairly find that Santanders failure to send a 
text caused Miss P to incur the charges she did. 
I can see that Miss P withdrew money from her account using an ATM three times on 9 and 
10 February. The last two withdrawals were  made  the day before the cheque  debited her 
account. And following her third withdrawal her account balance  was overdrawn by around  
£1540. This was only £10 off her arranged  overdraft limit. I think  Miss P ought to reasonably 
have know that when she withdrew  funds  from her account. I say this because  had she 
checked her balance she could have avoided  the charges she later incurred. Its Miss Ps 
responsibility to monitor  and manage her account. She was using her account regularly so I 
think its reasonable for her to have been  aware of the status of her account. 
Miss P also thinks the charges she has incurred are unfair because Santander waived them  
previously. Santander  accepts  it made  a one off goodwill refund of charges that were  
correctly applied to Miss Ps account  in the past.  But it doesnt feel able to refund the fees 
that are the subject  of Miss Ps complaint. 
As I think  Santander has applied these fees correctly I cant  fairly ask it to refund them  on 
this occasion.  And Im persuaded that Santanders  past goodwill refund  demonstrates that it 
has acted fairly towards Miss P when  she has incurred charges previously. I can also see 
Ref: DRN98335263evidence that its tried to help Miss P by explaining to her how she could avoid  such  charges 
again. 
Miss P has made reference to press  reports of Santander refunding  unarranged  overdraft  
charges after failing to send text messages. But as our investigator  explained  this service 
considers complaints on an individual basis and its not our role to comment  on the wider 
industry issues Miss P has raised.
For the reasons  set out above, Im satisfied that Santander acted fairly and reasonably and it 
wouldnt be fair to ask it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9833526