K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs A held with Preferred Mortgages Limited 
until late 2017, when  they sold their property  to a housing association (from whom they now 
rent it) and paid the mortgage off. Theyre unhappy with how Preferred treated them  and with 
the fees and charges it added to their mortgage balance when they were in long-term  
financial difficulties.
background 
By way of a jurisdiction  decision in December 2019,  I explained, with reasons, why our remit 
to consider Mr and Mrs As complaint was confined to the material covered in a final decision 
Preferred issued in July 2018. Briefly,  this was:
fees and charges added to the mortgage  account between 29 August 2017 and the 
redemption in October 2017;  and
Preferreds treatment  of Mr and Mrs A generally  as consumers in financial difficulty.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and set out his findings  in July 2020.  He identified 
£283.30 of fees and charges applied to the mortgage account during the relevant period; he 
wasnt persuaded any of them had been levied unfairly. On the second element of the 
complaint, for the most part, the investigator  thought  Preferred had treated Mr and Mrs A 
fairly over the years, given the difficult circumstances that prevailed from time to time.  But he 
identified a couple of customer service issues where  he considered Preferred came up short. 
For these, the investigator recommended Preferred pay Mr and Mrs A £50 in compensation.
Preferred accepted the investigators recommendations and agreed  to the proposed  
settlement. Mr and Mrs A have  asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
They havent  made new arguments  in support  of their case; and nor has the local authority 
department acting as their representative. But Mr and Mrs A have provided a letter from 
Mr As GP detailing his extensive health  issues. I dont reveal  those here, out of respect for 
Mr As privacy.
my findings
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion,  and when we should 
proceed to determine  a complaint. 
To ensure theres no ambiguity, this decision deals solely  with the matters dealt with in 
Preferreds final response from July 2018.  Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same  overall conclusions as the investigator, and for much 
the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN90985442The fees and charges  were able to consider only cover a brief period  up the redemption in 
October 2017, and all of them are fees that the mortgage contract  allowed Preferred to 
apply. That leaves me to consider whether they were applied  fairly. Given the 
circumstances, I find that they were;  the reason being that that they were,  primarily, costs 
incurred by solicitors Preferred appointed in the spring  of 2017 to initiate litigation.  The 
appointment wasnt unreasonable in itself,  given the payment  history  at that point, and the 
fees were proportionate  for the work  involved.  The remaining charges were  normal  
administrative items related to the mortgage  redemption.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A found the attention from Preferred about  their mortgage 
unwelcome and stressful to deal with. But, for the most part, I agree  with the investigator that 
Preferred has, generally speaking,  acted  fairly  and reasonably. Thats  not to say it always  
got things right. But everything has a context.  Engaging  with borrowers who are in arrears 
and/or financial  hardship is an organic process  thats permitted under the mortgage contract 
and the regulatory framework.  Its not an exact science and its inevitable in any human 
endeavour that mistakes will happen  from time to time. 
Here, however, the occasional misjudgements that prompted the investigator to recommend 
a modest award  of compensation are significantly outnumbered and outweighed by the 
occasions where Preferred showed flexibility with Mr and Mrs As changing situation, even 
as the arrears gradually worsened over time.
In particular there were  times when Preferred agreed  to hold recovery action in abeyance  
pending receipt of information about  Mr As health.  On another  occasion,  in 2015, it agreed 
to waive  an arrears fee that had been  fairly charged. This was after Mr and Mrs A treated a 
redress payment Preferred made for an unrelated matter as partly  covering that months 
regular payment. They reduced their contribution for that month  accordingly,  thus breaking a 
payment arrangement.
The above  points arent in any way intended  as a comprehensive list; theyre merely 
illustrative examples  among several  more of Preferred helping  a couple who were in trouble 
where it might have shown less empathy  than it did. As for the times Preferred got things  
wrong, not every mistake causes substantive detriment  to the customer  or invalidates  the 
lenders broader  actions to deal with the outstanding arrears. 
Looking at everything that has happened  (within the parameters permitted by my jurisdiction 
decision) I share the investigators view that for the most  part, Preferred didnt treat 
Mr and Mrs A unfairly. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part only; in full and final settlement, I direct  Preferred Mortgages 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs A £50. I make  no other  order, award or direction. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90985443
Ref: DRN9098544