K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that he applied to NewDay Ltd for a credit card that earned retailer points 
but that he was issued  with a card which didnt earn retailer points.
background
Mr E applied for a  credit card which was advertised  as earning points with a retailer. When  
he received his card and started spending  money  on it, he noticed  that he wasnt earning  
retailer points. He contacted NewDay who told him that the card hed been issued with didnt 
earn points  and suggested  that he apply again.
Mr E is unhappy because:
He doesnt  feel the advertising was clear
He believes he applied for one card and was issued with another
He was given  incorrect information  by NewDay
To resolve  his complaint  Mr E wants compensation.
During the investigation process, NewDay acknowledged that it had provided  incorrect  
information to Mr E when  he contacted them to query why he wasnt earning  points. It 
offered to pay compensation of £80 to Mr E.
Our investigator felt that the offer of compensation was fair. Mr E didnt agree so Ive been 
asked to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advertising
Mr E says the credit card was advertised as earning retail points. Ive looked  at the retailers  
website, which was where Mr E first saw the card advertised and clicked through  to apply, 
and I can see that two different cards are offered.  One is advertised as earning retail  points 
and the other is not. Im satisfied  that the differences between the two cards  are clearly set 
out and that theres enough information to enable customers  to choose which card to apply 
for. Because  of this, Im unable to say that the advertisements  are misleading.
Application
Mr E says he applied for the card which earned points but was issued with the card which 
didnt earn points.
Ive reviewed the data from when  Mr E applied for the card.  This shows  that he applied  for 
the card which  didnt earn points. I appreciate that Mr E intended to apply for the car which 
earned points but the data shows he didnt do this. Therefore  Im unable  to say that NewDay  
made an error, because  it issued  the card that Mr E applied for. 
Ref: DRN99925212Customer service
When Mr E contacted NewDay to ask why he hadnt  earned  points  it told him he would earn 
points. This was incorrect information because the card issued to Mr E doesnt earn points. 
NewDay has acknowledged  that it made  an error here and has offered compensation of £80.
Mr E says he spent money  on the credit card in anticipation of earning points. He says he 
could have spent  the money on other  cards  and benefitted from other incentives such as 
cashback. Ive seen evidence of how much  Mr E spent on the NewDay  card but I havent 
been provided with any information  about other cards which  Mr E holds together  with the 
terms and conditions of any cashback  or similar offers. Because of this, Im unable to 
conclude that Mr E wouldve received cashback.
Taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im satisfied that the offer of £80 
compensation is fair and reasonable and I wont be asking NewDay  to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9992521