K821x#15complaint
Ms Q is unhappy about a default which NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, registered on her 
credit record.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. For 
the reasons I set out, I concluded that Aqua had not reasonably registered a default  against 
Ms Qs credit  file. I thought the registration of the default caused  Ms Q trouble and upset 
which could have been avoided. I proposed that Aqua  remove  the default, recall the debt 
and pay Ms Q £200 by way of compensation. I felt the conclusions reached by my colleague, 
Anna Jackson in a Provisional Decision  (the Provisional Decision) issued in May 2019  on 
the matter of a chargeback issue was fair in the circumstances.  
I invited Ms Q and Aqua  to let me have any further  evidence or augments  they wanted  me to 
consider before making my final decision.  Both parties responded to the provisional decision. 
Ms Q said in summary:
-The compensation for the matter  of the chargeback did not fully reflect  the amount of 
times she needed to contact Aqua.  
-In the background section of the provisional  decision, the amount she had paid to a firm 
called A in June  2016  was less than the amount quoted.
-She did not receive the default notice issued by Aqua in November 2016.
-Aqua formed verbal contracts with her stating if they had made  a mistake they would 
remove the default and she agreed  to give them more time in return.
-The overall compensation  should be higher for the delays on Aquas part in responding 
to this service and for the impact the default  had on her business. 
Aqua said in summary:
-They would  not hold their collections process  while an investigation  was ongoing.
-Ms Q had broken  the terms of their arrangement and repeatedly missed payments so 
the default was registered correctly.
-They told Ms Q about the impact withholding payment  would have on her credit file.
-The relationship between them and Ms Q had broken down prior to the disputed  
transaction to A.
-During a phone call of March 2017, Ms Q said she would call back  in two weeks  to make 
a payment but she did not do this  which emphasised  the breakdown in the relationship.
-There has been no further impact since the Provisional Decision  of May 2019 to warrant  
the additional £200 compensation.
-Interest, fees and charges applied in November  and December 2016 had already been 
refunded in accordance with the Provisional Decision.
-As a responsible lender they are obliged to record an accurate reflection of the 
payment history.
Aqua also provided  a snapshot of Ms Qs credit record to show  that the default recorded  by 
them was not the only adverse information  on her credit record and this alone would have 
had minimal  impact on her credit record. 
Ref: DRN95854412I shared this information  with Ms Q who disputed the legitimacy  of the screenshot provided 
by Aqua and felt this could have been fabricated. Ms Q offered to provide me with her 
personal login details for a credit reference agency  website so that I could access her credit 
record. I declined and explained that Ms Q had a number of opportunities to provide her 
credit record  information  and I accepted her choice not to provide this information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision. 
I do not intend to outline  and address all of the individual points raised  by Aqua and Ms Q as 
my provisional decision does cover some  of those points. I acknowledge some of Ms Qs 
concern with the Provisional Decision but I do not intend to comment on those specific  
concerns as they are not about the substance  of the decision I have made. I have  also noted 
the evidence Ms Q provided in relation to the June 2016 payment to A, this was £197.33 and 
not £244.96 quoted  in the provisional decision. This does not have  a material  impact  on the 
overall complaint  because  this amount is not in dispute.
I did however note that the disputed payment to A was £244.92 not £244,96 quoted  in the 
background of my provisional decision.
I acknowledge Aquas points but it cannot be denied that Ms Q withheld making a payment  
towards her account when she disputed the balance of it. She was not initially  aware of the 
disputed transaction  to A and was led to believe  by Aqua  that the balance  of her account  
had increased  as a result  of interest and charges applied  to it. This prompted Ms Q to withhold 
payment as she wanted to challenge  what she felt was unfair interest and charges.  When 
Aqua talked through transactions that had been  made by Ms Q, it prompted her to dispute the 
payment to A and this was roughly  the amount her credit limit had been exceeded by. Ms Q 
agreed to make a payment once  the matter had been resolved   which  seemed  to be largely 
accepted by Aqua over the telephone.  It is unfortunate it took a long time for that matter  to be 
resolved but it was concluded that Ms Q should not have been  held liable  for that payment and 
it has since been refunded to the account. I do think if this matter had been resolved sooner, 
Ms Q would have resumed making payments  and this is based on her past account  conduct. 
I do not agree the relationship between Aqua and Ms Q had broken down prior to the 
disputed transaction  to A. Ms Q was in financial difficulties and Aqua arranged a short  term 
repayment plan to assist her  she adhered to the plan and successfully  completed  it. 
Aquas assistance  allowed Ms Q to resume the use of her credit facility  with them. 
So I cannot say this constituted a breakdown of their relationship  and I would expect any 
responsible lender to assist a customer in financial difficulties.
I have noted the letters  Aqua sent Ms Q about  the terms of her repayment plans and that 
regular statements were  also sent to her. But some of the conversations  Aqua had over the 
phone with Ms Q were misleading. Aqua seemed  to accept  Ms Qs reasons for withholding  
payment until December 2016  when they made it clear that Ms Q needed to make  
payments towards  her account.  However, the matter  of the disputed  payment to A was still 
ongoing up until the point Ms Q contacted  this service  about her complaint. So I do not think 
this was handled very well on Aquas part and I do think some of the misleading  statements 
made by their staff contributed to the misunderstanding on Ms Qs part. While Aqua stated it 
would not hold their collections process  during an investigation, I have not found that they 
made this clear to Ms Q during telephone  conversations with her.
Ref: DRN95854413I also accept there  was confusion between Ms Q and Aqua when it came to the signed  
declaration relating to the disputed payment  to A. I appreciate  Ms Q highlighted the number 
of times she needed to speak to Aqua in relation to this matter. But some of the calls made 
by Aqua were  in relation  to arranging a payment for the arrears  or offering a repayment  plan 
 not solely  the disputed  transaction to A. But Im satisfied £50 and a refund of interest  and 
charges while  the payment to A remained on Ms Qs account  was a fair way to compensate 
Ms Q for Aquas handling of things.
When a new repayment plan was set up in December 2016, Ms Q satisfied the requirements 
of the default notice  issued to her in November 2016  and Aqua restructured the arrears and 
her payments as a result. It is not disputed that Ms Q made and missed some  payments of 
that new plan.  But I have seen evidence that explains  Ms Q was going through  a very 
difficult time during  that period - albeit she did not tell Aqua  about the full extent of the issues 
she was having.  
Aqua and Ms Q have  given different accounts of what  was discussed in the March  2017 call. 
Aqua stated that Ms Q was due to call them  back with another  payment in two weeks. Ms Q 
stated Aqua were  due to call her back after they resolved the matter of the disputed 
transaction to A. I think both accounts  are correct and I will explain why.
Ms Q was in a repayment plan and at the time she spoke to Aqua, payments towards that 
plan were overdue. She made a payment to account for two of the missed payments, so it is 
plausible that she would  have told Aqua that she would call them back shortly  to make the 
next payment.  Aqua  were  also in receipt of Ms Qs signed declaration so it is equally 
plausible they told Ms Q they would get back to her once the disputed transaction to A was 
resolved. I had previously  invited Aqua  to provide a copy of this call to help me understand 
what was discussed.  Aqua  did not provide this call, so on balance,  I think  both parties were 
due to get back in touch  with one another. I am not of the view that the parties lack of 
following up demonstrated a breakdown  in the relationship. I see this more as a 
misunderstanding of the next steps, which has been a common theme between the parties 
since the disputed  transaction to A was raised.  
In any event, Aqua did not send a new default notice when the new position of default arose. 
For the default to have  been fairly registered, Aqua should have sent a new notice of default 
detailing what Ms Q needed to do to remedy  the breach outlined. Instead,  Aqua registered 
the default against Ms Qs credit record without giving her the opportunity  to put things right. 
From a fair and reasonable stand point, it would have been reasonable for Aqua to tell Ms Q 
they intended to default her account.  If they had - based on what I have seen from Ms Q 
when this happened before - I think she would have complied with their request. 
Prior to issuing my provisional decision I had not had sight  of Ms Qs credit record  so I did 
not conclude on the wider  impact Ms Q described the default to have had on her business. 
The evidence provided by Aqua shows that Ms Q had other  adverse information  on her 
credit record. I acknowledge Ms Qs concerns that this could have been fabricated  but I have 
no reason to believe this to be the case,  so I do not doubt the legitimacy of this information. 
And Ms Q had been clear that she did not want to share her full credit record  information 
with this service, so I have no cause  to dispute  the information provided  by Aqua.
In light of this information,  I do not intend  to increase  the award  I set out in my provisional 
decision. I do believe the default was registered  by Aqua incorrectly and they relied on a 
default notice  issued in November 2016  that had already been  remedied in accordance with 
Ref: DRN95854414the terms of that notice.  Given the severe  impact a default has on a credit record, I think it 
would have impacted Ms Q. But I cannot  agree, with any certainty, that this was the only 
reason Ms Qs business was impacted in the way she described as she did have other 
adverse information  on her credit record at the time.  So I do not intend to increase the award.
I appreciate Ms Qs concern that Aqua  has not co-operated with our services investigation 
and has delayed her case moving  forward. As a result she feels  the compensation  award 
should be increased. I do not find that Aqua has not complied with this services  time limits to 
warrant a direction for a payment. There have been  delays on Aquas part and they have not 
provided all of the information requested but they have responded to this service  on time and 
requested extensions when they needed  more time. Their failure to provide  some 
information has not been material  to the outcome I have reached. When I have not had a 
complete picture  of the events, I have been able to make a decision on what I think was 
most likely to have happened at the time. This service also has the discretion  to extend time 
limits  so I do not intend to make an award on this point.  
I would like to take this opportunity to remind Aqua of their duty to be positive and 
sympathetic to customers in financial difficulty. So I would  expect  them to treat Ms Q fairly 
when arranging repayment of the outstanding  debt.  Ms Q is also reminded that she is 
required to co-operate with Aqua  when  arranging payment of this debt. Should a suitable 
arrangement not be reached,  Aqua would be entitled to start the default  process.
While I realise  this is not the outcome  either Aqua or Ms Q were hoping for, I confirm  my 
provisional decision. 
Aqua has already refunded the disputed payment to A, the associated interest and charges 
relating to it and £50 compensation set out in the Provisional  Decision. They should provide 
Ms Q with a statement evidencing  the refunds made, so I make  no further finding on this point. 
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that Aqua, trading as NewDay Ltd, should:
Refund the interest,  over limit and late payment charges applied to Ms Qs account  in 
November 2016  and December 2016  and rework  the account to take into consideration 
any additional  interest and charges caused  by these fees.
Remove the default recorded  on Ms Qs credit record.
Recall Ms Qs account from the third party and contact Ms Q to arrange repayment of 
the outstanding  balance.
Pay Ms Q £200 to recognise the trouble and upset this matter would have had on her. 
This is in addition  to the compensation already awarded  in the Provisional  Decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95854415copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms Q is unhappy  about a default which NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua,  registered  on her credit record.
background
My colleague,  Ombudsman  Anna Jackson, issued a Provisional Decision on 3 May 2019 (the 
Provisional Decision) explaining that she was minded to uphold the complaint in part and setting out 
her reasons for reaching those provisional  conclusions. For the sake of completeness, Ill repeat  the 
background section of the Provisional Decision  here:
In October  2016, Ms Q contacted Aqua to make a payment towards her credit card account. She 
says Aqua informed her that she had exceeded her credit  limit due to a payment of £244.96 made  in 
September 2016, to a company I will refer to as A.
Ms Q says she explained  to Aqua that she made a payment to A amounting to £244.96 but, this was 
in June 2016.  Because  of this, a chargeback was raised on the basis that the September 2016 
transaction was fraudulent. Aqua also sent Ms Q a statutory declaration to complete. Due to issues 
relating to the statutory declaration and obtaining evidence from A, the disputed  transaction value was 
credited and re-debited from Ms Qs account a number of times. But, once these  issues were finally 
resolved in March 2017, Aqua concluded that the disputed  transaction was genuine and declined Ms 
Qs chargeback  claim.
During the above period, no payments were made to Ms Qs account. So, on 7 November 2016, Aqua  
issued Ms Q a default  notice  and subsequently registered a default against her on 30 June 2017.
Unhappy with this, Ms Q referred  her complaint to our service. She said 
Aqua should remove  the default  because she didnt  receive the default  notice and in any event 
the default would be for the incorrect  amount because of the disputed  transaction
her account should  be correctly readjusted
she should be refunded the disputed transaction value plus any interest and charges  resulting from it
she should be compensated for the impact Aquas  actions have had on her
One of our investigators upheld  the complaint. In relation to the chargeback, he said he wasnt 
persuaded that the September  2016 transaction was a genuine one. So, he said Aqua should remove 
this transaction from Ms Qs statement; refund this amount including any related  charges  and interest;  
and pay Ms Q £50.00 compensation for the trouble and upset she experienced.
In relation to the default, the investigator said Aqua should  remove it for the following  reasons 
the default only gave Ms Q 21 days to make payment instead of 28 days
the default itself was registered seven months after the notice was issued
Ms Q wouldve  caught up with payments had the disputed transaction  not been on her account
the default was disproportionate in the circumstances
Ms Q agreed  with the investigators findings. But, Aqua only partially agreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review things. It accepted that the dates  provided by A relating to the disputed 
transaction were questionable, and so agreed to refund Ms Q £244.96 plus any related  interest which  
accrued during the period the payment remained on Ms Qs account. 
In relation to the default, Aqua said 
Ms Q already had a significant balance before  the disputed  transaction
Ms Q was made fully aware of the consequences if she didnt bring  her account  up to date 
Ref: DRN95854416it was Mrs Qs responsibility to ensure she made minimum monthly payments in line with the 
terms and conditions  of her account
Aqua said that ultimately, Ms Q used the disputed transaction as an excuse to withhold payment  because  
she didnt want to pay the interest  and charges that had accrued on her account since June 2016.
The Provisional Decision went  on to explain that the Ombudsman intended  to uphold Ms Qs
complaint in part and directed Aqua to:
refund Ms Q £244.96  plus any related  interest which  accrued during the period the payment 
remained on Ms Qs account
pay Ms Q £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in connection  to the 
disputed payment
change the date of default  registration  from 30 June 2017 to 28 November 2016 and refund  
Ms Qs account with any interest  and charges  accrued during that time.
amend the default amount to take account of the refunded  payment of £244.96 plus interest 
mentioned above
As the parties are aware, the complaint has now been  passed  to me to determine.
since the Provisional Decision
Ms Q disagreed with the outcome and felt strongly that Aqua made a mistake with registering a 
default on her credit  record. She disputed  the date the repayment plan was set up and said this 
happened in November 2016 not December 2016. Ms Q also stated Aqua had acted  unlawfully  and 
were purposefully withholding and/or  tampering with the evidence it supplied to our service.  She 
explained the default was preventing  her from obtaining the credit she needed for her business  and 
was seeking damages of £5,000.
Aqua accepted the Provisional Decision  and actioned all four bullet points outlined by the 
Ombudsman.
responses to my enquiries
Following my involvement, both parties have provided  further evidence. Ms Q requested  that we 
consider the interest  and charges applied  to her account following the setup  of an earlier  repayment 
plan in December 2015/January 2016. I explained this was a new issue and any new issues would 
usually be considered as a separate  matter. But I asked Aqua  if it consented to our consideration of this 
new issue as part of this complaint. Aqua didnt object, so I will consider this in my provisional decision.
I asked Ms Q to provide a full copy of her current credit file, so that I could consider the impact the 
default had on her and how much weight  I could place on the default being the reason she was 
prevented from obtaining the credit she needed  for her business.  I also asked for an explanation as to 
why there were gaps in payment and communication  on her part. And finally, I asked for evidence that 
Ms Q had funds to make  a payment in November  2016.
Ms Q sent the following:
Evidence to show she had the funds  to make the payment she said she could  make in 
November 2016;
Information showing  the improvement to her credit score following Aquas backdating of the 
default as a result of the Provisional Decision;
Ms Q stated  she was reluctant to provide her full credit file due to its sensitive  nature and she felt it 
was more important  to see the individual impact  of the adverse  information  Aqua recorded in isolation;
Evidence to show she was going through a very difficult time with her ex-partner  in 2017 - which 
had police involvement.
Ref: DRN95854417Aqua sent the following:
Correspondence  sent to Ms Q following the setup of both repayment plans;
Contact  notes from November 2016 to October 2017;
Confirmation that the repayment plans  were agreed in February 2016 and December  2016 and 
that when  a plan is agreed, customers cant spend on their accounts;
Evidence to show Ms Q was sent monthly paper statements;
Confirmation that arrears were restructured  following  the setup  of the repayment plan in 
December 2016 and acceptance that the default should  have been backdated following  the 
Provisional Decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what  I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed 
to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think  I need to comment  on it to reach what  I 
think is the fair outcome  here.
In the absence  of some  information, Ive had to base my findings on recorded  notes provided by 
Aqua, Ms Qs recollection  of the conversations  she had with it and what I think was most  likely to have 
happened at the time.
Ill start with the first repayment plan set up in February  2016. I appreciate Ms Q feels the plan was 
set up earlier and Ive reviewed the notes of conversations Ms Q had with Aqua from November 2015.  
Its clear Ms Q had conversations with Aqua in December 2015 and January 2016. It looks as though 
Ms Q made promises to pay and explained she was having a difficult  month. Aqua offered help in the 
form of a repayment  plan early on but Ms Q declined this due to the impact it would  have on her credit 
file. In February 2016, Aqua got in touch with Ms Q and a repayment plan was put in place following a 
review of her income and outgoings.
Prior to the repayment plan being agreed, I dont intend to tell Aqua  to refund  any interest and 
charges applied  to Ms Qs account. The terms and conditions of the account  detail the scenarios in 
which interest and charges  would be applied  and what charges were applicable when payments were 
missed. So Im satisfied  Aqua acted  in accordance with the terms and conditions of Ms Qs account 
when applying  interest and charges to it. Im also satisfied it gave her the option of a repayment plan 
early on, which Ms Q declined.
We would expect  Aqua  to be positive and sympathetic  to customers in financial difficulty  but 
customers would also need to be open  to assistance. Ive seen that when Ms Q spoke to Aqua about 
her financial difficulties  in February  2016 and discussed  her income and expenditure details, a 
repayment plan was agreed. A letter dated 16 February 2016 to
Ms Q stated the following  key information:
We can confirm  that we have set up an informal payment arrangement for £43.14 per month  with the 
interest rate reduced to 0.000% per annum.
The arrangement will remain in place until further notice or until your financial circumstances change. 
We will let the credit  reference agencies know that you are on a payment arrangement and this may 
affect your ability to obtain credit
As your payment  is now lower than the minimum  amount required to satisfy  the terms of your credit 
card agreement your account  will accrue arrears and this will be reflected on your monthly 
statements. Your account may, in due course, be defaulted and we may register a default against you 
with the credit reference  agencies which will stay on your file for six years and which  may make  it 
more difficult for you to get credit in the future.
Ref: DRN95854418If a payment is not received by the due date we will review your account, which  may result in the 
arrangement being cancelled, charges being applied  and the removal of your reduced interest rate.
Your account  may be reviewed within 4 months. In the meantime  you must contact us to let us know if 
your circumstances change
I think  this letter is clear in explaining the informal  arrangement, along with the consequences of it not 
being adhered to.
Looking at Ms Qs statements from February 2016 I can see that interest was suspended on the 
account as agreed and Ms Q made the following payments:
£43.14 February  2016
£15 - 15 March 2016
£78.20  14 March 2016 (listed as fee refund)
£65.90  6 May 2016
£1,154.92  1 June  2016
An over limit charge  of £12 was applied to the account  in February 2016. I dont think  this was fair 
given that a plan had been agreed and Ms Q made her first payment in accordance  with that plan. 
Aqua provided evidence to show this fee was refunded to Ms Q in March 2016.
I can also see from the notes that Ms Q had a conversation with Aqua on 1 June 2016 and it was 
confirmed the plan had come to an end. Ms Q was advised of her next minimum payment due date 
and was told she could  resume  using her account.  Statements confirm that Ms Q did resume using 
her account  shortly after this conversation. Aqua stated that it wouldnt allow customers  to use an 
account whilst on a repayment  plan. Its clear this is the case having reviewed Ms Qs account  
activity, so Im satisfied  the plan had come to an end.
It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Ms Q to have benefitted from using the account on an interest free 
basis when she was able to resume her minimum contractual payments. I think  Aqua treated Ms Q 
fairly and was clear about how the repayment plan would work. Im satisfied Aqua suspended interest 
and charges in accordance  with the agreed repayment plan. And the one charge applied during the 
period of the repayment plan, was refunded. So I wont be telling Aqua  to refund  any further interest 
and charges towards the account up until the point of the fraudulent dispute,  which Ill now move on to.
disputed transaction and default
Ms Q continued to make substantial payments towards her account until September  2016 where no 
payment was made. The notes  state that Ms Q spoke  with Aqua  in September and explained she had 
an unexpected bill/expense. It was agreed that if Ms Q made a payment  by 19 September  2016 a 
refund of charges  would  be applied to the account.  As no payment was made and no alternative 
agreement was arranged, Im not satisfied any refunds of interest or charges are due for the month of 
September 2016.
In October 2016 Ms Q called Aqua  to say she was making a payment online and noticed a transaction  
she was disputing.  The disputed  transaction was sent to a company Ill refer to as A and it was 
debited from Ms Qs account on 29 September 2016. Aqua agreed to raise  a chargeback  a process  
by which settlement disputes are resolved  between card issuers and merchants under the relevant 
card scheme.
Ms Q spoke with Aqua  on 20 October 2016 about the outstanding minimum  payment due and 
explained she was self-employed  and was waiting for money to come in. The notes  state Ms Q said 
she would make  a payment  by 26 October 2016.  I dont  see that a payment was made in October, so 
I dont intend to tell Aqua  to refund interest and charges that were correctly applied to the account for 
this particular month.
Ref: DRN95854419Aqua required Ms Q to return a declaration in relation  to the disputed transaction  to A. Over the next 
several months Ms Q told Aqua that she had returned the declaration, with Aqua disputing  receipt of 
it. This resulted in the disputed  transaction to A being temporarily credited and re-debited from Ms Qs 
account a number of times.
The default notice sent to Ms Q on 7 November 2016 required her to pay arrears  of £258.97 or make 
satisfactory proposals to do so within 28 days, or by 28 November  2016 as stated. The dates on the 
notice were factually incorrect as it gave Ms Q 21 days not 28 days  to take action but the spirit  of 
Aquas intention was clear,  which was, Ms Q needed to settle the arrears or agree  an alternative 
arrangement soon.
Ms Q spoke with Aqua  in November 2016 and Ive listened to a call of 13 November 2016 specifically.  
Ms Q questioned an earlier  conversation she had with a staff member in which she queried  why her 
balance was so high and was told it was due to interest and charges.
This wasnt quite correct.  Ms Q exceeded her limit as a result of an undisputed transaction  on 
1 September 2016. The disputed transaction to A took her further over her limit but it wasnt the cause 
of Ms Q exceeding her limit.
Ms Q made it clear and has evidenced that she had the funds to make a large  payment in
November 2016. She explained to Aqua that she would make the payment once the matter had been 
resolved. I dont find that Aqua made clear to Ms Q that the action she was taking wasnt acceptable. 
Aqua shouldve  been  clearer about  Ms Qs obligation  to continue making  her minimum  payment while 
the disputed transaction to A was investigated.
I dont think Ms Qs intention was to avoid making a payment  towards  the account as she was in 
touch with Aqua between November 2016 and December  2016. I also dont think this represented a 
breakdown in Ms Q and Aquas relationship, which is what  the default intended  to signify. But I do 
believe Aquas automated  systems pushed Ms Qs account  through  its normal processes as no 
payments were being made. But there was no recognition  of the conversations Ms Q was having  with 
Aqua and it wouldve been reasonable for any recovery  action to have  been placed  on hold until Aqua 
was in a position to give Ms Q accurate  information.
To be clear,  I dont think Ms Q was correct to withhold a payment in its entirety.  I appreciate
Ms Q felt the disputed transaction to A meant that her contract with Aqua was invalid. But this wasnt 
the case. The majority of Ms Qs balance  was undisputed and there wasnt  a provision in Ms Qs 
terms and conditions  that permitted her to withhold  a payment because of a disputed transaction  to a 
third party  in this case, A.
However, I do think it was Aquas obligation to provide Ms Q with clear and accurate information 
explaining why shed exceeded her balance  and that she was required to continue making  her 
minimum payment  whilst the transaction to A was disputed. And I dont see that Aqua provided  
sufficient information to Ms Q until its letter of 6 December  2016.
Shortly after this letter, Ms Q spoke to Aqua to explain  she was experiencing financial difficulty and a 
repayment plan was arranged. A letter was sent to Ms Q on 21 December  2016 and the wording of 
the letter  mirrored the wording I quoted earlier  in my decision regarding a letter sent to Ms Q on 16 
February 2016. The arrears  were restructured and Ms Q was asked  to make minimum payments of 
£43.49 per month. Interest and charges  were  suspended but Ive seen an over limit fee was applied to 
Ms Qs account in December 2016.
Its clear there was confusion around the disputed transaction to A, both on Aqua  and Ms Qs part. I 
think a reasonable step to take on Aquas  part wouldve been to suspend interest, charges  and 
recovery action until it could provide Ms Q with a clear explanation about what had occurred or until 
the matter had been  resolved.
Ref: DRN958544110Aqua confirmed  that Ms Qs arrears were  restructured following the repayment plan of December 2016. 
Because of this, Im not persuaded that Aqua  can rely on the default  notice of 7 November 2016 to 
justify defaulting Ms Q in June 2017. If Ms Q was in a new position of default  following the restructuring 
of her arrears,  Aqua  ought to have sent a new default notice. Aqua confirmed it didnt do this.
As a reminder, the default  notice of November 2016 required Ms Q to pay the arrears  or make 
satisfactory proposals to do so within 28 days. Ms Q was in touch with Aqua following  this notice and 
was led to believe the disputed transaction to A was the cause of the problem and once this problem 
was resolved, she promised to make a payment.  Following  the clarity provided  by Aqua in December  
2016, a mutually acceptable  repayment plan was agreed.
This didnt signify the breakdown of a relationship,  or a lack of intention  on Ms Qs part to make a 
payment towards the account. Ive seen  that Ms Q missed the first two payments of the new 
repayment plan and made a payment of £86.98 in March  2017. She advised  Aqua that she would  
make a further payment  of £86.98 in two weeks and stated she was going through  a divorce and 
hadnt been home. Ms Q stated Aqua was due to get back in touch  with her as shed re-sent  the 
declaration in relation to the disputed  transaction to A.
No further  payment was made towards the account and there  was no further telephone contact 
between Ms Q and Aqua until October 2017  at which  point Ms Q complained about the disputed  
transaction to A and about the default recorded against her.
Ive seen that Ms Q was going through a very difficult time in 2017 but I dont see that Aqua were 
aware of the full extent of this. Given Aquas previous  offers to assist  Ms Q, I think it wouldve 
continued to assist  her if it was aware of the difficult  time she was having.
Having said this, Aqua  ought to have issued  Ms Q with a new default  notice, outlining the breach and 
what Ms Q needed to rectify by a specified date.  Given  that Ms Q got in touch with Aqua upon  receipt  
of the earlier default notice, I think she wouldve got in touch with
Aqua had it made it clear her credit  file would be severely  impacted with a default.
I appreciate the letter of 21 December 2016 stated:
Your account  may, in due course, be defaulted and we may register a default against you with the 
credit reference agencies which  will stay on your file for six years and which may make it more difficult 
for you to get credit in the future.
But this wasnt enough  for Aqua to apply a default to Ms Qs credit record. Given the impact a default 
has on a credit record, Aqua  needed  to have been clear  with Ms Q about what she needed do by 
when  whether that was to pay outstanding arrears or the entire  balance.  And
I dont dispute a default  recorded on Ms Qs credit record wouldve impacted  her.
However, in the absence of Ms Qs full credit file, Im not in a position to determine the consequential 
loss Ms Q has described as a result of the default applied  by Aqua. Thats because Im unable to 
determine whether this information was the only reason Ms Q was unable  to obtain the credit she 
needed for her business.  I dont doubt it wouldve contributed to a decision any lender was likely  to 
make. And Ive reviewed the impact the backdating  of the default following  The Provisional  Decision 
had. But a score alone isnt enough for me to determine that Aqua were responsible  for the difficulties  
Ms Q experienced  obtaining credit.
So Ive considered  the impact this had on Ms Q based on the information  I do have.
Ive taken into account of the length of time it took Ms Q to get back in touch  with Aqua  and that no 
payments have since been  made  towards the account. Ive also taken into account  the difficult time 
Ms Q was having but she also had obligations  to make payments towards  her account  or inform Aqua  
about any changes to her financial circumstances. I dont  see she did for an extended period of time.  
And I think Ms Q couldve mitigated some of trouble she went through  given that Aqua had previously 
assisted her in times  of difficulty.
Ref: DRN958544111Im aware Ms Qs account has been sold to a third party.  I intend to tell Aqua to recall the debt and get 
in touch with Ms Q to organise a repayment of the outstanding  balance.  As a reminder to Aqua, its 
still obliged to be positive  and sympathetic should Ms Q be experiencing  financial difficulty  and it 
should be clear about any future steps it intends to take should  this account  be in a position  of default 
in the future.
The disputed transaction to A has now been resolved with Aqua refunding Ms Qs account with the 
disputed transaction, along with associated interest and charges to. Aqua paid her £50 following the 
Provisional Decision. Im satisfied this was a fair way of resolving things  and taking into account  
Aquas handling of the matter, so I dont intend to make a further finding on this as Im satisfied this 
has now been  put right.
putting things  right
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further information I might receive from
Ms Q or from Aqua my provisional decision is that Im minded to uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right NewDay  Ltd should 
Refund the interest, over limit and late payment charges applied to Ms Qs account  in
November 2016 and December  2016 and rework the account to take into consideration any 
additional interest and charges caused by these fees.
Remove the default recorded on Ms Qs credit record.
Recall Ms Qs account  from the third party and contact her to arrange  repayment of the 
outstanding balance.
Pay Ms Q £200 to recognise the trouble and upset this matter wouldve had on her. This is in 
addition to the compensation already  paid.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Ms Qs complaint in part against NewDay Ltd.
Ref: DRN9585441