K821x#15Complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc revoked his credit card after his direct debit 
payment was cancelled without  his knowledge. This impacted upon his credit record  and 
affected his ability to apply for other  forms of credit.
Background
Mr J had a credit card with HSBC with a direct debit  set up to pay the balance off each month. 
But in January 2017, the direct debit  was cancelled which meant  the request for the payment 
was returned as unpaid. Mr J didnt realise  this, and he didnt use the card very often. He 
works abroad and there are times that he has limited access to his post or the internet. 
In October  2017, Mr J used his card to make  a purchase. But as the direct debit had been 
cancelled, this balance  wasnt  paid off. HSBC wrote  to Mr J about the overdue payment and 
the account arrears.
But HSBC  didnt receive a payment to the account,  and so it revoked Mr Js credit  card in 
February 2018. Mr J found out about the missed payments when he received his annual 
account summary.
Mr J complained and questioned  why his direct debit had been cancelled.  He said his credit 
record had been  affected by the missed payment markers and when  the credit card had 
been revoked.  He asked for this to be amended and for compensation, and for the credit  
card to be reissued  to him.
But HSBC  said that it didnt think it had made an error in the way it had dealt with Mr Js 
account, and his credit card had been  revoked in line with its procedures as no payment had 
been made to the account.  It said that the direct  debit had been  cancelled because of 
consecutive direct debit  reversals.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Js complaint and initially didnt  think  it should be 
upheld. He said that HSBC had attempted  to contact Mr J when  his direct debit was 
cancelled, and also about the arrears  on the account, so he thought  this shouldve altered 
Mr J that there was a problem. And, as payments  werent being made to the account, he 
didnt think HSBC should be required to amend the recording of this on Mr Js credit file. 
But Mr J didnt think this addressed the root cause  of the problem, which  was why the direct 
debit was cancelled.  He said hed let HSBC  know when  he would be abroad so whether he 
received its correspondence or not was a secondary  issue.
The investigator reconsidered the complaint and said that he couldnt see any evidence  to 
show that direct debits were returned, as HSBC had said in its final response letter. So he 
didnt think the direct debit  had been  cancelled correctly. He thought  this was an error which  
had led to the closure of Mr Js credit card account.
HSBC had said that it couldnt issue Mr J with a card for his now closed account and he 
would need to reapply. So the investigator said that HSBC should pay Mr J £100 in 
compensation and it should update  the details recorded on his credit file to remove any 
adverse information  from February 2017  until the account closure. 
Ref: DRN97562802HSBC said it would  accept the investigators  recommendation,  but Mr J did not believe the 
£100 compensation was enough  because of the time he spent  trying  to resolve the matter 
and as he felt hed been affected financially through the impact on his credit score. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive gone over all of the details of Mr Js credit card statements and account records  to try 
and establish  why his direct  debit mandate for the credit card was cancelled. From what  I 
understand, this was paid from his current account,  which was also with HSBC.
HSBC has said that there  were consecutive direct debit reversals  on Mr Js account  and this 
led to the cancellation of his instruction. However, this hasnt been shown on the information 
weve received from HSBC and I cant see any reference to this on Mr Js account 
statements. The direct  debit looks to have been successfully collected on 3 January 2017 
which paid the statement  balance from December 2016, and the January statement  says 
that payment  for it would be collected  on 6 February 2017.  However, the mandate had been  
cancelled by that time, so the payment wasnt collected and a late fee was incurred.
There was a period  of time where  the only payment appearing on Mr Js statement was a 
recurring one to a particular retailer  for the same amount each month. But I understand that 
these were refunded  to Mr J as part of a fraudulent transaction claim.  So, even though the 
billed balance wasnt being paid through this time as the direct debit had been cancelled,  
these amounts were  cleared through the refunds.
It seems  Mr J wanted and expected the direct debit  to continue, as this was how he manged 
his finances while abroad. Although there  looks to have been issues  with his credit  card at 
the time,  demonstrated  through the fraudulent transactions, HSBC has told us these 
wouldnt have affected the direct  debit mandate. 
While I accept that Mr Js circumstances  were  likely  to have made it difficult for him to 
become aware  that there was a problem with his direct debit, and he did let HSBC know of 
the times  he would be abroad,  I do think there were opportunities for him to realise the issue  
with his payments.  HSBC  took reasonable steps  to alert him to this by sending letters to his 
registered address.  And this information  about the arrears would also have been  available  to 
Mr J through his online banking, if he had access to the internet. 
Overall, I dont  think its clear what led to the direct debit being  cancelled. The advice 
notification relating to the time the direct debit  was returned as unpaid gives the reason as 
the transaction being declined. But the date of this was before the payment for February 
2017 was due to be collected.
So although  I cant be certain of the exact reason why the direct debit was cancelled in 
January 2017,  I think its reasonable to conclude that it was likely to have been an error 
which HSBC should put right. 
Because of the time since the credit card account was closed and Mr Js card expiry, the 
account cant be reactivated.  HSBC has said that Mr J is able to reapply for a credit  card,  if 
he wishes.
Ref: DRN97562803HSBC has agreed that it will update  Mr Js credit  history  to remove  any related adverse 
information recorded on his credit card account  back to February 2017 when the direct debit 
payments stopped. It has also agreed to pay Mr J £100 for the upset  and inconvenience  hes 
been caused through this situation.
I do appreciate that this is less than Mr J would like, and Ive taken  into account what  hes 
told us about the affect this had had on his credit rating and his ability  to get a mobile phone 
contract or a mortgage to buy a second property. However, having done this I think  that the 
£100 agreed by HSBC,  together  with the amendments to his credit history, represent a 
reasonable resolution in the particular  circumstances here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC Bank plc to amend Mr Js 
credit file to remove any related adverse  information  relating to this credit  card account from 
February 2017 to the accounts  closure. It should  also pay Mr J £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused.
Should Mr J wish to accept this, he should  provide HSBC with his bank  account  details or his 
correct postal address  for it to arrange to send him the payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020. 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9756280