K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the amount of compensation Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS)  offered her to 
resolve her payment protection insurance (PPI) complaint.
background
Ms B took out a loan for £7,500 with BoS in March 2004. The loan had PPI attached. And 
the PPI was paid for upfront by Ms B borrowing more. This type of policy  is called a single 
premium PPI policy.
Ms B complained to BoS that the PPI policy was mis-sold. BoS agreed  to settle Ms Bs
PPI complaint and offered Ms B compensation of £5,131.15 after tax. Its offer was to place 
Ms B in a position as if she hadnt taken PPI.
Unhappy with the offer, Ms B brought her complaint to our service. Ms B said that BoS, 
when she contacted them about the compensation amount, mentioned  something about  a 
regular premium policy also.  So Ms B thinks that while she has been compensated for the 
single premium PPI policy   she hasnt been refunded for a second  regular  premium  PPI 
policy.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. They  were  unsure as to how the confusion  arose  
about the regular premium policy, but they were satisfied that Ms Bs loan only had a single 
premium PPI policy attached. And having looked at BoSs offer,  they were  satisfied  the 
compensation was fair and had been  worked  out correctly.
Ms B remained unsure and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. So, as the 
matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to make a final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was there  more than one PPI policy? 
Ms B clearly received some information at some  point  that led her to consider that there may 
have been a regular premium policy in place  on top of the single premium  PPI policy  that 
was attached to her loan taken in 2004. 
I dont know the source  of the confusion, but I would  like to assure  Ms B, based  on what  Ive 
seen, the loan that was taken in 2004 only had a single premium PPI policy.  There wasnt  
any other PPI policy attached. 
I would also like to add that it is extremely rare that there would be more  than one policy 
protecting the repayments on a loan.  The reason being  a PPI policy is designed to meet  
the repayments of the loan in the event a consumer is unable  to work. So, by design, only 
one PPI policy is required. That said, I am mindful that there  can be administrative errors  
from time to time that can invariably lead to more than PPI policy  being  set up. But having 
looked at Ms Bs complaint Im satisfied that hasnt happened.
Ref: DRN91383712As Im satisfied there was only the one PPI policy and that it was a single premium  PPI 
policy, Ive gone  on to look at whether BoSs offer of compensation is fair.
BoSs offer of compensation
 
When a business  agrees  to settle  a PPI complaint, I would expect them  to, as far as 
possible, put the consumer back in the position  they would be in had they not taken out the 
PPI. 
With a single premium policy this generally means  refunding the PPI premium, refunding the 
interest charged on that premium and 8% simple interest to compensate the consumer for 
any time theyve been without that money.
Having looked  at what BoS has offered  its offer included everything I would expect to see 
when a single premium PPI policy has been mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Bank of Scotland plcs offer of compensation is fair. I understand that the amount has been 
paid, so it doesnt need to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9138371