K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the way that a claim under their home insurance 
policy was handled  by Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G). 
background
Mr and Mrs D made  a claim to L&G on 28 February 2018 after they discovered  a water leak 
at their home. It caused  damage in the dining room, kitchen and hallway.
L&G appointed a surveyor to investigate the claim.  It also appointed a drying company, an 
asbestos specialist  and a builder.
Mrs D complained to L&G about  the way the claim was handled.  In particular she said L&Gs  
builder shattered  a water pipe. It also damaged a gas pipe, causing a leak which  wasnt 
discovered for several weeks. They put asbestos material in a bag and left it under the 
stairs. There  were missed  appointments. Eventually  Mrs D asked for a cash  settlement 
because she said she no longer wanted the builders in her property.
L&G accepted that there  were various  issues with the repairs. It offered Mr and Mrs D £800 
compensation for its service failures. As Mr and Mrs D didnt think  that was enough, they 
complained to this service. The works  have now been finished.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He thought L&G should pay £1,500 compensation. 
As Mr and Mrs D didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  are well aware  of the history of this claim. In making an offer of compensation 
L&G has effectively accepted that it could  have handled this claim better. Ill look whether 
L&G treated  Mr and Mrs D fairly  in its settlement offer. Ill take into account the fact that a 
claim like this would always have caused Mr and Mrs D a degree of inconvenience. Ill look 
at the extent to which L&G made it worse than it needed to be and the effect  this had on 
Mr and Mrs D.
I agree  that Mr and Mrs D were badly  let down by L&G.  Ive seen photos of their living  
conditions and can see that its builder made a terrible mess and caused a lot of unnecessary 
damage which would have been very distressing for Mr and Mrs D. The worst failing was 
causing another water leak and fracturing the gas pipe underneath.  That led to a gas leak 
which wasnt discovered for about  six weeks. At that point the gas supply had to be cut off, 
leaving Mr and Mrs D and their family without water downstairs for several weeks  and no 
cooking facilities until L&G provided a portable  kitchen  and bathroom.
About five months  later in July 2018,  Mr and Mrs D were still left in a house with no kitchen, 
no water  downstairs, no flooring, skirting boards, doors or architraves in the dining room, 
entrance hall and kitchen.  Their family  room  floor had been lifted  with a channel  dug out, 
leaving the stored kitchen items covered in dust and dirt. I can appreciate that this would be 
very stressful for Mr and Mrs D, particularly as their daughter was sitting important exams in the 
Ref: DRN97183832middle of all of this. In short the whole process was chaotic and badly managed. Its not 
surprising Mr and Mrs D eventually felt they had to finish the works themselves rather than let 
L&G continue.
In addition,  Mr and Mrs D sent over quotes for the remedial work but there were further 
delays in agreeing them. As a result, Mr and Mrs D couldnt start work as soon as theyd 
have liked. Mrs D in particular spent  a lot of time chasing L&G and its contractors. There  
were also delays in making payments due under the policy. Mr and Mrs D say as a result  of 
that they had to borrow money from family to pay their contractors. That would have been 
embarrassing for them.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed  by this but overall  I think the sum of 
£1,500 recommended  by our adjudicator is appropriate to compensate  them for the trouble 
and upset theyve  suffered  as a result of L&Gs poor claim handling.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Legal & General  Insurance Limited  to pay a total sum of 
£1,500 to Mr and Mrs D for the trouble and upset its caused them less any amounts already 
paid in respect of this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9718383