K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC (Amtrust) hasnt compensated 
him for damage caused to his car, when  he claimed on his Vehicle Rescue Breakdown 
cover.
background
In 2018, Mr H lost his set of car keys and realised that his spare set was locked  in the boot 
of his car. He got in touch  with a third party (who  work with Amtrust) to arrange for a 
recovery agent to come and assist  Mr H in getting into his car.
Mr H says that when the recovery agent arrived, the technician didnt know how to get into 
the boot and that Mr Hs normal  garage  gave the recovery  agent instructions over the phone  
about how best to do this. Mr H tells us that the recovery agent didnt have the correct tools 
for the job and caused unnecessary damage  to the rear end of the car. The recovery  agent 
wasnt able to gain access to the boot and so said that the car would  need  to be taken to its 
garage. 
The recovery agent towed  the car to its garage  and charged Mr H £90 for the specialist 
equipment it used to do this. When Mr H collected his car the next day, the garage had 
managed to get into the boot, but Mr H says he noticed that considerable damage had been 
caused to the car in doing so. 
Mr H accepted that some damage would be caused to the car, given the procedure  that 
needed to take place  to break the lock on the boot. But he thought that much  of the damage 
was unnecessary. And this was due to the recovery agent not knowing how to carry out the 
procedure  and not having  the correct tools to do this. Because of this, Mr H sent the 
recovery agent a quote he received from his garage  for the repairs. 
Amtrust says it isnt responsible for paying the cost of the damage, as Mr H signed a waiver  
form provided by the recovery agent before the work took place. The waiver  says that it 
could not be held responsible for any damage  caused to the vehicle when the recovery  
agent forced entry to the boot. While Mr H accepts that he signed  the waiver,  he says that 
the extent of the damage to the car could have been  avoided,  and so it isnt fair that he 
should bear the cost of the repairs.
Our investigator thought Amtrust ought  to be liable  to pay for some  of the damage caused to 
the car. She also thought  Amtrust should refund  Mr H the £90 for the specialist equipment 
the recovery agent used to tow the car.
Amtrust didnt agree  with this. It said that the waiver  form should clear  it of being responsible 
for the damage.  And it didnt feel the technician who caused the damage was negligent 
when gaining access to the boot of the car. It also said that the technician was pressurised 
by Mr H to carry  out the actions necessary  to force entry to the boot.
Because Amtrust didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint  has been passed  to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
Ref: DRN90182242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint.
There is no dispute there was damage  caused to the boot of Mr Hs car when the recovery 
agent attempted to gain access to it. So I now need to decide  who should  be responsible for 
the cost of the repairs.
Mr H signed a waiver before the recovery agent tried to get in the boot of the car. The waiver  
says I authorise forcible  entry into the above vehicle at my own risk and expense. I also 
agree not to hold **third party** responsible for any damage incurred whilst doing so..
Mr H doesnt dispute signing this waiver  he accepts that the recovery agent would need to 
force entry to his car and that some damage would be caused. He says if the technician  had 
known how to carry out the procedure and had the correct  tools to do so, the damage could 
have been significantly  minimised.  Because of this, he feels its not fair for Amtrust to rely on 
the waiver to diminish its liability  to pay for the cost of repairs.
Mr H wrote to the recovery agent about the damage caused. It responded to say that the 
waiver makes it clear they cant  be held responsible  for the damage.  But the letter  also says,
you were  lucky I was away on holiday as otherwise I would have refused to allow  the  
technicians to do anything  and requested that you get a locksmith or others to effect entry
I dont think I can agree with the comment that Mr H was lucky  given the damage  caused 
to the car by the technician. But I do think this suggests that the job would have been better 
suited to a locksmith. So in my opinion, the technician shouldnt  have continued  to force  
entry.
Mr H has also provided us with a report from his own garage  which  says that the procedure 
could have been carried out without  causing  the damage that it did. And that the only 
damage that should have been  caused  by the procedure would be to the boot cable  and a 
small hole.  
Amtrust has said that the recovery agent  didnt want to attempt the job but was pressured  by 
Mr H to do so. I havent seen anything to support this comment. And Amtrust havent given 
me much detail about it either. Had the recovery agent not wanted to continue with the job 
then I wouldnt have  expected him not to do so - and to contact a more suitable  
tradesperson.
So yes, Mr H signed a waiver for any damage  caused to the car when the recovery  agent 
forced entry. But it seems to me that the damage  that should have been caused  by this 
procedure ought  to have been minimal   and not to the extent of the photos  Ive seen of 
Mr Hs car. Given what the recovery agent  has said, in that he would have told the technician 
not to continue with the job, it seems damage  could have been  minimised if a locksmith or a 
suitably qualified person had been  called. If the correct  person had been  used for the job, I 
think it would  have  been okay for Amtrust  to rely on this waiver. But as this wasnt  the case,  I 
dont think its fair or reasonable for Amtrust to rely on the waiver to diminish  its liability to 
pay for the damage.
Ref: DRN90182243Because of the above, Amtrust should compensate  Mr H for the cost of the repairs  for the 
additional damage caused.  Mr H has already paid £407.94 for the repairs  and so Amtrust 
should reimburse him this amount. Mr H has sent me evidence to show  that he paid for the 
boot cable and small hole separately, so Im satisfied that the £407.94  on the invoice  is for 
the additional damage caused. 
I also agree  with our investigator that Amtrust  should reimburse  Mr H the £90 he paid for 
specialist equipment to tow his car  given that it unlikely it would have  been  necessary to 
tow the car had a locksmith been called.
Amstrust should pay Mr H back 8% simple interest  on both of these payments from the date 
Mr H made  the payments,  until the date Amtrust refunds them.  This is to compensate  him for 
the time he has been out of pocket.
Mr H waited a long time for the recovery agents  to get into the boot of his car  and went  
without his car overnight while  the garage attempted to get into it  because of this 
unnecessary inconvenience caused, Amtrust  should  also pay Mr H £100  compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I now order  Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC to:
Refund Mr H the cost of the repairs amounting to £407.94
Refund Mr H £90 for the specialist equipment used to tow his car to the garage
Pay Mr H simple interest on the above  refunds  at 8% a year from the dates Mr H 
made the payments to the date the refunds  are made. If Amtrust considered it is 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to withhold income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction  
certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Pay Mr H £100 for the inconvenience  it has caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019. 
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9018224