K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that Vanquis Bank Ltd lent irresponsibly  when it increased  his credit card 
limit. 
Background
In September  2013 Vanquis  wrote  to Mr G to say it intended to increase  the limit on his 
credit card from £750 to £1,750 with effect from 16 October 2013. Vanquis  letter  said Mr G 
could make contact before that date if he didnt  want it to increase his limit. 
Mr Gs credit limit increased to £2,250 in January 2016, £2,500  in July 2016 and £3,000 in 
December 2016.  Before each increase Vanquis says it looked at how Mr G had run his 
account as well as information from his credit  file. Vanquis says it always  wrote to Mr G and 
gave him the chance to decline the increases  but he didnt  do so. 
In 2018 Mr G complained  and said Vanquis  had lent irresponsibly. Vanquis didnt uphold 
Mr Gs complaints. It said that in the months  leading up to its decision to increase  his limit 
hed made  payments on time and in excess of the minimum. Vanquis also said that the 
information from Mr Gs credit  file showed his other  credit was well handled. Vanquis 
accepted that Mr G had borrowing elsewhere but said the levels were in line with its lending  
criteria. Vanquis also said that Mr G didnt reject  in the increases and maintained his 
payments. 
Mr G referred  his complaint to our service and an investigator looked  at what  had happened.  
She said any increases  that happened before 2012 were  out of our jurisdiction because of 
the length of time thats passed. The investigator  also said the limit increases made between 
September 2013 and December 2016 were  affordable and didnt  recommend  Vanquis take 
any further action.  Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view and said the increases 
shouldnt have been approved based  on the evidence Vanquis had available.  Mr G asked to 
appeal so his complaint  has been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs credit limit has increased four times  since  2013. Ive looked  at each increase 
separately to see whether  I think Vanquis lent irresponsibly  and whether it carried out 
reasonably checks.  In line with a previous decision on this case, Im only looking at the limit 
increases from September 2013 onwards.  
In September  2013 the limit went from £750  to £1,750.  Vanquis  systems say that at this 
stage Mr G had around  £5,200 in other  credit  and it didnt find any evidence  of recent 
defaults. Vanquis also looked  at the level of payments Mr G was making and found he was 
paying more than the minimum each month  in the run up to its decision. Mr G missed 
February 2013s payment but made it up the following month.  The rest of Mr Gs payments 
were made on time. Ive looked  at how Mr Gs credit  card was handled in the months leading  
up to Vanquis decision  to increase his limit. I dont  agree that Vanquis  lent irresponsibly 
when it increased  Mr Gs limit in September 2013.  
Ref: DRN97587102The limit was increased again  in January 2016 when it went from £1,750 to £2,250. Vanquis 
records show that the level of debt with other  creditors had increased from £5,200 to 
£10,506 since the last limit increase  in September 2013. But its records  show  that Mr G had 
made payments that were  higher than his minimum in the three months running up to its 
assessment and hadnt missed any in the previous  year. Vanquis minimum payment came 
to £232.30 but Mr G had made payments totalling  £555. I also note that Mr G made an £800 
repayment in September  2015  in addition to his normal monthly payment. Vanquis also 
records that Mr G had no significant adverse credit and it was more  than 31 months since  
hed received a default. 
I understand Mr G feels Vanquis  shouldnt  have increased his limit. But I think  Vanquis claim 
that his account  was run well and in line with its terms along  with the fact his credit  file didnt 
show any new adverse  information indicates the increase was affordable. I note Mr G made 
payments considerably in excess of the minimum required  in the months leading up to 
Vanquis decision. Taking everything Ive seen  together, I think  Vanquis completed 
proportionate checks to ensure the limit increase  was affordable. 
The limit increased to £2,500 in July 2016.  Vanquis again looked at how Mr G had managed  
his account and found no missed payments. The minimum payments in the three months 
leading up to Vanquis decision totalling £342.50  but during that time Mr G made payments 
totalling £583 which is considerably higher.  I note that no new adverse credit  information 
was found and Mr G had been  managing his other credit. Ive looked at the checks  Vanquis 
completed and I think they were  reasonable As a result, I dont agree that Vanquis  decision 
to increase Mr Gs credit  limit was irresponsible. 
The final increase to £3,000 came into effect  in December 2016. At stage, Mr G had 
maintained his payments for an extended  period and there was no new adverse information 
on his credit file. Mr Gs payments in the three months before Vanquis decision totalled 
£478 against a minimum payment figure of £343.80. Mr G continued to make payments in 
excess of the minimum required. Vanquis says it looked at Mr Gs circumstances and 
information available including how hed handled  the account. Vanquis  evidence shows that 
the increased limit met its lending criteria so it decided to proceed. I think  that decision was 
reasonable based on the evidence Vanquis had available. 
I note that Vanquis  wrote  to Mr G before the decision to increase his credit limit came into 
effect each time. Vanquis gave Mr G the chance  to decline but he didnt take that step.  Im 
satisfied Vanquis provided  Mr G with notice  of its decision  and a chance to reject  the new 
limit. 
Taking everything Ive seen together, I think Vanquis  completed  proportionate checks each 
time it decided to increase Mr Gs credit limit. And I think the checks  showed  that the 
proposed increases were affordable based on the information Vanquis  on hand. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9758710