K821x#15complaint
Ms G through her relative Miss D complains that Aviva Insurance  Limited acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when it dealt with her travel insurance claim. She wants  compensation.
background
Ms G had a travel  insurance  policy with Aviva. She went  on holiday abroad in June 2018,  but 
was unable to return as planned as she was ill and hospitalised. Miss D travelled to help 
Ms G. Miss D said that when  Ms G was ready to be discharged, this wasnt possible without 
the relevant medical paperwork being sent to Aviva, who couldnt take action until the 
documents were  translated into English.  Miss D said this meant  that Ms G was discharged 
on a Monday, couldnt return  to the UK until the following  Thursday and Aviva had made no 
arrangements for Ms G to stay somewhere,  despite Ms G not being  well. Ms G stayed  with 
Miss D in the meantime  and then Aviva arranged a flight home and a taxi to the airport.
Miss D complained. Aviva said its staff proactively chased the hospital for the medical 
paperwork, but it wasnt provided in English. This meant that it had to send the paperwork for 
translation to a third party, but Aviva marked it as urgent. It accepted  that it couldve 
managed Miss Ds expectations better  and explained that it wasnt possible to immediately 
translate the document. Aviva said that as soon as it got the translated paperwork,  it took 
action. Aviva in total paid £753.61, which covered the flights, hotel, taxis, transfers, luggage 
allowances and £50 a night when Ms G was in hospital.
Miss D complained to us, saying that Aviva  didnt give Ms G enough support and shouldve 
arranged accommodation  for her following  the discharge from hospital. Miss D also said 
Aviva shouldnt have  waited until the medical  paperwork  was translated to take action. The 
investigators view was that it shouldnt have taken  two days for the translation  to be 
obtained, and thought  that it couldve been  done  quicker from the evidence available.  She 
also said that this delay caused  Ms G stress  and upset as she didnt have anywhere to stay 
once Miss Ds accommodation booking ended. The investigator said Aviva should pay £150 
compensation for trouble  and upset.
Miss D disagreed. She said that more  compensation should be paid as the translation  took 
too long and caused Ms G stress.  Miss D also that it was only by luck that Ms G could stay 
in her room.  Aviva thought £150  was too much  and it hadnt promised to get the translation 
done by a particular time.  It said that Miss D was told Ms G could make her own way home 
while waiting to hear if Aviva would  provide  cover. I understand  that Aviva has recently paid 
the £150 compensation our investigator  recommended. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G was unwell in a country that wasnt  English speaking. I can see that before Ms G was 
discharged, Aviva and its agents tried to get information from the hospital  in English, but 
without success and the medical information was eventually supplied in a foreign language. 
Ms Gs policy had exclusions, so Aviva  needed to understand the medical information in 
order to decide  what Ms G was entitled to under the policy. I dont think  this is unfair  or 
unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN90843732The evidence suggests Aviva sent the medical report for translation  within  a few hours of 
receiving it. The following day it sent the report to another business straight away  when 
Miss D explained how stressful  they were finding the wait. I can see that Aviva treated the 
request as urgent and were  proactive  about chasing  it up. Bearing in mind that Ms G was out 
of hospital and she didnt need urgent  or immediate repatriation I dont think those 
timescales were unreasonable. By saying that I dont seek  to minimise the stress and 
frustration Ms G and Miss D felt  Im sure they wanted to get home straight away  after such 
a difficult experience. But I think Aviva did what it could to get them  home quickly.  
However, Aviva accepts that it couldve managed  expectations better. It was obvious  from 
Miss Ds calls that further upset and stress  was being caused to Ms G because  they were 
desperate to get home, which is understandable after such  a stressful  and upsetting  
experience. So I think it wouldve  been helpful if Aviva  had set out more clearly what would 
happen next and the likely  timescales involved.  
And I dont  think its fair or reasonable for Aviva to say Ms G couldve  made  her own way 
home while waiting  to find out if she was covered; Ms G had just been discharged from 
hospital in a foreign country and Miss D has said to this service  that Ms G had run out of 
medication for her mental health  condition. The return journey home was likely  to be easier 
for Ms G if arranged by Aviva under the policy.
But money never truly compensates  for trouble and upset, and I can only award  
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by Avivas failings, not the whole situation. 
Such compensation is based on the individual consumers  trouble and upset and the 
evidence showing the amount of distress. Bearing  in mind the available  evidence,  I think  
£150 compensation is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused by Avivas failure 
to manage expectations  better in the circumstances; Ms G wanted to go home as soon as 
possible and was concerned about where she was to stay after Miss Ds accommodation 
booking ended. While Aviva was responding and trying to expedite  the translation, it does 
accept that it was at fault in not setting out more  clearly  to Miss D the time the translation  
was likely to take,  which  caused her to call more  than once  and not take action to arrange 
further accommodation if needed.  Theres no independent evidence that the translation 
issue delayed Ms Gs discharge.
Miss D complains that Aviva  didnt organise accommodation for Ms G on her discharge  from 
hospital. But Ive seen the contact  notes between Aviva and Miss D at the time (and I place 
weight on those notes  as they were  written at the time before the complaint was made);  they 
show Miss D told Aviva  that Ms G could stay in her accommodation when she was 
discharged. 
Given Ms Gs health and Miss Ds concern, this is an understandable suggestion and meant  
Aviva knew  Ms G had somewhere safe to stay. Aviva was still waiting for the translation,  so 
didnt know if Ms G was entitled to help under the terms of the policy.  It also booked a hotel 
room for both Ms G and Miss D when Miss D had to leave her accommodation. I dont think 
Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably when dealing with the issue of accommodation.  
Ref: DRN90843733my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  but note that Aviva Insurance  Limited has 
already paid Ms G a total of £150  compensation for her trouble and upset so no further  
payment is due. Under the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9084373