K821x#15complaint
Mrs L and her ex-partner  Mr L complain  that TSB Bank plc wouldnt remove  Mr L from their 
mortgage when  they were  going  through a separation. As a result, they took out a new fixed  
rate with TSB. Mrs L subsequently found  that she was able to re-mortgage  with a different 
lender, but they then incurred an early  redemption charge (ERC) when  repaying  the 
mortgage with TSB.
background
TSB was first contacted about a new product on Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage in July 2018. 
However, at the time it had temporarily  withdrawn its products  from the market  due to a 
change in its systems.
In August  2018  Mrs L approached TSB to see if she could remove  Mr L from their joint 
mortgage. TSB carried out an affordability  assessment that showed  it wasnt prepared to 
lend Mrs L the amount  that she needed  to take the mortgage over.
Later in August 2018 Mr and Mrs L made a joint application for a new product. TSB 
recommended that they should  take out a 5 year fixed rate product. This product included  an 
ERC if the mortgage  was repaid in full during that time.
Mrs L says that her lawyers subsequently suggested  that she approached other lenders, so 
she spoke to a broker. And the broker was able to secure her an offer with another bank in 
November 2018.  
Mrs L complained to TSB. TSB didnt  agree  that it had made an error by not removing Mr L 
from the mortgage, or by imposing the ERC.  But it did agree that when Mr and Mrs L initially  
called to look at a new rate it was unable to offer rates as it had temporarily withdrawn the 
facility. So it said it had arranged for the difference in the higher payments in August and 
September to be refunded. And it paid Mr and Mrs L £250 each to compensate  them for any 
distress and inconvenience caused by not being able to offer a new fixed rate, and a further 
£50 to cover  any expenses they had incurred. 
Following a further review  TSB issued another response letter. It said that it couldnt explain 
why a full application for Mrs L to take over the mortgage  did not go ahead. And it paid her a 
further £350 for any distress and inconvenience she had experienced. But it said it couldnt 
look to refund the ERC as it couldnt  guarantee that Mrs L would have been accepted for the 
mortgage if the application had been started.
While TSB was looking into her complaint Mrs L went ahead  with her re-mortgage  to the new 
lender. TSB issued  a redemption statement in November 2018  showing an ERC of just over 
£5,000. The mortgage was redeemed  at the end of December 2018.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said, in summary:
Although Mrs L had felt that TSB hadnt looked  into her circumstances properly 
before dismissing  her request  to take out the mortgage on her own he could see that 
it did carry out an affordability assessment. This showed  that it wouldnt lend her the 
full amount owed.  So the mortgage was deemed  to be unaffordable;
While  a full application never  took place, it didnt seem that starting a full application 
would have led to a different outcome;
Ref: DRN97238432The regulator allows a lender  to disregard the outcome of an affordability assessment 
where it would  be in a consumers  best interest to do so. But in the circumstances of 
this complaint he felt it was right for the business to check  that she could afford the 
mortgage, and didnt think it would be fair to expect  the business to set aside the 
outcome of their affordability assessment;
Although another lender had lent Mrs L the amount  she needed plus additional funds 
this didnt mean that TSB should have done  so. And hed not seen anything to 
suggest that if TSB had spent longer considering the issue  it would have led to a 
different outcome. So it seemed Mrs L would likely always  have had to move  her 
mortgage elsewhere;
On the basis of Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances he didnt feel it was suitable advice to 
place them on a product with an ERC. This is because that they were going through  
a separation and the ideal outcome for both of them  (which TSB was aware of) was 
that Mr L should be removed from the mortgage.  And he didnt  feel that TSBs fact 
finding questions  had been robust enough  for it to have gathered  all of the 
information it needed to make  a suitable  recommendation.
TSB doesnt agree with our investigators  conclusions. It says:
Both Mr and Mrs L had answered  no when asked if there could be any change to 
their circumstances in the future  which could affect the affordability of the mortgage, 
and they had both said that their main concern was stability of payments over 5 
years;
The mortgage adviser would not have asked whether Mr and Mrs L were intending to 
remain together in the interview;
As Mr and Mrs L both signed the agreement to convert to the new rate independently 
this would have  been an ideal opportunity for Mrs L to say that she didnt  want the 
product transfer  to complete.  There  was nothing to indicate that she was unhappy 
with the recommendation until she had the offer from the new lender;
Mrs L had several  opportunities to stop the product  transfer.
If Mr and Mrs L had given  any indication  that they were considering separating  it felt 
certain that the five year fixed rate would not have been recommended.  But the 
adviser had no knowledge that Mrs L had been considering  removing Mr L from the 
mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons that TSB didnt act unreasonably in refusing to 
remove Mr L from the mortgage. But I also agree that it didnt take adequate steps to ensure 
that the recommendation it made to Mr and Mrs L to fix their rate was suitable. Ill explain 
why Ive reached this decision.
TSB has provided evidence of the affordability  assessment carried out in August 2018  when 
Mrs L asked whether it would be possible to remove Mr L from the mortgage. I can see from 
this that, based  on Mrs Ls income  and expenditure, TSB wasnt prepared  to lend her the 
amount she needed to take the mortgage  over.
I appreciate that Mrs L has said that her discussions with TSB were very brief.  But Im 
satisfied from the evidence that TSB did consider her request in order to reach its decision in 
principle.
Ref: DRN97238433Although a full application  never  took place, I agree with our investigator that based on the 
initial affordability assessment it is unlikely  that a full application would have led to a different 
outcome. And from what Ive seen it looks as if Mrs L may have  wanted  to borrow more than 
the amount outstanding on the mortgage,  and that Mr L had previously also contributed to 
the mortgage. So Im persuaded  that it was reasonable for TSB to take affordability into 
account when  considering  the application  and whether it was going to be in Mrs Ls best 
interests for Mr L to come off the mortgage. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that 
TSB did anything wrong when it issued its decision in principle indicating that it wouldnt be 
able to lend Mrs L the amounts she needed  to remove Mr L from the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs L subsequently  made  an application  to move to a five year fixed  rate product. So 
Ive also looked  at whether it was suitable to recommend that Mr and Mrs L move to this 
product, given that it carried an ERC.  
TSB says, and I accept,  that as Mrs Ls discussions with TSB only reached  the decision in 
principle stage this was not recorded  on its systems for the adviser dealing with the 
application to change the rate to see. TSB says that its adviser would only have been  aware 
of the separation if Mr and Mrs L had told them. And the fact find TSB has supplied  doesnt 
indicate that Mr and Mrs L mentioned the separation when answering  the questions.
But, although Ive considered what TSB has to say, I agree with our investigator that TSB 
was responsible for the suitability of the recommendation it gave to Mr and Mrs L. I also 
agree that the questions in the fact find did not go far enough to establish their 
circumstances in this case. In particular, although  TSB points  to the fact that both Mr and 
Mrs L answered no when asked if they anticipated any changes  to their circumstances,  this 
question related only to changes  to their personal  income or expenditure. I dont  agree  that 
this question should have prompted Mr and Mrs L to volunteer information  about their 
separation.
In addition, I agree that it wasnt unreasonable for Mr and Mrs L to have assumed that the 
adviser would  have been aware of Mrs Ls conversations with TSB about removing Mr L 
from the mortgage, and about their separation. 
On balance, Im persuaded that if TSBs adviser had asked, Mr and Mrs L would have 
explained that they were separated and ideally looking to remove  Mr L from the mortgage. 
And Im persuaded that the adviser  should not have recommended that they take out the five 
year fixed  product but should have explained  that, although TSB was not able to grant  Mrs L 
a mortgage in her sole name, another lender might be willing  to do so.
TSB should put Mr and Mrs L back into the position  they would have been  in had they not 
moved onto the five year tracker rate. In order to do this, TSB should:
rework the mortgage as if it had remained on the standard variable rate rather  than 
being put onto the new lower rate;
this means that the ERC would not have been  paid but also means  that Mr and 
Mrs Ls lower  rate  which was backdated to July 2018  wouldnt apply either;
Apply 8% loss of use interest to the refund amount from the date the ERC was paid 
to the date the refund is processed.
As the ERC  was paid by Mrs Ls new mortgage  Im satisfied that the refund and interest  
should be paid directly to her.
Ref: DRN97238434If TSB considers that it is required by HM Revenue and Customs  to withhold income tax 
from the interest it pays Mrs L it should tell her how much it has taken off. It should  also give 
Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs  if appropriate.
Finally, I note that TSB has already paid Mr and Mrs L compensation in its responses  to this 
complaint. Im satisfied  that, in the circumstances, no further compensation is merited. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs L the 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9723843