K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about a mortgage  endowment policy he and his ex-partner were  sold in 
1999 by an independent  financial adviser.  Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  is 
the product provider.  Mr T is unhappy that after 2006 he didnt receive any automated 
correspondence about the policy. As such,  he believes he was prevented from taking action 
to address its poor performance.  
background
The endowment policy was sold in 1999. It is invested in the with-profits  fund, had a 25 year 
term and will mature in 2024. The policy was assigned to Mr T in January 2019 and so he is 
now the sole owner.
In 2006 Mr T and his partner (Ms M) split up. Ms M wrote  to Legal and General in 2007  from 
her new address, confirmed she no longer lived at the address on record  and asked  the 
response be sent to her new address.  As she was a policyholder, Legal and General 
updated its records to reflect  the new address it had been asked to use and thereafter  used  
it as the main correspondence address.  Legal and General doesnt appear  to have been 
made aware  at that time that the policyholders had separated and they each needed to be 
sent their own copy of any correspondence.  It would appear that correspondence addressed 
to Mr T and Ms M was sent to the correspondence (Ms Ms) address thereafter, but 
correspondence addressed to just Mr T following his requests  for information was sent to his 
address rather than the joint correspondence address. 
The re-projection letters sent to Mr T and Ms M prior to 2006 all indicated  the policy was on 
track to reach its target value at maturity. The subsequent letters advised of the possibility of 
a shortfall and in 2016 the re-projection  advised there was a high risk of a shortfall.
In 2018 Mr T contacted  Legal and General to find out how much the policy was worth. 
During this telephone call the call handler  initially gave Mr T incorrect information about his 
policy, but later corrected the error.  
Mr T complained to Legal and General about the service he had received from it. He said he 
had needed to call it several times a year to get updates on the policy  as it didnt proactively 
send him any information. He also said he has concerns  that when the policy  matures  it 
wont produce enough to repay his mortgage. He is of the view that taking  another 
investment to cover any shortfall would be prohibitively expensive and he already  knows  that 
it isnt possible to increase the policy premium as he was told that some time ago when he 
enquired about  doing  so. Mr T believes that had Legal and General been monitoring the 
endowment policy and corresponding with him, the likelihood of there being a shortfall would 
have been much smaller.
Legal and General explained what had happened in relation to the automated 
correspondence. It accepted the service it had given Mr T wasnt what it should have been  in 
that some  letters in response to his specific queries were sent to Ms Ms address and it 
hadnt properly  answered his question  about  not getting (automated) correspondence. It 
offered him £125 compensation. Mr T didnt accept  Legal and Generals position and 
referred his complaint to this service.
Separately, Mr T complained to the business who sold him the endowment policy.  That 
complaint was upheld and redress paid earlier this year.
Ref: DRN94935312One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. She didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld and thought the compensation  offer was reasonable.  Mr T didnt accept the 
adjudicators view. He explained that in 2006  he and Ms M had come  to a financial  
agreement regarding the policy and their property,  which he had settled in 2015,  but the 
policy assignment hadnt happened  until 2019. 
Mr T said he didnt  consider Legal  and General made any attempt to correspond  with him 
and it shouldnt have  been assumed he and the other policyholder communicated  with each 
other. In addition, he stated the address Legal and General had for Ms M was her parents 
address and she only lived there for around  four months after the separation. He confirmed 
the address was owned by Ms Ms parents until November 2017, which would be why the 
annual statement at the end of 2017 was returned.  Mr T questioned why no attempt to trace 
Ms M or himself  was made by Legal and General  when its correspondence was returned.  
Mr T believes that it was made  clear  to Legal and General from Ms Ms letter  in 2007 and 
Mr Ts subsequent conversations with it, that Ms M wouldnt be contributing to the 
endowment after their separation and wouldnt receive any of its proceeds.  Mr T highlighted 
that the policy premiums  had been  paid from an account in his sole name since 2006. He 
said that at no point did Legal and General  check his contact details  were  correct and up to 
date. Mr T said that Legal and General  had been kept informed of the situation since  the 
separation in 2006 and hed made enquiries about having  the policy assigned to him as far 
back as 2014.  
Mr T reiterated his comments about the lack of re-projection letters  between  2006 and 2018 
meaning he had less time to deal with any potential shortfall. In response to the adjudicators 
comment about the performance  of the policy, he questioned how he was to know  whether, 
during the recent years of turbulence in the financial markets, Legal  and Generals  
decision- making wasnt adding fuel to the fire and making my investments performance 
even worse?
In light of his concerns,  Mr T feels that fair compensation would  be to get an actuary  to 
determine the value of a savings plan at £100 a month contribution (the amount he can 
afford) over a 5 year period  compared  to the same plan over a 12 year period, less the 
contributions made. The difference  in value would be a suitable  amount of compensation, 
plus an amount for the time he has had to put into the complaint.  
Some further enquiries were made with Legal and General. It confirmed it hadnt been  told 
Mr T and Ms M had separated until recently.  It had been asked about assignment of the 
policy and had sent an information pack in 2008, but hadnt received further instructions. It 
said if it had been  aware Mr T and Ms M had separated, it would still have only sent 
automated information  to whichever address it had set as the correspondence address.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has said that Legal and General was aware  that he and Ms M had separated, that she 
wasnt contributing  to the policy and wouldnt receive any of the proceeds.  As such,  it should  
have sent all of the automated information  about the policy  to him. I can understand, if that 
were the case,  why Mr T would reach the conclusions he did. However, Legal and General 
Ref: DRN94935313say it wasnt aware of the separation until recently  and Ive seen nothing on its records to 
indicate it did. 
The letter from Ms M in 2007  cancels a direct debit which  appears  to come from her sole 
bank account.  The replacement payment method  was a direct debit from Mr Ts sole 
account. This wouldnt automatically  lead to the conclusion that they had ceased  being in a 
relationship and it certainly wouldnt  have  been  appropriate for Legal  and General to have 
made the assumption that was the case.
Legal and General was aware  the two policyholders had two separate  addresses.  However, 
again it wouldnt have  been reasonable of it to make any assumptions about their 
relationship. It was for Mr T and Ms M to tell Legal and General information to enable it to 
deal with the situation appropriately. I havent  seen  that it was provided  with any such 
information.
Whilst Mr T doesnt  think it reasonable for Legal  and General to assume the two 
policyholders communicated about  the policy, I dont agree.  Until Mr T bought Ms M out of 
the policy and it was assigned to him, they still jointly owned the policy. So they were both 
jointly responsible  for the policy. It doesnt seem  unreasonable  that both policyholders would 
engage with what  is happening with their joint asset, including  speaking  to each other and 
sharing information  about it. 
Mr T is unhappy  that the automated information  wasnt sent to his address. As I have said 
above, it doesnt appear that Legal  and General was aware this would be a problem as it 
wasnt aware that the policyholders were  no longer  in a relationship or that they werent 
speaking to each  other.  So I cant find it did anything wrong in using the address of one 
rather than the other  of the joint policyholders to send automated correspondence to. When 
Mr T called to ask for additional information,  this was usually sent to his address. Legal  and 
General offered £125 for not adequately responding to Mr Ts question  about the policy  
reviews and for sending  some of the information  he specifically asked for to Ms Ms 
correspondence address. In the circumstances, I think this is adequate compensation. 
Mr T has said the lack of the automated  correspondence  prevented  him from taking any 
action about the shortfall  on his policy. In light of this, he would like to be compensated. Mr T 
was sent information about  the policy and its value  on numerous occasions  and hes 
confirmed that on at least one of those  he enquired  about increasing the premium.  I can only 
assume that request to increase the premium was because he understood there was likely  
to be a shortfall on the policy.  Furthermore,  I dont consider  it was Legal and Generals fault 
he wasnt kept up to date about the expected performance of the policy;  rather this would 
appear to have been because of the lack of communication  between  him and Ms M. 
I can understand why Mr T is disappointed  with the value  of his policy and that it is likely  to 
have a shortfall at maturity. However,  there was never a guarantee that the policy would 
produce sufficient to repay the mortgage it had been  arranged  for. 
As far as I can see, Legal and General did what it said it would. It took Mr Ts premiums and 
invested them in the fund selected at the time of the sale. The fund has been managed to try 
to get the best returns possible.  It wasnt in anyones interest  for the fund to do badly as the 
success of Legal  and General and the individual fund managers would, to an extent, rely on 
getting the best possible returns. The simple fact is, the fund hasnt performed as well as 
was hoped for. I havent seen any evidence this was done on purpose or that it was due to 
any negligence on the part of the individual fund managers or Legal and General. 
Ref: DRN94935314my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject  my decision before 
12 October 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9493531