K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs G says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs G took out on a store card account in April 2003. It 
was added to her account when  she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
I think FICL  made  Mrs G aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because FICL  has given us a copy of the store card application form 
from the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI and that it is presented 
as optional. It says under this section only sign this box if you require account cover. Mrs G has 
then signed in this box on the application  form to indicate she consented to the information 
contained in it. So I think this reflected what she wanted. Had Mrs G not wanted the PPI she 
could have completed the application  and not signed in the box in the separate section 
agreeing to have  the cover.
I cant be sure what happened at the time of sale when this application  form was completed,  
but based on what I know of how sales were conducted and without further information to 
support what Mrs G is saying, I cannot  safely conclude anything  other  than the form 
demonstrates a fair reflection of what Mrs G wanted at that time (and she signed  in the box 
and at the bottom of the application agreeing to have the card and PPI.)
This application was made by Mrs G completing  an application in a store. So because  of 
this, I dont think a recommendation was made by FICL. So FICL didnt have to check  if the 
policy was suitable  for her. But it still needed  to make sure it gave Mrs G enough information 
to make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her, taking into account her 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs G would have  acted  differently and not bought the policy,  
if better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think  better information 
wouldve led her to act differently.
Ref: DRN94887392I say this because  I think  the PPI could have been useful to Mrs G in that her store card 
payments would be met in addition to the 6 months  sick pay she held. I think the policy  
would have provided a useful benefit  for her. I havent  seen  enough information that would 
suggest to me she would have been  put off from having it if she was given  clearer  
information. I also couldnt see any significant  or limiting terms that would have affected    
Mrs Gs decision  to take the policy out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mrs Gs decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. The policy seemed affordable and she could have cancelled it at any time. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Gs comments,  but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont  uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9488739