K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs L say Coventry Building Society mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs L and Coventry a provisional  decision  on 11 April 2019 to explain why I 
didnt think the policy had been mis-sold, but did think  Coventry  should  pay back  some of the 
cost of the PPI. An extract  from my provisional decision is set out below:
Mr and Mrs L were  initially sold PPI to cover their mortgage in 2004.
Mr and Mrs L took out a further advance on their mortgage in January 2005 but it doesnt 
appear that their PPI policy  was amended at this point. Their PPI policy was amended in 
February 2005, but it appears this was done at Mr and Mrs Ls request. So I havent  treated 
these as further sales.
When selling  the PPI, Coventry had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs L that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs L say they got the impression the PPI was compulsory and thought 
their mortgage application  wouldnt be accepted if they didnt take the PPI.
Coventry has sent us a copy of the mortgage  offer letter for Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage,  which  
shows no PPI has been taken. And Coventrys  records show  that Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage 
had been running for around four months before the PPI was taken  out. So I dont think  Mr 
and Mrs L can reasonably have thought that they had to have the PPI in order  to get the 
mortgage.
Coventry has also sent us a copy of a PPI application form signed by Mr and Mrs L, 
separate to their mortgage application form. This PPI application form shows  the total benefit 
of the PPI policy and the benefit split Mr and Mrs L wanted.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  Coventry did make  it clear to Mr and Mrs L 
that they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs L chose to take it, knowing they 
didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Coventry  gave  Mr and Mrs L any personalised advice 
about the PPI. So I dont  think  it recommended the PPI to them. This means Coventry  didnt 
have to check if the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs L. But it did have to make sure they got the 
information they needed to decide  if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Coventry gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like they were  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. So the PPI 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong.
Mr and Mrs L have said they had significant sick pay and savings as well as private health 
insurance, and so they didnt need  the PPI. But they havent been able to give us specific 
details about their sick pay. And I think its likely the PPI couldve paid out for longer than 
they wouldve  been entitled  to full sick pay. The policy also meant they wouldnt need to rely 
on their savings to make  their mortgage repayments  if one of them  wasnt working,  and 
Ref: DRN95402222provided different  cover  than their health insurance.  So I still think it would have been useful 
to them.
A mortgage is also a significant financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Ls property  couldve  
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policy offered appealing. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs L off taking it out.
Mr and Mrs L have said that they wouldve reached  retirement age relatively shortly after the 
sale and so wouldve  stopped being  covered  and wouldnt have been covered until the 
scheduled end of the mortgage. But the policy would have covered Mr L for around five 
years and Mrs L for around  ten years. And I think this is a reasonable period of cover. So I 
dont think better information  about  this wouldve put Mr and Mrs L off taking out the policy.
Which means Coventry doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But I do currently think Coventry should pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs L because:
Coventry got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Coventry didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.
To put that right, Coventry has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
The policy was later amended into Mrs Bs sole name, as Mr B had reached the age of 65 
and so wasnt eligible  for the policy anymore.  And Mr and Mrs L have complained that 
Coventry kept charging them  for the policy after Mrs B started receiving her state pension. 
Theyve said she wasnt eligible for the policy  once  she was receiving  her state  pension,  and 
so Coventry should  have  cancelled the policy and should refund the premiums they were 
charged after this.
Mr and Mrs L have said the policy booklet  they were sent shows Mrs L wouldnt have been 
eligible once she was receiving her state pension.  But it appears they were sent an incorrect 
policy document. And the policy document covering the time of the sale doesnt mention 
receipt of state  pension  and says that cover will continue until a customer turns 65 or retires  
from work.  While Mrs L was receiving her state  pension, it doesnt appear  that she had 
retired from work. So she would still have been covered by the policy. And so Coventry  
acted reasonably in not cancelling the policy and doesnt have to refund all of the premiums 
Mr and Mrs L were  charged after Mrs L started  receiving her state pension.
I set out what I intended to require Coventry  to do to put things right and said Id consider 
anything further  Mr and Mrs L or Coventry  sent me.
Coventry said it had nothing further  to add. Mr and Mrs L raised a number of points in 
response to my provisional  decision, which I will address below.
Ref: DRN95402223my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments, including the new points Mr 
and Mrs L have raised, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Weve set out or general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Mr and Mrs L have said the PPI was taken out as a single  package with their mortgage in 
2003, and that this included three  months of free PPI cover.
I can see that some of the documents from the sale of Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage mention 
PPI, including  a letter they have specifically  referred to which says they can receive three 
months free cover. But these documents dont show that PPI was actually  taken out at the 
time, they only show that it was an option available to Mr and Mrs L.
The mortgage offer letter  of October 2003, which  I would  expect to represent what  was 
actually agreed  between Mr and Mrs L and Coventry, shows that no PPI was taken. Ive 
seen copies of letters from Coventry  in January and February 2004  enclosing a PPI 
application form for Mr and Mrs L to complete and then telling them  their PPI application 
form had been  forwarded to the insurer. And Ive seen a PPI schedule of insurance  showing 
the policy started in February 2004.
So I still think its likely the PPI was initially taken out in 2004, and that Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage had been running  for around four months  before  the PPI was taken out.
Mr and Mrs L have questioned what happened  with the PPI at the time they were taking their 
further advance  in late 2004  / early  2005 and they feel Coventry should have done more.  But 
the application form for the further advance says they already have PPI and I cant  see that 
their policy was amended  when the further advance was taken. So I dont think  this should 
be treated as a further point of sale and so I havent  considered it further.
The PPI policy was amended shortly  after the further advance was taken,  and Mr and Mrs L 
say this was only done as Coventry sent them  a letter suggesting they review their PPI. But I 
dont think this letter suggests Coventry  is recommending they increase their cover, or has 
carried out a review of their circumstances. And the further advance had been completed  at 
this point. So I still think this amendment was done  primarily on Mr and Mrs Ls instruction 
and I dont think this should be treated as a further sale either.
Mr and Mrs L have also asked whether the details they provided about  their medical 
benefits, redundancy benefits and personal  savings were considered  and whether the fact 
that the PPI had excess deductibles was considered. Theyve also said that the sale took 
place around fifteen years ago, and so their needs at the time should  be considered.
I explained in my provisional decision  that I had considered  all the available  evidence and 
arguments, and this included all the information Mr and Mrs L sent in and the terms of the 
PPI policy. Ive also considered all of this information  again before making this final decision.  
And Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances and needs  at the time of the sale were considered as 
part of my decision.
Ref: DRN95402224Mr and Mrs L also raised several points about  Coventry telling them they could continue  with 
the policy after Mrs L was receiving her state pension,  and being  sent a policy  document  
which said Mrs L wouldnt be eligible once she was receiving her state  pension.
I explained in my provisional decision  that I was satisfied the relevant policy document  for 
their policy didnt say Mrs L would be ineligible once she was receiving her state pension. So 
Mrs L could still have  been covered by the policy  even after she was receiving her state 
pension. I still think this is the case. And so I dont  think Coventry made a mistake when 
telling Mr and Mrs L that their policy could continue after Mrs L was receiving her state 
pension.
Mr and Mrs L do appear to have been sent an incorrect  policy  document. And so it was 
reasonable for them to think Mrs L wasnt eligible for the policy anymore based  on this. But, 
as Ive explained above, Mrs L was still eligible for the policy.  And I dont think  Coventry  
should be required to refund any of the PPI premiums  paid or pay Mr and Mrs L any 
compensation as a result of the confusion caused by the incorrect  policy document.
Finally, Mr and Mrs L raised that their monthly  mortgage repayment reduced over time and 
they feel Coventry should have done  more to make sure the PPI was still appropriate for 
them. But Coventrys  responsibilities only relate to the sale of the policy.  Coventry doesnt 
need to make sure the policy continues to be useful  to Mr and Mrs L after the sale,  and it is 
for Mr and Mrs L to check whether they still want the policy  and that it is still right for them.
So I dont  think the points Mr and Mrs L have raised  change the conclusions I set out in my 
provisional decision. I still dont think Coventry  should have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs L. But I do still think Coventry  should pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs L because:
Coventry got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Coventry didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.
To put that right, Coventry has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Coventry should pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Coventry  should also pay back to Mr and Mrs L any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Coventry should pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Coventry should 
also pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN95402225my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  doesnt  have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9540222