K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them  payment protection  insurance 
(PPI).
background
PPI was added to Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage  account in 1999,  when  they took out their 
mortgage. Mr T only was covered under the policy. Their mortgage  ended in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion. They said they were told even though PPI was optional,  if they wanted  the mortgage  
approved, they would need to take PPI. They say that its not fair that they have just been 
refunded only some  of the commission because they were  charged around £1,000 for an 
insurance policy they didnt want or need.  Mr T said he didnt need the PPI because hed 
never had time off sick. They said if they genuinely  believed they needed the cover, they 
wouldve taken out cover for Mrs T also. They also said they were  unaware that they 
couldve cancelled the policy  at any time,  believing  the total cost of the policy was added at 
the point of sale.
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed between Mr and Mrs T and Lloyds at the time they took out 
the PPI. I wasnt present.  Ive taken into account  what Mr and Mrs T remember from the time 
of sale. They  say they have a clear  recollection  of what was discussed. This sale occurred  
nearly 20 years ago, and I think its equally likely that Mr and Mrs T may not remember 
exactly everything that was discussed, due to the passage  of time. It wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect them to. So, I cant fairly  base my decision just on what they remember.
Ive also looked  at the paperwork  that Mr and Mrs T completed at the time of sale, and that 
they were sent after the mortgage  and PPI was taken out. I can see that they ticked the box 
on the mortgage application  to say they wanted PPI. There was also a no box to select if 
they didnt want  PPI. I can see they also then completed a separate PPI application and 
direct debit to apply for the cover  in Mr Ts name only. 
Mr T said this was done because they were told their mortgage  wouldnt be approved 
otherwise, and they took out cover in his name only to keep the costs  down. I cant  know  if 
this is right.  But, I think it just as likely  that Mr and Mrs T were given information that made  it 
clear that they didnt  have to take PPI to get the mortgage. In reaching  this conclusion,  I 
have taken into account that this was made clear on the mortgage  and PPI paperwork they 
Ref: DRN95887322signed and Mr and Mrs T were sent a letter telling them that they could cancel their PPI 
policy within  30 days if they didnt  think the PPI was suitable for their needs.  The 
accompanying paperwork also made  it clear that this was a monthly paid policy and that the 
premium would be collected each month.  So, I think Mr and Mrs T probably mis-
remembered or misunderstood what they were  told about being  able to cancel the policy. 
Ive also seen the internal loan assessment form completed by the adviser. Mr and Mrs T 
probably didnt  get to see this, but it said they were longstanding customers  with an excellent 
repayment track record. So, it seems they were in a strong position  to get the re-mortgage  
they were applying for. I cant know if they were told this.
So, I cant fairly rely on what Mr and Mrs T remember alone to decide this case. Based on 
the information I have, overall, I think Mr and Mrs T were probably  told that PPI was an 
optional and separate product and they chose to take it.
Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs T. So, as well as giving them information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading about the policy, Lloyds had the added responsibility of 
considering whether the policy was suitable  for their needs. 
Mr T only was covered under the policy. But, as this was a joint mortgage  Ive taken into 
account Mrs Ts circumstances  too when  deciding if the policy was suitable  for their joint 
needs and they were  given enough clear  information.
The PPI didnt appear unsuitable for Mr and Mrs T looking at their circumstances at the time. 
Ill explain  why.
Mr T appeared eligible for the policy.
The policy seemed affordable. The cover  was taken out in Mr Ts name only. Mr T said if 
they genuinely believed they needed  cover, then they wouldve taken out joint cover.  
However, according to their mortgage application,  Mrs T was earning  less than a quarter of 
what Mr T was earning. So, if he was out of work, this may have had a greater impact on 
their ability to meet their mortgage  repayments.
Mr T said he was eligible to get around 3 months  worth of sick pay through  work. The PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ts sick pay, and potentially for up to 12 months per 
successful claim. Given that their home  was at risk, I think PPI couldve provided them with a 
useful benefit.  Repeat claims were  possible  under the policy, so it gave them long term 
protection for their mortgage. 
Mrs T was working, but as Ive said about her income was much  less than Mr Ts at the time 
they took out the mortgage. So, if Mr T was out of work, they mightve  found  it very difficult  to 
meet all their household  expenses and mortgage from just her income. They said they had 
no savings or other insurances. So, I cant see that their other resources made  the policy 
inappropriate for them.
I cant see that Mr T was affected by any of the main  things that wouldve likely made it more 
difficult for him to make a successful claim. So, I think having better information about  these  
things wouldnt have  changed his mind about  taking out the policy. Mr T said hed never had 
time off work, so he didnt need the policy and was paying out for something  he didnt want. 
However, PPI is intended to cover unforeseen sickness, disability or unemployment, so I still 
think it couldve provided Mr and Mrs T with valuable protection, if he found  himself in any of 
these situations.
Ref: DRN95887323Looked at overall, I find PPI couldve been  useful if Mr and Mrs T had needed to make  a 
claim. I cant  see that their other means  made  the policy inappropriate for them.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold.  I think  
it likely  that Mr and Mrs T couldve been given clearer  information about the costs of the 
policy, for example.  But given the cost of the policy per month (around £18) and that the PPI 
covered their mortgage repayments in full, I dont think this wouldve put them off taking PPI 
out. I think, Mr and Mrs T likely still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better 
advised and informed as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont 
think better advice or information wouldve stopped them buying PPI. I think  it was made 
clear that the PPI couldve been  cancelled at any time without them  losing out financially.
This means  Lloyds doesnt need  to pay back all of the premiums Mr and Mrs T paid.
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage ended in 2004.  But Lloyds  has decided  to pay back  some of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because:
When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so Lloyds has decided  that because  it did 
not tell Mr and Mrs T about  that, it will repay some of the commission.  
Lloyds has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was above  50% of 
the PPI premium. I think this is a reasonable response.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Lloyds  Bank Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T. I understand it has already paid back  some 
commission. So, I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9588732