K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a store  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1997. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility for this sale. 
So, in my decision, Ill just refer to FICL  as the PPI seller. Ms S says FICL  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Ms S case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of the store  card application form Ms S signed. I can see FICL made her 
aware that she had a choice about  adding PPI and that she chose to take it by ticking in 
the relevant place . I can understand if she doesnt remember  that now, after all this time.
I dont consider that FICL personally recommended the PPI to Ms S. So it didnt have  to 
check if the PPI was right for her. But FICL  should have given her the information she 
needed to decide  for herself  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And I can see why as the PPI benefits were  considerable and would have paid out 
for a significant time. They covered her for unemployment too. I also think  its likely Ms S 
realised there was a cost for the cover.
Based  on what Ive seen of Ms Ss circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
significantly affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover   so it would  
have been useful to her if something went wrong. Ive thought  carefully about what  Ms S 
representative told us about her being  a student at the time of the sale. Although we 
asked for more information  about that, and the representative replied that she was a full-
time student, the representative also said Ms S hadnt confirmed to it that she was in fact 
studying full-time.  In the absence  of any clarification on that point or of her work situation, I 
dont think it would  be fair for me to uphold the complaint on these grounds.
Taking the available information into account, I dont believe Ms S has lost out because  of how 
FICL sold her the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN93900652Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or reject 
my decision  before 21 June 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9390065