K822xcomplaint
Mr L has complained  about  Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy  about 
the way it dealt with a claim  under  his car insurance  policy.
background 
I considered this complaint and outlined my thoughts and the background to this case in my 
provisional decision as follows;
Mr Ls car was attacked by a vandal over a month period around  the beginning of 2018.
Most of the damage was minor and Mr L looked to repair some of the damage  himself. But 
the increasing levels of vandalism led Mr L to make a claim under his insurance policy  and 
Advantage wrote his car off.
At the time of claim Mr L was reassured by Advantage  that this would be marked  as one 
claim as opposed  to several different  claims.  And he only paid one excess.
But when Mr Ls policy renewed later that year it appeared  that his renewal was affected by 
all of the incidents. This is because they had been marked as one fault claim  and four non-
fault claims which remained  open.  Advantage advised Mr L that it would remove  the other  
four incidents from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) and provided him with a 
quote based on one fault claim  which he accepted.
The following  year Mr L was told that Advantage wouldnt  insure  him because  of the five 
claims that were recorded.  Mr L complained again but this time Advantage said that it had to 
record all the incidents as claims and apologised for not being upfront with him at the 
beginning of the claim process  and when he first complained.  It explained that it would 
always have to record all the incidents  on CUE and that it shouldnt have told him otherwise 
at the time of claim  or at the last renewal. It offered him £50 compensation for the poor 
advice.
Mr L complained to this service. Our investigator looked into things for him and eventually 
decided that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought  Advantage should  do what it said 
it would  do at the beginning of the claim process and remove all references to the other 
incidents and just leave the one claim. And she also thought that Advantage should  increase 
the level of compensation from £50 to £200.
As Advantage didnt agree the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld,  but for slightly different reasons.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration here. I say this as Advantage clearly told him that there 
would only be one claim and one excess to pay when he claimed following the difficult  period 
of sustained vandalism  against him. This was compounded by the fact that at the first 
renewal Advantage  told him the same  thing and provided cover based on one claim.
But what  Advantage appeared to have  agreed  with him, and communicated poorly, was that 
it would  only mark one fault claim and that he would only have  to pay one excess. But that 
Ref: DRN92229692the other incidents  of vandalism would be recorded  as incident only. This would have meant  
that Mr Ls driving history  was correct and, as Advantage has highlighted, it is obliged  to 
record these on CUE.
However, Advantage hasnt done this even now. What it has recorded  on CUE is that Mr L 
has one fault claim  and four open non-fault claims  which isnt correct. I say this as Mr L 
didnt look to claim following the initial incidents  and repaired a windscreen wiper himself.  
Indeed, he has clearly stated that he wouldnt have claimed at all had he been made aware  
that he wouldve  ended up with five claims.
So, I think the fair and reasonable thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for Advantage to mark the additional vandalism as incidents on CUE (not non-fault  claims). I 
say this as the write off was dealt  with under one claim and Mr L was told that there would 
only be one fault claim and he paid only one excess.
Finally, Mr L has had to complain on two separate occasions about the recording of this 
claim and has been  refused  insurance because of Advantages poor handling of his claim. It 
has acknowledged that it was not upfront with him when he claimed initially,  and the 
incidents are still not recorded correctly now. So, I think that he should be awarded £200 
compensation as opposed to £50.
Advantage should also provide Mr L with a letter explaining that it marked  the other incidents 
incorrectly as non-fault  open claims when it should  have  marked  them as incident only. This 
will allow Mr Ls present insurer to revisit his premium and ensure that he is paying  the 
correct amount.
replies
Neither side has responded  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld. I say this as 
neither party  has provided any further  evidence or commentary for me to consider. So, I 
dont propose to go over the detail of the case again here. 
I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances 
of this case, is to uphold  Mr Ls complaint.  Advantage should  look to record  the details of 
Mr Ls complaint correctly so that future  insurers  have a true record of Mr Ls driving history. 
As it stands other insurers will be under the impression that Mr Ls claims are still open  
(when they are not) and that they were non-fault when I think  they should be recorded  as 
incident only. It should also provide a letter of explanation to Mr L and pay him £200 
compensation for the clear  stress  and inconvenience he has faced.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to mark the additional non-fault claims as incidents on CUE, to 
provide Mr L with a letter  of explanation  and to pay him £200 compensation.
Ref: DRN92229693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9222969