K820x#14complaint
Mr H is complaining that American  Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) has declined  a 
claim he made under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S75).
background
In August  2018  Mr H travelled to Beirut with his family. He says he arrived at the airport for 
his return journey around four hours before the flight was due to leave. But he said that there  
were security issues at the airport, so said that he, his family and many other passengers  
didnt make the flight. 
Mr H said that he had to pay for two nights in a hotel  before he could get another  flight  and 
he had to return via two stops. He contacted  AMEX to raise  a S75 claim on the grounds that 
he thinks the airline breached the terms of its contract with him for not providing  him with the 
return flight.
AMEX rejected Mr Hs claim as it said that the airline had explained Mr H had missed  the 
deadline for check-in, so he was offloaded  from the flight. AMEX  didnt  think there was 
anything to suggest that the airline had breached the terms of the contract.  It said that the 
terms of the contract  set out that it was Mr Hs responsibility to ensure that he gave  enough 
time to ensure  they arrived on time.
Mr H also didnt think he should  have  had to make any payments on the account until his 
S75 claim  was resolved.  AMEX subsequently  cancelled Mr Hs credit card account  because 
it said that Mr H hadnt  made any payments on the account for a number of months.
Mr H didnt agree with AMEXs conclusion. He said that hed arrived  four hours before the 
flight was due to leave, so he maintains that he did leave enough  time to make the flight. He 
also said that AMEX  had told him that he didnt need to make  any payments while the matter 
was in dispute. So he thinks its unfair  that it has cancelled his card. He also said the file 
handler had been negative and unhelpful  towards him.
AMEX maintained that there wasnt anything to show the airline had breached  the terms and 
conditions of the contract. And it said Mr H hadnt  given it anything  to show  hed missed the 
flight due to anything  the airline  did wrong. It also didnt think  it had told Mr H he didnt need 
to make any payments.  And it said it had cancelled the card in line with its terms and 
conditions. It also said it had tried to discuss the outstanding balance  with Mr H a number of 
times, but it said he didnt  want  to discuss it.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2020  not upholding this complaint. And I said the 
following:
AMEXs handling of Mr Hs S75 claim
 
Mr H bought his flights using his AMEX credit  card. Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974 (S75)  sets out that in certain  circumstances, as the credit  provider, AMEX may be held 
jointly liable for any breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied 
those circumstances  apply here.  
Ref: DRN99713702The issue  I have to decide is whether AMEX has handled Mr Hs S75 claim fairly and in 
particular whether it was fair for it to say that the airline hadnt breached  the terms of its 
contract with Mr H. 
Theres no dispute that Mr H missed his flight and that hes lost out as a result.  I sympathise 
with Mr H because it appears  hes lost out due to no fault of his own. But it was fair for 
AMEX to say that to uphold Mr Hs S75 claim for Mr H, he needs to show  that the airline had 
breached the terms of its contract with him.
The airline had contracted  with Mr H to provide him a return  flight. Im satisfied that it did 
provide this flight, but Mr H didnt make the flight because of issues within the airport. I have 
to be satisfied that he missed the flight due to something the airline did wrong and in 
particular whether it provided the service it was required  to carry out.
Mr H has told us that he missed the flight because of security issues at the airport and the 
number of people  using the airport at the time. This meant that he arrived  at the check-in 
desk late. Mr H says that the airline  refused to fly him home. But it appears  he wasnt  able to 
use the return flight because he arrived at the gate too late  not because of anything the 
airline did wrong. I appreciate that this was down to something  out of Mr Hs control. But it 
wasnt down to anything  the airline  did, so I dont think it was unfair for AMEX  to say it wasnt  
liable for his losses under S75. 
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show  the airline breached the terms of its contract with 
Mr H. While I naturally  sympathise with the situation  Mr H found himself  in, I cant say that it 
was unreasonable for AMEX to not uphold Mr Hs S75 claim on the grounds  that it didnt 
think the airline had breached the terms of the contract.
cancellation of Mr Hs credit card
I note Mr H thinks its unfair that AMEX cancelled  his credit card account  as he thinks he 
shouldnt have had to make payments towards  the account until the S75 claim was resolved. 
But the terms of his contract  with AMEX required him to make at least the minimum monthly 
payment towards  the account every  month. I appreciate  Mr H felt strongly about this 
situation but he was required to keep  up with his monthly payments. 
The terms of the contract  also set out that AMEX was entitled  to cancel the agreement with 
immediate effect  if he repeatedly  missed the minimum payment. I can see that Mr H didnt 
make a payment  towards his card in November and December 2018.  AMEX wrote to Mr H 
on 24 December 2018 advising that it would cancel the agreement  with immediate effect if 
he didnt make the minimum payment due within 14 days. He didnt  do so, so AMEX 
cancelled the card on 15 January 2019.
I note Mr H says that AMEX told him that he didnt have to make any payments towards his 
account. But I havent seen anything to support  this. AMEX doesnt  have the call recordings 
for that time any longer  due to the passage of time. So Ive looked at the file notes to 
understand whats most likely to have been  said and I havent seen anything to suggest that 
AMEX would have  told him he didnt need  to make  this payment. I also think  its unlikely it 
would have said as such.
Mr H hadnt paid anything  towards the card for almost three months by the time AMEX  
cancelled the card. Im also satisfied that it gave Mr H sufficient notice that it would do so. So 
I cant say that AMEX has acted unfairly in the way its handled  this matter.
Ref: DRN99713703Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision and said he arrived  at the airport  with his
family four hours before his flight was due to leave, but because of the security failure at the 
airport they had to wait in the queue. He said he contacted the airlines desk and he says he 
was assured the airline was aware of the problem and it said it would not leave until all 
passengers were on board.
Mr H said he got through  around one hour before the flight was due to leave,  but found the 
airline representatives desk closed. He said he spoke with security at the airport  who said 
the airline had left earlier than scheduled, nearly  empty because  no more passengers could 
get through the security.  
Mr H said he had to pay over £3,000  to stay at a hotel for two days and to arrange further 
transport home. He thinks its unfair he had to do this.
Mr H said AMEX agreed over the phone  to stop payments  until the matter was resolved. He 
said he offered AMEX a final settlement of £350 pounds excluding  all charges and interest 
but AMEX didnt accept this. He says he and his family suffered a lot and he says the holiday 
was totally spoiled because of what happened.   
AMEX said it didnt  have  anything further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr Hs comments into account, but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in 
my provisional decision.
The key thing I have  to decide  is whether I think, based on the evidence provided, it was fair 
for AMEX to conclude the airline had breached  the terms of the contract. And I think  it was.
The airline has advised Mr H wasnt able to use the flight because  he arrived at the check-in  
desk late. Its clear Mr H and his family had a very difficult  and distressing  time at the airport 
due to the security  issues hes highlighted. He says he eventually reached the desk  an hour 
before the flight was due to leave. But, on balance, I think its most likely he arrived  at the 
check-in desk later than he was required to and after it had closed. I also dont think hes 
given me enough  to show the flight left earlier than it should have done.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I appreciate this was down to something out of Mr Hs 
control, but I dont think hes given  me enough to say it was unfair for AMEX  to say the 
airline hadnt breached the terms of its contract.
Ive also taken Mr Hs comments into account  that he says AMEX  agreed to put the account 
on hold. But I havent seen anything to support this. I appreciate Mr H is unhappy AMEX  
didnt accept his payment  offer. But, given  I dont think it was unfair for it to decline his S75 
claim, it was entitled to require Mr H to repay  the full amount payable on the card.  So I still 
think it was fair for it to cancel the account  when it did.
Ref: DRN99713704my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out below,  its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9971370