K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  provided poor service  after he made  a claim 
on his motorcycle insurance  policy. He says it didnt pay him enough for his written-off 
vehicle. Mr O is represented  by Mrs O.
background
Mrs O said the £1,800 Ageas offered for the bike wasnt  enough  to buy a similar  vehicle. She 
said Ageass agents engineer had only looked at one of the national  trade guides. She 
thought the modifications made  to the bike increased its market  value.  She said its colour  
was in high demand, and added £800  to the bikes value. She said similar bikes  in average 
condition in a different  colour sold for £1,713.
Considering the £1,363 spent on modifications  - plus the increase for the bikes  colour  
Mrs O said the market  value of Mr Os bike was £3,876. She didnt accept that the valuation 
should be affected by the bike having twice been  written-off previously or by the pre-accident  
damage the engineer found.
Ageas said the delay  in dealing with the claim was caused by Mr O not having  told it about 
the modifications, plus staff shortages. The engineer who valued the bike said the trade  
guide figure he found was £1,925.  But he said the bike was in below-average condition,  with 
some non-accident damage. He also noted its history.  He said its market  value was £1,500. 
Ageass engineer reviewed the valuation  and looked at a further  trade guide. Ageass final 
offer for the bikes pre-accident market value  was £1,800. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Os complaint. He noted that Ageas had apologised  for 
the delay in dealing with the claim. He checked  three of the national  trade  guides.  The prices 
set out in them ranged from £1,925  to £2,506  for similar bikes  in good condition. He thought  
a deduction of up to 20% for the bikes history and condition was fair. He said we didnt think 
the modifications or the bikes colour increased  its value. 
    
Mrs O said the policy  didnt say trade  guide  prices would be used. She said Ageas  had 
admitted that it didnt  consult a second trade  guide or instruct a second  engineer.  She said 
the policy wording  said the bikes specification was part of the market  value. To her, the 
changes made to the bike and its colour  were  part of its specification. She said Ageas hadnt  
looked at the prices  similar bikes were sold for. She offered to share her research on that.
The investigator said Mrs O couldnt show the bikes shed referred to were like-for like 
examples, given the history and pre-existing damage to Mr Os bike. He said Mrs O would 
need to provide independent evidence of the bikes colour adding  value.  Mrs O said it wasnt 
right not to use the definition of market value  set out in the policy. She repeated that the 
bikes specification included modifications,  plus its colour. She said the pre-accident damage 
to Mr Os bike was minimal. And she queried  how total loss markers could affect a bike once 
it was repaired.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN91272562We think the best way to find a vehicles likely market value is to look at the national trade 
guide prices. Theyre  based  on extensive nationwide research into likely  selling  prices.  This 
approach is standard across the industry. Ageass agent only looked at one guide, but 
Ageass engineer reviewed the valuation  and increased it. We checked that the figure  he got 
was correct. The investigator also checked  another two guides. The average price from all 
three trade guides  was £2,185. One of them was out of line with the other two. Without it, the 
average valuation  was £2,025  just £100  more than the sum Ageass agent found.
I think it was fair for Ageas to deduct a sum from the valuation  the engineer found, as the 
bike had been  written-off twice previously. Mrs O doesnt see why its fair, but we think  a 
deduction of up to 20% is acceptable. Consumers are likely to pay less for a bike that has 
been damaged  enough  for it to be written-off  than for one that hasnt. That applies even  if 
the bike has been fully repaired.  The sum Ageas offered meant  it deducted far less than the 
20% we think is fair. And although  the engineer noted pre-existing damage, Ageas says he 
deducted nothing  for that.    
Mrs O says the bike was worth more than Ageas  offered  because  of its modifications, 
accessories. She thinks Ageas didnt abide  by the policys wording as these were  all part of 
its specification. But they werent part of its original  specification  and adding  them  doesnt  
generally add to a bikes  value, as potential buyers may not see them as an asset.  I dont 
think Mrs O has shown that the modifications increased the bikes value. 
Mrs O says her research  shows  the bikes colour  adds  around 40% of the average valuation 
given in the trade guides to its value.  Recently she provided her evidence.  It shows the 
prices she says were paid for bikes of the same colour as Mr Os bike and prices for the 
same bike in other colours.  Im not persuaded by it. One of the bikes the same colour as 
Mr Os bike was bought  for the same price  as one in another colour. A similar  price  was paid 
for a bike with similar mileage in a third colour. I dont think  other examples in the list Mrs O 
provided are comparable because the condition of the bikes  is different. And I dont think 
theres enough information overall  to make  fair comparisons  between  the bikes.      
Part of the delay  and poor service Mr O is concerned  about  was on the part of his broker, but 
Ageas accepts that there was some  delay in it making progress with the claim. Ageas said it 
had staff shortages, which it apologised for. The claim also dragged on because  of the 
valuation dispute.  Had Mr O given  Ageas  full details of the changes  hed made to the bike at 
the outset, some of the work it had to do after the claim was made  wouldnt have been  
necessary. So I think  quicker progress  is likely  to have been made. Taking everything into 
account, I think Ageas dealt with the claim within a reasonable  time.  
As I dont think Ageas  acted unreasonably,  I cant uphold  Mr Os complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision before 
22 February 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9127256