K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Nationwide Building  Society (NBS) has applied  bank  charges to her 
bank accounts.  She says these charges have caused her problems and made her financial  
situation worse. She says shes in financial difficulty and NBS isnt treating her fairly. 
background
Miss B says shes experiencing financial difficulties. And she says this has been  made  worse  
by NBS. She says the fees and charges NBS applied to her accounts were high and unfair. 
And she wants NBS to refund them to her.
NBS rejected this complaint. It says the fees were charged to her account in accordance  
with the account terms and conditions. And it says Miss B didnt tell it she was in financial 
difficulty and her account transactions didnt give it cause to think  she was. But it has 
refunded some fees and charges when it learned of Miss Bs financial situation.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that this service  cant  look at the fairness of account  charges, but she told Miss B 
that we can look at whether a bank has acted  sympathetically towards a customer in 
financial difficulty. She said shed looked at her contact history notes and couldnt see that 
Miss B had told the bank about  her financial difficulties  so she didnt think NBS had been 
unfair and it didnt need to refund Miss B any additional fees or charges.
Miss B disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  Miss B says she is on a low income and has, on occasion,  
been unable  to purchase necessities such as food and electricity  because her money is all 
accounted for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I hope that Miss B wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Our rules allow  me to do that.
Miss B should note,  however,  that although  I may not address each individual point that 
shes raised, I have given careful  consideration to all of her submissions before arriving  at 
my decision.  Having done so I have to tell Miss B that I think the adjudicator has reached  the 
right outcome here.  And I think  she set out the position clearly in both of her views,  so 
theres very little I can usefully add to what shes already said.
A ruling  by the Supreme Court in 2009 said that current account charges cant be challenged 
because theyre unfair or too high. And although banks have a duty to treat customers  
experiencing financial difficulty positively and sympathetically, that doesnt  mean  they have 
to automatically suspend or refund  charges.
I have some sympathy with Miss B  she says the charges have had a severe impact  on her 
life So Ive looked at her account statements but Ive seen no evidence that the charges 
were applied other than in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. And because of 
Ref: DRN91084972the Supreme Court  ruling,  I cant find them to be unfair or excessive. Im sorry to disappoint 
Miss B. But it follows from what Ive said that I wont be asking NBS to refund any more  of 
the charges, as shed like it to do.
Im also satisfied that NBS wouldnt have known that Miss B was experiencing financial 
hardship before she contacted it to complain  about the charges  theres no evidence  of her 
contacting the bank  to tell it about her situation and her account spending doesnt suggest  
that the bank shouldve  known she was in difficulty.  Ive noted that NBS confirmed in August 
2018 that it had refunded the charges  as far back as December 2017 and credited this 
amount to Miss Bs account.  NBS has also agreed  a repayment plan with Miss B to help her 
manage the reduction in her overdraft facility.  I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances so I wont be asking  it to do anything more.
Miss B says that sometimes NBS honours payments  from her account leaving her account 
balance overdrawn,  but on other occasions it returns the payment and makes a charge for a 
failed direct debit. Ive looked closely  at the account  terms  and conditions; these state that 
when theres not enough  money in the account, NBS can decide whether or not to make the 
payment. That payment  may take Miss Bs account into an unauthorised overdraft. But it 
isnt under any obligation to honour  the payment if it chooses not to do so. And as NBS can 
determine its own account terms and conditions  its a commercial decision on its part  its 
not something that this Service usually gets involved  with.
I know Miss B will be disappointed that I cant uphold her complaint but I hope she 
understands why Ive reached this conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9108497