K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000 during a meeting.  Miss M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Miss M aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her credit  card. Miss M has told us that she wasnt aware  the policy was optional.  
I dont know for certain what was said at the time Miss M applied for her card and PPI but 
Barclays has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. Miss Ms credit  card application 
form had a separate section for PPI where the policy has been selected. There  was also an 
option to decline  the policy. In addition  to this the application form has been  signed by 
Miss M. So I think  Barclays made  it clear  that Miss M didnt  have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she may not remember  this.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Miss M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her. 
Miss M has told us she was entitled to generous sick pay when she applied for her credit 
card and PPI so she didnt need  the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to 
Miss Ms sick pay and for longer than she would have received  full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ms circumstances  at the time,  she wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the 
cover. So I think it was right for her.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Ref: DRN98850922Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9885092