K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  is about the service  provided by British Gas Insurance Limited in
relation to a central heating insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2019, part of which is copied 
below: 
Mr and Mrs W reported that the pressure  in their boiler was dropping causing the boiler  to 
fail on 4, 6 and 16 December 2017. The boiler  was checked [each time] and all said to be 
okay but British  Gas arranged to reattend  on 22 December 2017 to re-pressurise the boiler 
and put some leak sealer into the boiler system.  I understand  the engineer also noted a 
small leak from the boiler casing.
However, Mr and Mrs W reported  that water was continuing to leak from the boiler.  I
understand that an engineer was scheduled to attend between 12 and 2pm on 25 December
2017 but when they called  to check,  they were  told it would be later than this. Mr and Mrs W
had plans and so the appointment was then rearranged for the following day. Meanwhile,
water was pouring through the ceiling, causing  damage to the ceiling and furniture below.
When the engineer  did attend,  he found  a leak from the diverter  valve.  A replacement  valve
was ordered but the boiler was turned  off until it was fitted  the next day, so Mr and Mrs W
were without heating  or hot water. I understand however, that there were still problems with
loss of pressure  going into 2018  and British Gas attended again in March 2018 to repair  the
heat exchanger.
British Gas accepts that it is responsible for the damage to the ceiling and arranged for this
to be repaired.  It also offered  £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs W did not accept that this adequately reflects  the trouble  this caused them. Mr
and Mrs W say they were asked what compensation theyd consider fair and so suggested
£1,500, as the incident had ruined their Christmas.  They were  led to believe  this was
reasonable and then British Gas offered a derisory amount.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She recommended  that the compensation be
increased to £300.  
Mr and Mrs W do not accept the investigators recommendation. They  say that £300  is not
enough to compensate for the time taken  by British Gas to properly repair the boiler and
other issues, including sending them a letter addressed to another  customer; and the
investigator hasnt addressed the issue of damage  to an item of furniture which  British  Gas
had offered £145 for previously. Mr and Mrs W also said that the ceiling repairs  were  done
poorly and the stain can still be seen.
The investigator went back to British Gas about the ceiling repairs.  It sent the contractors
back to inspect the repairs. Initially the contractors  said it could not see any stain. Mr and
Mrs W said this was because he was coming  at times when the lighting was poor and that
the stain was clearly visible in normal daylight.  They also said the plastering was bumpy  and
uneven. They tried to capture this in photographs but it was difficult  to do so.
There was considerable further  correspondence between the parties and after at least  three
Ref: DRN97919302visits British Gas agreed that the ceiling repairs had not been  completed satisfactorily and
arranged to rectify the repairs to the ceiling.  I understand this was completed in March 2019.
As a result of all this, the investigator  suggested  that the final amount  of compensation
should be increased to £450.
Mr and Mrs W accepted this but British Gas did not respond, so the matter has been passed
to me.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that there were a number of attendances in December 2017 to try and
resolve a problem with loss of pressure in the boiler. I understand there  were  at least six
attendances in December 2017,  including one scheduled but rearranged  for Christmas Day
and then on Boxing  Day and then at last three  further attendances in March  2018 before the
work was completed.
Mr and Mrs W were without hot water or heating for periods over this time, as a result.  And
then on 28 December 2017 water was pouring through the ceiling and a more  serious  leak
occurred. British Gas accepts that it did not carry out the correct repairs before Christmas
and that this caused the subsequent leak and resultant property damage.  The evidence
seems to be that the repair  could and should  reasonably have been concluded on 22
December 2017  and all the trouble experienced after that could and should have been
avoided. This includes  not just the proper repair to the boiler but also the repairs  to the 
ceiling, which were  not finally satisfactorily  completed until March  2019. The issue for me to 
determine therefore is the appropriate compensation over and above  rectifying  the damage 
caused to the property.
Mr and Mrs W had the inconvenience  of several unproductive appointments, in the run up to
Christmas; continuous  problems with their boiler  not working properly for a few weeks;  then
a large leak over Christmas, causing  damage to their property; having  to deal with the
repairs to their property and then having to have the repairs redone properly. This all went
on for considerable time and will undoubtedly have  resulted in distress  and inconvenience.
Overall, I consider that the sum of £600  is more appropriate to reflect the distress  and
inconvenience caused to them by all this. I also agree that British Gas should  pay the £145
already offered in relation to the furniture unit.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require  it to pay
Mr and Mrs W the sum of £600  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by
its handling of their claim and the sum of £145 compensation for the damage to the furniture
unit (if not paid already).
Ref: DRN97919303responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
Mr and Mrs W have  confirmed they accept  my provisional decision and have nothing further 
to add. British Gas has also responded and confirmed it accepts my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  confirmed they accept  my provisional decision, and no new information  
has been provided, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay
Mr and Mrs W the sum of £600  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by
its handling of their claim and the sum of £145 compensation for the damage to the furniture
unit (if not paid already).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to
accept or reject my decision  before  13 January 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9791930