K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003. Mr G says Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax at the time) mis-sold  him the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland as BoS throughout this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.  
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr G says he didnt know that PPI had been added to his credit  card account. I dont doubt 
the honesty of this recollection. But Im not persuaded thats likely to have been the case 
given the information available.
BoS has provided us with copies of the credit card application form and credit agreement 
that Mr G completed at the time of sale  copies of which we have shared with Mr Gs 
representative. These documents indicate that he took PPI when  there was the opportunity 
not to take it. And as the documents were signed  by Mr G not far from where  PPI was 
presented, I think the evidence in front of me suggests he agreed  to take the policy  knowing 
he didnt have to as theres  nothing persuasive  to suggest otherwise.
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mr G  which means  it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for him. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Gs circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was right for him. 
He doesnt appear  to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover  
that was available. And based on what hes told us about his sick pay and ability  to keep up 
with his repayments using other means,  he seems  to have  had a need for the cover.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mr G clear information. 
So thats what Ive looked at next.
 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr G about  the policy wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But for the reasons Ive already given, he chose  to take PPI - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. And, for the same  reasons I think the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation to have  made, I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put 
him off taking it out as it looks like it would have been useful if something went  wrong.
This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mr G paid for the policy.  But BoS has 
offered to give Mr G back some of the cost of the PPI. And in light of what Ive said above, 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Unless BoS has already  paid Mr G, it will make the necessary arrangements  now that Ive 
issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN98815982my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9881598