K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declared his car a total loss when 
he claimed under his car insurance policy. And didnt allow him to buy it back  before it was 
scrapped. 
background
For ease, in my decision I will refer to Acromas when talking about their agents  or 
representatives.
Mr T had a car insurance policy with Acromas. In late 2018  he was involved in a collision 
and his car sustained  damage.
Mr Ts car was recovered from the roadside and assessed by Acromas to see if the damage 
could be repaired.  Acromas said that the car was beyond economical repair and so had to 
be recorded as a total loss.
In early December Acromas made a settlement offer for Mr Ts car of £1900.  Mr T didnt 
accept this offer, as he said hed seen similar cars advertised for a higher price. 
Mr T enquired about buying the car back from Acromas,  but they said this could only be 
discussed once  a settlement figure  was agreed.
A few days  later Acromas  again spoke to Mr T. They had looked at further  valuation  tools  
and made  a revised offer of £1930. Again,  Mr T was not happy to accept the offer. Mr T 
supplied Acromas with some adverts of similar cars to his for sale.
Two weeks later Acromas  called Mr T with a third offer.  Acromas  said that they had 
considered Mr Ts research and conducted  their own research of the market.  Acromas 
offered a settlement of £3000  for Mr Ts car. Mr T accepted the offer but at the same  time 
raised a concern that he had missed  out on a scrappage scheme deal due to the time it had 
taken to come to an agreement. Acromas informed Mr T that the car would be disposed of.
Acromas paid Mr T the settlement figure and disposed of the car.
In early 2019 Mr T complained that Acromas had not given him the option to buy back his 
car. So, he had subsequently  lost out on trading it in through  a scrappage scheme  or 
repairing the vehicle  himself. He was also unhappy that Acromas had not repaired the 
vehicle and recorded it as a total loss.
In response, Acromas  said Mr T was informed in his first call that he would need to discuss 
the buying his car back when a settlement figure was agreed.  And when Mr T agreed the 
settlement figure on the third call and was told that the car would be sent for disposal 
he didnt ask to buy the car back at that time.  Acromas also said that the car was beyond 
economical repair, so it was declared  a total loss in line with the terms of the policy. 
So, Acromas  said they hadnt done  anything wrong.
Mr T remained unhappy and so brought his complaint  to us. Our investigator  read through  
the reports and listened to the calls between Mr T and Acromas. She concluded  that 
Acromas had acted reasonably in saying the car was beyond  economical repair. She also 
felt that Acromas had told Mr T how to buy back his car if he wished to do so.
Ref: DRN99272582Mr T remained unhappy, so the case has been  passed onto me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered if Acromas were right to say that the car couldnt be repaired and so had 
to be recorded  as a total loss. Acromas had the car assessed by an engineer to establish  
exactly which parts were damaged and to give an estimate of the cost of repairing them. 
The engineer has provided a report, which shows the estimated cost of repair  was more  than 
the estimated  value  of the car. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy are quite  clear - Acromas would repair the car unless  
the damage was beyond  economical repair. I appreciate that Mr T feels the damage  was not 
severe, but I think it was reasonable  for Acromas to rely on the report  from their engineer 
who has expertise in this area. So, I dont think Acromas did anything  wrong  in saying the 
car was beyond economical repair and recording it as a total loss.  
The policy also says if the insured  car is declared a total loss and Acromas pay-out it will 
become their property.  But Id still have expected Acromas to allow Mr T to buy the damaged 
car back at what it would have got for it under their salvage scheme.
Mr T said that he wasnt given the opportunity to buy back his car once it was declared a 
total loss. I have listened to the calls between Acromas and Mr T in late 2018  about the 
settlement of his claim. In the first call, Mr T enquired about  how much the car would cost if 
he wanted to buy it back. Acromas  made  it quite clear that Mr T needed to discuss this when 
a settlement offer was agreed, as the price  would depend on what  the settlement agreement 
was. Although Mr T enquired about  how much  the car would cost to buy back, it wasnt  clear  
in the call that this was the course of action Mr T would definitely take. And it is clear  
Acromas were willing to allow him to buy the car back if he wanted to. 
In the second  call, Mr T made no reference  to wanting to buy the car back. 
During the third call, Mr T agreed to Acromas revised settlement offer. During the call the 
adviser told Mr T that the car would  be sent for disposal. Mr T asked if the car had already 
been scrapped, as he may have  wanted to remove the spare  wheel. And he also mentioned  
hed missed out on using it for the scrappage scheme. He was told it hadnt yet been  
scrapped and told to speak to a different department  if he wanted to discuss this further. 
Mr T thanked the adviser but didnt ask to keep the car or for it not to be disposed of. 
There is no evidence that Mr T made  any further  calls or requests to buy the car back  before 
it was disposed of.
So Im satisfied from listening  to these calls, that Acromas acted reasonably  and that Mr T 
knew if he wanted to buy back  his car hed need  to tell Acromas this when the settlement  
was agreed. 
Mr T complained that he had missed out on being able to use a scrappage scheme,  as it 
was too late by the time he agreed  a settlement figure. But, Acromas  first two offers  were  
made using  industry  standard valuation  tools so I cannot say that they were wrong to make 
these offers.  Once  Mr T supplied them with his own research on the cars value Acromas did 
consider this. They then revised  their offer to one, which Mr T accepted.  Mr T didnt tell 
Ref: DRN99272583Acromas of any time constraints before they called  him with the offer, and I dont think the 
time frame was excessive. So, I dont  think  its appropriate  to hold them  responsible for Mr T 
missing out on this offer. Also, as Ive already mentioned,  Mr T knew if he wanted to buy 
back his car he needed  to tell Acromas this when  he agreed the settlement. And, it seems 
that if hed done so on 20 December, it may still have been  possible for him to do this and 
take advantage of the scrappage scheme.  
In summary,  while I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr T, I dont think that 
Acromas have done anything wrong.  So, it isnt appropriate for me to uphold his complaint.     
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Tim Wilkes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9927258