K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) lent money to her that 
she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Miss D took out eight payday loans and one flex credit  
loan with QuickQuid  between April 2013 and July 2016.
Loan Type Amount Date Repaid Top ups
1 payday £150 27 Apr 2013 10 May 2013
2 payday £200 18 May 2013 31 May 2013
3 payday £150 5 Jun 2013 14 Jun 2013
4 payday £200 20 Jun 2013 28 Jun 2013
5 payday £300 3 Jul 2013 26 Jul 2013 £100 (6 Jul )
6 payday £200 5 Aug 2013 4 Sep 2013 £200 (6 Aug)
£100 (12 Aug)
£100 (18 Aug)
7 Flex credit 13 Sep 2013 13 Mar 2015
8 payday £150 10 Jul 2015 31 Jul 2015
9 payday £700 29 Jul 2016 7 Sep 2016
Miss D says that at the time of the loans  she was in a vulnerable  situation.  She says she 
initially took out small loans but the amounts increased and she became dependent  on the 
borrowing. She says the loans  and the flex credit account were  unaffordable and she had to 
take out new loans to repay existing debt.  
Miss D also says that during the time she was borrowing  and after she would receive contact 
from QuickQuid encouraging her to take out more loans.
QuickQuid says Miss D didnt inform it about  her financial hardship. It says that before loans 
one to four were  provided it gathered information from credit  reference agencies. It says that 
Miss D repaid the loans with no issues. It says loans  five and six were  for larger  amounts  but 
again these were repaid without issues. Loan seven was a flex credit  loan with a £900 limit 
and it says the checks carried out before this was provided didnt raise any concerns. 
There was then a gap of 119 days before the next loan was provided and a further gap of 
364 days between loans  eight and nine. It says appropriate  affordability checks  were  carried 
out before  these  loans were provided including validating Miss Ds Income and expenses.
Our adjudicator said that he hadnt seen  enough  evidence to say that loans one to six 
shouldnt have been provided. However  he didnt think  that the second and third top-ups to 
loans six and subsequent loans should have been  lent.
QuickQuid didnt accept  our adjudicators view. It noted the comments  about  the second  top 
up for loan six and loan nine repayments  accounting  for a substantial amount of Miss Ds 
income but said that evidence hadnt  been  provided to show the loan repayment  meant  she 
couldnt meet her priority  outgoings. It said large  repayments didnt  necessarily mean the 
loans were unaffordable. It also said that the number of loans also didnt mean  that the 
lending was unsustainable. It said it that without  looking at the circumstances surrounding 
each loan it wasnt possible  to say lending was unsustainable. 
Ref: DRN91637372my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Miss D could  sustainably repay  her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
The early  loans in this case were provided  before CONC.  At that time the relevant  guidance  
was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this also set out the need to make  a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower  can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner.  This refers to issues such as being able to the make  the repayments  
without undue difficulties  throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
security or assets. It then further sets out that without  undue difficulty  means without having 
to borrow further.
Ref: DRN91637373Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that loans one to six shouldnt 
have been provided. Based on what I have seen  I agree with this. 
Loans one to four were for relatively  low amounts compared to Miss Ds declared income. 
Loan five was for a higher  amount £300 and was topped up with a further £100. I think  that 
before this loan was provided further  information should have been gathered to ensure it 
was affordable. However, based on what I have seen and I do not find it unreasonable that 
this loan or loan six (plus  the first top up) was provided. 
By the time of the second top up of loan six, the highest repayment amount was a 
substantial amount compared to Miss Ds income.  I think this should have raised  concerns 
that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable. The loan was then topped up for a third time 
which increased the highest repayment amount to around 50% of Miss Ds income.  Overall  I 
think that from the second top up of loan six, QuickQuid  should have realised that there was 
a significant risk that Miss D wouldnt have been able to meet her existing commitments  
without having  to borrow again.  
By the time the seventh loan was provided,  I think Miss Ds overall pattern of borrowing 
suggested she had become persistently reliant on short-term loans. This loan was her 
seventh in a five month period and the amounts she was borrowing were not decreasing.  
Given this I think that loans seven and eight  shouldnt have been provided.
Overall, I think that Miss D lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from 
the top up of loan six through  to loan eight. These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging 
Miss D's indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive  credit intended for short  term use 
over an extended period  of time. The sheer number of loans was likely to have  had negative  
implications on Miss D's ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market  for 
these high-cost loans
There was then a break  in lending between the repayment of loan eight and loan nine being 
provided. Given this I think it reasonable to consider loan nine as part of a new lending 
chain. 
Loan nine was for £700. At the time of this loan Miss Ds monthly  income was recorded  as 
£2,000 and her expenses  as £1,075.  This gave Miss D a disposable  income of £925,  
although it appears that other credit commitments were noted  decreasing  this amount. The 
repayment amount  for loan nine was £924. This repayment amount was a substantial  
amount compared  to Miss Ds income and given it accounted for all or more  than her 
disposable income I think that QuickQuid should have realised this loan wasnt  sustainably  
affordable. 
Ref: DRN91637374my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to the second  top up of loan six 
onwards. CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Miss D paid on the second top up of loan six 
onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan sixs second and third top-up loans from 
Miss Ds credit file, along with any negative information about  loan nine;
the number  of loans taken and the pattern of lending seen by loan seven means any 
information recorded about loans  seven to eight is adverse. So all entries  about  loan 
seven and eight  should be removed from Miss Ds credit file.
*HMRC requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest.  If Miss D asks for a
certificate showing how much tax has been  taken off, QuickQuid should provide this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9163737