K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  hasnt paid interest on her ISA 
account for the day it was closed. She wants them to pay compensation for the delays and a 
correction in interest.
background
In August  2018,  Ms H transferred her ISA account  with Halifax  to another  bank. Halifax  
received the request to transfer on 20 August 2018,  and sent payment for the balance of 
Ms Hs ISA to the new bank on 21 August  2018.
Ms H says she stopped  earning daily interest on the ISA with Halifax on 20 August 2018,  
and didnt start earning interest with the new bank until 22 August  2018.  So she feels she 
has lost out on a days interest.
Halifax explained they have 15 working days to carry out the ISA transfer. And their terms 
and conditions state they will pay interest on the ISA up until the working day before funds 
are withdrawn. But they did recognise  Ms H was told incorrect  information about receiving 
interest for 21 August 2018   so they paid her £15 compensation  and £9 to cover the call 
costs she had to make.
The investigator who looked at Ms Hs complaint  didnt think  Halifax needed to do anything  
differently. He said under the terms of the ISA, Halifax didnt need to pay interest  for 
21 August 2018.  And because theyd already paid a total of £24 for the incorrect information 
and call costs incurred,  he didnt  think they needed  to pay more compensation.
Ms H responded and said under  the Payment Services Directive  2 Halifax  are required to 
supply information  after the initiation of payment order. But they didnt send Ms H details of 
when they made the payment so the new bank  wont pay. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Im satisfied Halifax received Ms Hs transfer request on 20 August 2018. And Ive seen 
evidence to show the payment for the balance of the account was transferred to the new 
bank on 21 August 2018.
I understand Ms H is unhappy Halifax didnt pay her interest for 21 August 2018.  Ive 
considered Halifaxs  terms and conditions. Section 9.3 states;
If you make  a withdrawal from your account,  we pay interest  on the amount  of the 
withdrawal up to and including the day before it leaves your account
I find this term to be fair and clear.  And I consider Halifax has acted in line with their terms 
and conditions by not paying  interest  on 21 August 2018. They  did pay interest for 
20 August 2018  and thats all they needed to do under the terms of the account. 
Ref: DRN91313862Ive also considered the guidance Ms H provided about Cash  ISA transfers. Ms H says that, 
according to the regulations, any payment delay or incorrect execution  of ISA transfer 
payment caused,  Halifax would  need to rectify interest losses. However,  I dont agree. And 
thats because  Im not satisfied there  was a payment delay  Halifax had 15 working days to 
make the transfer   and they did so the next working day. 
Ive also considered the impact Ms H suffered if Halifax should have paid the interest.  And I 
recognise theyve  paid her a total of £24 compensation.  £15 is to recognise the incorrect  
information she was told (that she would receive  interest for 21 August 2019), and £9 is to 
cover the calls she had to make in relation  to this. So even if I found Halifax had acted  
incorrectly, I consider the compensation  payment fairly reflects the loss Ms H would have 
incurred. 
Overall, I consider Halifax acted in line with the terms of the account when transferring 
Ms Hs ISA. And Im satisfied they acted  in line with the timeframes  of sending the funds to 
the new bank.  I also think their compensation payment fairly recognises the inconvenience 
caused to Ms H  and puts her back into the financial position she would have been in, had 
she not been given incorrect information. So I dont require  Halifax  to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9131386