K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about the balance of a catalogue  shopping account she holds with Shop 
Direct Finance Company  Limited, which she considers to be incorrect. Ms M also complains 
that the account has been used fraudulently and that insurance cover should have been  
given to her. 
background
Ms M has a catalogue shopping account  with Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop 
Direct). She complained  to them in June 2017  as she wanted  to dispute the outstanding 
balance on the account. Shop Direct didnt uphold this and mentioned  that Ms M had 
allowed her daughter to place orders  on the account. 
Ms M then asked our service to investigate this. She mentioned  that her account statements 
for 2013 showed she owed around  over £6,500  but a statement she was sent in 2016  
showed the balance to be just under  £3,000.  Ms M said that the payments she had made 
within that period  of time didnt account for the difference  in the balances. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt  uphold Ms Ms complaint. She 
said that shed  looked at the account statements between 2009  and 2012  and hadnt found 
any discrepancies.  
Ms M didnt agree. She said she wasnt happy with the formatting of the account statements, 
that Shop Direct had waited a year before contacting her about not making payments and 
that our investigator hadnt sent her a specific breakdown of how shed checked the 
statements in respect of the balances owed. Our investigator explained that she didnt agree 
that payment  hadnt been made for a year which Ms M seemed to accept. And she 
explained that it wasnt for our service to tell Shop Direct how to format their statements.  
Since this time, Ms M and our investigator  have  exchanged opinions  on whether or not there 
have been discrepancies  with the account balances over the years.  And both have gone into 
great and extensive  detail. Ms M still contends that the balances  dont add up. Our 
investigator still disagrees and also said to Ms M that she would only consider what  had 
happened on the account since  June  2011  as Ms M was out of time to complain about  
balances preceding this time. And our investigator also said that the purchases  made  on the 
account seemed  to be genuine. 
Ms Ms complaint has now been passed  to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill firstly  deal with our jurisdiction over Ms Ms case. The rules under which  we operate say 
that I cant consider  a complaint which is made more than six years  after the event 
complained of, or if later, more than three years after the date the complainant  was aware or 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware of cause for complaint (unless  the business consents  
or exceptional circumstances apply).  Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R can be found at the 
website https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/8.html or a copy  can be provided  on 
request.
Ref: DRN98578672Ms M referred  her complaint  to us in June  2017 which, from what  I can see, was when she 
complained to Shop Direct. This particular complaint concerned what  Ms M considers to be 
discrepancies with the account balances. So, taking this particular rule into account, if Ms M 
wanted to complain about the balances or purchases made on the account  prior to June  
2011, she would have had to have  done this before June 2017  to satisfy the six year part of 
the rule. So, because Ms M didnt do this, I then need to consider whether she either  
became aware  or ought to have become aware  of this by June 2014  at the latest  (which  is 
the three year part of the rule). 
However, I believe that Ms M at the very least ought to have been  aware  of what had 
happened on the account prior to June  2011  well before June 2014. All balances and 
transactions were  shown  on the account statements that were being  sent monthly to Ms M. If 
Ms M wanted to dispute what was on these statements, then she could have done so. But 
she didnt. 
I can though still consider  this part of the complaint  if there were exceptional circumstances 
why it wasnt brought  to us in time. I have though seen no exceptional  circumstances which 
would have prevented Ms M from referring  the complaint to us. 
So I consider that our service only has jurisdiction to consider the balances  and transactions  
on Ms Ms account from June 2011  onwards. 
Ive looked very carefully at the submissions from Ms M and Shop Direct. However, I simply 
am not persuaded that Shop Direct  has made an error with the account balance  from June  
2011 onwards.  I realise Ms M has taken a lot of time and effort to go through  the account 
statements to try to show us that there  have been errors. It simply isnt possible in this 
decision for me to go through  the sheer number of balances and transactions  that are on the 
account statements  from June 2011  onwards. But I havent been  convinced from Ms Ms 
submissions that an error has occurred.   
I dont think its realistic  for Shop Direct to be able to provide evidence  of every order,  return, 
confirmation and proof  of delivery and return for the period from June 2011 to when the last 
order activity occurred  which was around early 2013  in order to determine that an error may 
have occurred. 
I also think on balance that its more likely than not that the purchases  and orders  on the 
account were genuine.  Ms M allowed her daughter to use the account which  included  
placing orders. I think it highly unlikely that Ms M wouldnt have noticed transactions  on the 
account that werent either made by her or her daughter for such a long time before she 
raised this as an issue, particularly as the last order made was such  a long time ago. 
I think that raises enough doubt in my mind  that someone else was using the account of 
whom Ms M had no knowledge. 
Ms M has said in one of her recent  conversations with our service that she feels Shop Direct 
has concealed evidence.  Ive seen no compelling  evidence of this however. As far as I can 
see, there is a balance  owed by Ms M to Shop Direct and I havent seen sufficient evidence 
to make me think that this is incorrect. 
Ref: DRN98578673I would though point out that the outstanding  balance is quite significant. And it appears that 
Ms M isnt repaying this to the extent that this is reducing to any great  degree.  I think  Shop 
Direct needs to give serious consideration to this and assess  Ms Ms actual capability of 
being able to repay this in full. 
Finally, I note Ms M has mentioned that there  should  have been insurance cover in place on 
her account.  I havent though considered this as part of this decision. Ms M made this point 
to our service when she asked us to consider her complaint about Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI). We have looked into the PPI complaint under a separate  reference. So 
any concern Ms M has about insurance cover should have been directed to the person who 
was dealing with that separate case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9857867