K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains on behalf of his company firm S that Aviva  Insurance  Limited unfairly  
declined a claim made on firm Ss minifleet  motor insurance policy after a car was stolen.  
background
Mr N, his wife Mrs N and his son, Mr N2 bought a new car from a dealership garage in 
June 2018. In February 2019 the car was stolen  from Mr N2s driveway. In dealing  with the 
claim, Aviva asked for proof  of its ownership and registered keeper. Mr N was the registered 
keeper, but the purchase invoice showed that Mr N2s company  (firm A) bought  the car. 
Aviva said the car wasnt owned by firm S (its policy holder) and there was nothing to show it 
was bought as a business asset for firm S. It noted that the car wasnt purchased through 
firm Ss business account and that Mr N2 wasnt a director of firm S. It said there was no 
insurable interest under the policy, and cover had never been in force  for the car. It said it 
couldnt deal with the claim  and returned  the premium to firm S. 
Mr N said the family  had shown that firm S owned  the car. He said that he, Mrs N and Mr N2 
had all contributed  to the purchase, from their private accounts. But the garage had made 
the invoice out in the name of Mr N2s firm. Mr N said when he queried  that, the garage said 
as long as Mr N was the cars registered keeper, the name  on the invoice wasnt  important. 
Mr Ns broker  said the cars expenses were paid by firm S and that Mr N drove  the car.  
One of our investigators  upheld Mr Ns complaint.  She said the policy  didnt say firm Ss cars 
must be bought  though firm Ss account. She said Mr N had asked the broker to add the car 
to the policy  with him named as its registered keeper. She said as she couldnt be sure if a 
clear question was asked, she couldnt say Mr N had misled Aviva. Aviva said as the car 
was owned by Mr N2s firm, not firm S, there was no insurable interest  under  the policy.  The 
investigator said it wasnt clear that the broker told Mr N that the car had to be bought 
through firm Ss business account  and it wasnt a policy  requirement.  Aviva then asked for 
a review of the complaint by an ombudsman,  so it was passed to me.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the brokers  role is relevant to whether Aviva acted reasonably  in this case. It 
seems the broker acted for Mr N only in arranging for the car to be added to the policy with 
him named as its registered keeper. From what Mr N has said, that was in line with his 
instructions and happened  a few days after the car was bought. Theres  nothing to show  that 
the broker was involved in the purchase arrangements.  
The garages invoice  shows firm As name. Mr N says firm A isnt connected in any way to 
firm S. So it isnt clear why the dealership  garage would have used firm As name in 
connection with the cars  purchase, if it knew the car was being  bought  for firm S. Mr N2 told 
Aviva the garage  refused  to change the name of the purchaser. I think that was an unusual 
response from a dealership garage  and led to much confusion. In my opinion,  the garage  
could reasonably have been  expected  to ensure that its sales  records were  accurate.  
Ref: DRN92049922The certificate of insurance says any vehicle belonging  to the policy  holder (firm S) is 
covered. So I think  it was reasonable for Aviva to enquire about the purchase arrangements. 
It wanted to be sure firm S had an insurable interest.  I dont  think  the fact that Mr N was the 
cars registered keeper was conclusive, as ownership is a separate  matter. 
Mr N2 paid more than half of the cars purchase price,  but Mr and Mrs N paid the rest 
between them. Aviva hasnt said the car had to be purchased through  firm Ss account. But it 
says a car must belong to firm S for it to have an insurable interest. I can see why the 
invoice being  made out to firm A led to concerns on Avivas  part. But in my opinion, given 
that Mr N, a director of firm S, contributed to the cars purchase (as well as being its 
registered keeper)  means that firm S has an insurable interest  in it. 
I think Aviva  should reinstate the car to the policy and consider the claim,  as well as 
amending all records. As firm S has been inconvenienced as a result  of the claim being 
rejected, I think it would be reasonable for Aviva to pay £150  compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to do the 
following:
Reinstate the car to the policy and consider  the claim, subject to all other policy  terms 
and conditions and to Mr N paying  the appropriate premium
Amend all records to reflect the actions referred to above
Pay Mr N on behalf of firm S £150  compensation for inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N on behalf  of 
firm S to accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9204992