K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the service she received from The Prudential Assurance  Company 
Limited in relation to her pension.
background
Miss M has had lots of issues  with Prudential over the years which she complained about 
and some matters have been  addressed  and redressed to her satisfaction. She told this 
service there were two outstanding issues left she wanted us to look into: 
Shes unhappy with additional management  charges (AMC)  that have been applied 
to her pension. Miss M has two plans (Plan A and Plan B). Prudential told her the last 
AMC on Plan A would  be charged in 2017  and on Plan B in 2020.  Miss M thinks the 
AMC should stop a year earlier  on each  plan.
Miss M also complained that her statements from 1996-2004 didnt show  annual  
bonus rates.  The statement in 1995 showed  a bonus rate of 7.5%, so she assumed  
the rate remained the same over the years. She has now found out this isnt the case  
and the rates were lower. She wants Prudential to honour the bonus rate of 7.5% for 
the years  between 1996-2004.
Our investigator upheld  Miss Ms complaint in part. 
He agreed with Miss M that the AMC should  have stopped for Plan A in 
September 2016 and for Plan B in February  2019. He asked Prudential  to put things 
right by adjusting Plan A as if the 2017  AMC had not been charged and ensure no 
AMC was being charged on Plan B after February 2019.  
He also asked Prudential to pay Miss M £300 in compensation for giving her 
conflicting information about her AMC in their final response  letters  and causing her 
distress and inconvenience. He thought Prudential could have dealt with her 
complaint better.
The investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ms complaint about the bonus rates. 
Prudential disagreed with the investigators  assessment.  They say the AMC has been 
charged correctly and they also disagreed  Miss M should be paid £300. So the complaint 
was passed on to me for an ombudsmans decision.
Im aware that since our investigator  started looking into Miss Ms complaint, she has raised 
another complaint with Prudential. This will be considered  under  a separate reference.
I previously issued a provisional  decision upholding Miss Ms complaint in part. My decision 
differed slightly to our investigators opinion. After the investigators assessment Prudential  
had informed us that they had converted all A-type units  on Miss Ms plans into B-type units 
which resulted in no more additional  AMC charges  being charged going  forward.  The last 
charges were applied  in 2018. I didnt think Prudential had to do anything further in this 
respect. I also didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint about bonus  rates  and I felt the 
compensation for the service  issues  should be £150 instead of £300.
Prudential didnt reply  to my decision. Miss M disagreed and provided detailed  comments. 
Ref: DRN93479482I would like to assure  Miss M that I carefully considered everything she said. I will address 
what I see as the most pertinent  points below in more detail.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
charging period  for AMC
In my provisional decision I said:
The terms and conditions  for Miss Ms plans say (my emphasis):
Additional Management Charge
If the Policy shall have  been allocated type A units,  then, on the day preceding each
anniversary of the Date of Currency within the Additional  Management Charge Period
(as defined  below),  the Society  shall cancel  1.8%  of the type A units allocated  to the
policy in the Investment-Linked Funds and the With Profits Funds
The Additional Management Charge Period in respect of each Regular Contribution  
shall be the period  of 25 years commencing with the First Contribution  Date or. if shorter, 
the period from the First Contribution Date to the Selected Retirement Date.  However, if the
Policy shall be subject  to more  than one Additional Management Charge Period , ending
on different dates, the Society shall he permitted to extend some  such  Periods and to
reduce others,  in order that all such Periods shall end on the same date, provided that
such extensions and such reductions, taken  together, shall be considered by the Actuary to
be neither favourable nor unfavourable to the Investor.
At the end of the Additional Management  Charge Period, the Society may, at its
discretion, change all type A units to type B units.
Miss M made the following contributions to her plans:
Plan A: 
£50 per month from 11 September 1991, this contribution was automatically  increased by 
5% every year
Additional regular contribution of £40 per year from 11 July 1993
Plan B:
£66.66 per month starting  on 11 February 1994  with annual increments. Miss M says this 
should have been just another additional contribution to Plan A, but was for some reason  set 
up as another  plan.
Looking at the terms I think its clear that the AMC charging period is 25 years from the date 
of the first regular contribution. This would be 25 years from 11 September 1991 for Plan A 
(i.e. until 10 September 2016)  and 25 years from 11 February 1994 for Plan B (i.e. until 
10 February 2019). These are the dates Miss M thought would be correct.
Ref: DRN93479483Prudential say the plan terms mean every additional contribution, including annual  
increments, starts another 25 year charging  period. Prudential say the last increment  on 
each plan was applied in 2009, so the charging  period would be 25 year from that point (until 
2034) or if shorter until Miss Ms selected retirement date. Miss Ms selected  retirement  date 
is in May 2023, so Prudential says the last AMC would be charged  in September  2022 and 
February 2023 respectively.
The terms refer to an additional charging period of 25 years for each Regular Contribution. 
They also refer to a scenario where there is more than one Additional  Charging  Period on a 
plan, so I agree that Additional Regular Contributions start another  25 year charging period. 
Miss Ms original contribution of £50 per month  on Plan A from September  1991 triggered  an 
AMC charging period  of 25 years until September 2016. I think  Miss Ms contributions  of £40 
per month on Plan A starting in July 1993 is an Additional Regular Contribution which  means 
another 25 year charging period would start at this point and end on 10 July 2018.  
Miss M says Plan B should have just been  another additional contribution to Plan A. 
However, whether  as a new plan or an additional  contribution, her regular contributions of 
£66.66 per month from 11 February 1994 would have started another charging period. So I 
dont think this changes  how much AMC is being  charged and for how long. 
I carefully considered  whether the annual increments on Miss Ms plan would start additional  
charging periods  of 25 years each. For this to be the case they would need to be Regular 
Contributions or Additional Regular Contributions. The policy terms say (under R.10.3):
Any increase in a Regular Contribution (including any increase in terms of the Schedule) 
[..] shall be deemed to be equivalent to the commencement of an Additional Regular 
Contribution [].
So the policy  clarifies  that such increments to Regular  Contributions  are Additional Regular 
Contributions and therefore I think  Prudential were allowed to start another  25 year charging 
period whenever  the contributions were increased.
The last increment on both plans was paid in 2009, so theoretically  the charging  periods 
would continue until 2034. However, as Miss Ms selected retirement date is earlier  than this 
(May 2023)  any charging period would end then. So following the policy  terms Prudential  
could charge last AMC in September 2022  for Plan A and February 2023 for Plan B. 
Prudential have now informed me that- following a commercial decision to bring  their legacy 
business more  in line with current plans that deduct  charges  upfront they have  changed all 
type A units on these  kind of plans into type B units on 20 January this year. This includes 
Miss Ms plans, so this means going forward  no more AMCs will be charged on both of her 
plans. Ive seen  the latest  statements for the plans and the last charges  were deducted on 
10 September 2018 for Plan A and 10 February  2018 for Plan B.
Prudential has the discretion to change A type units into B type units after each AMC 
charging period  and I think  using this discretion is the fair thing to do. As Prudential  have  
now decided  to change  all A type units into B type units (even though some AMC charging 
periods have not yet expired), I think Miss M benefits from this decision. So I wont  be asking  
Prudential to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN93479484Miss M thinks  the terms and conditions  arent  clear  enough. She says R 4.6 only mentions 
additional management charges being applied to regular  contributions  and not to automatic 
increases. She also refers  to R 3.2 which relates to automatic  increases  of contributions  and 
which she feels hasnt been  considered.  
I can assure Miss M that I have considered the whole policy  document. Its correct that R 4.6 
doesnt specifically  mention automatic increases and only refers to regular  contributions.  
However, as with most policy  documents and as Miss M has suggested herself,  the terms 
need to be read in conjunction with one another.  
I understand Miss Ms argument that R.3.2  mentions automatic increases  separately to 
regular and additional regular contributions-so  it could be argued they must be different. 
R 3.2 essentially explains what  automatic increases are, when they are added and what  
index is used to calculate them. They are described as increases  to regular or additional 
regular contribution amounts which is correct. And if the policy  didnt make  any further 
clarifications, I think it could be argued that automatic increases are different to regular 
contributions. However, the policy does offer further  clarification  in R 3.1 in conjunction with 
R 10.3. 
R.3.1 explains that the amount of a regular contribution is specified in the policy  schedule,  
but may be varied  subject to the provisions in R 10. And in R 10.3 the policy  specifically 
states that any increase in a Regular  Contribution,  including any increase in terms of the 
schedule, [] shall be deemed  to be equivalent  to the commencement  of an Additional  
Regular Contribution of an amount equal  to the excess
I think R 10.3 makes  it clear that automatic increases are additional regular contributions. 
And as I explained in my provisional  decision the fact that R 4.6 refers to more than one 
AMC charging period  suggests that AMCs also apply to additional regular contributions. 
I appreciate that Prudential has given Miss M conflicting information about  this which  hasnt 
been helpful. And I understand Miss M thinks the AMCs on automatic increases should be 
refunded as the policy terms werent clear enough and therefore unfair. However, Ive looked 
at the policy  documents independently and I think the charging structure as explained above 
is correct. Therefore Im still satisfied Prudential are allowed to start a 25 year charging 
period on each automatic increase. And whilst I agree that like in many  older  policy 
documents-the information could have been presented more clearly, I think the relevant 
information is included  and I dont think Miss M has been treated unfairly. So I wont  ask 
Prudential to refund all charges that relate to automatic increases.
Miss M says that even if automatic increases  start a new charging period, it would only be 
the extra amount  that is subject to a new charging  period. And having  re-considered the 
information I have  I agree with her on this point.
R 4.6 in the policy states  that 1.8% of A-type  units will be cancelled  within  the AMC charging
period and that the AMC charging  period  is 25 years  with respect of each regular 
contribution. R 10.3 makes it clear  that the automatic annual increases shall be deemed to 
be equivalent to the commencement  of an Additional Regular Contribution of an amount  
equal to the excess. So while I agree that the policy allows Prudential to charge an AMC for 
25 years  from the last increase in 2009  (or until Miss Ms selected retirement date if earlier), I 
think once a charging period for a particular contribution has come to an end, the AMC
relating to this contribution should  end.
Ref: DRN93479485For Miss Ms complaint  this means the AMC charging period for her first contribution on Plan 
A of £50 per month would  have  ended on 10 September 2016 and the period for her first 
automatic increase (£2.50) would have ended on 10 September 2017. Her additional 
contribution of £40 would have ended in July 2018. So the AMC should  have reduced 
proportionally to the relevant contribution in September 2016,  September  2017 and July 
2018. 
I appreciate Prudential have now cancelled all A type units and the AMCs have stopped 
altogether from 10 September 2018 for Plan A and 10 February 2018 for Plan B. However, 
this was a commercial decision which affects all customers and wasnt an offer specifically 
for Miss M. So on reflection I dont think I can offset  the benefits  Miss M gained  as a result  of 
this commercial decision with any previous  overcharges on her individual policy.
Im satisfied Miss M wasnt overcharged  on Plan B.
Ive asked Prudential  to work out the number of A units Miss M was overcharged  on Plan A 
between September  2016  and 2018,  price  them on the day of this final decision and add 
them to her plan.  Prudential have agreed  to reinstate the amounts deducted in excess 
charges.
Miss M has commented on the fact that the AMC charging period of her second  automatic 
increase of £2.62 per month would have ended on 10 September  2018  and thinks  this must  
have been overlooked when setting out the excess charges. However,  all AMC charges  
stopped in September 2018  anyway, so I dont think she has been  overcharged  on this 
contribution. 
bonus rates
In my provisional decision I said: 
Miss M says her annual  statement in 1995  showed  a bonus rate of 7.5%. She says her 
following statements from 1996-2004 didnt mention a bonus rate at all and so she assumed 
the rate remained at the same level. She asked Prudential for the rates during these years 
and was informed  that that the rates continuously  decreased from 1998.
I dont necessarily agree with Prudential that they didnt have to show the bonus  rates  on 
statements for older contracts. If bonus rates were shown on Miss Ms statement until 1995, 
I dont think it would  have  been fair to stop showing  this information going  forward.
Having said that, I havent seen copies  of the relevant  statements from 1996-2004.  
Prudential couldnt  provide statements from such a long time ago which  is understandable 
and Miss M hasnt provided  copies either. So I dont  know whether the bonus rates werent 
disclosed during  these years.
However, even if I assume  they werent  disclosed, I wouldnt recommend any compensation 
here. Ill explain why.
Miss M wants  Prudential to apply a bonus  rate of 7.5% for the years between  1996-2004. 
However, Miss M would never have been entitled  to a 7.5% bonus rate from Prudential 
during these years, so I dont  think it would  be fair to ask Prudential to honour  this rate.
Ref: DRN93479486I need to decide whether I think Miss M wouldve done anything  differently if she had known 
about the decreasing bonus rates earlier. Our investigator pointed  out that when Miss M 
received a statement in 2005 which showed a much  lower bonus rate it didnt prompt  her to 
do anything differently, for example  try to transfer her pension  to secure a better bonus rate 
elsewhere. So he said there wasnt enough evidence to suggest Miss M would have acted 
differently if she had known about  the lower  bonus rates earlier.
I agree  with the investigator on this point  and Miss M conceded  that she might not have 
been able to secure a better  rate with another provider  without  a financial loss due to 
Prudentials transfer/exit charges.
Miss M later told us that in 2005 she had just changed jobs and her salary  substantially 
reduced. She says she couldnt  have  increased  her pension contributions at that point. 
However, if she had known about  the lower bonus  rate between  1996 and 2004-when she 
was on higher salary-she says she may have chosen to increase  her contributions.  
I appreciate that in hindsight-  Miss M thinks she might have increased her pension 
contributions. However, there isnt enough information for me to think  she actually would 
have done this. The bonus  rates already decreased between 1992 and 1995 (from 9% to 
7.5%) and Miss M didnt increase her premiums  then or tried to obtain  better  rates 
elsewhere. On balance its more likely Miss M chose her contributions in accordance with 
what she could afford  and I dont think the drop in bonus rates would  have automatically  
made her pay more into her pension.
In response to my provisional decision Miss M says she thought  she provided the annual 
statements to this service  and she said she definitely provided them to Prudential. Ive 
looked through our file again  and havent seen  any copies. However, as I said in my 
provisional decision, whether the bonus  rates are shown or not doesnt  change my outcome 
on this aspect of Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M maintains she would have made further  contributions to her plans if she had known 
the bonus rates had decreased between 1996  and 2004. I said in my decision that Miss M 
hadnt made any further contributions between  1992  and 1995  when bonus rates  had 
already dropped which of course  is incorrect and I apologise for this mistake.  
Miss M did make further contributions in July 1993 and February  1994  (as set out earlier in 
my decision). However,  I dont think theres  enough  evidence to suggest  she did this to 
compensate for falling bonus rates. I say this because  the first increase happened  before 
bonus rates  dropped from 9%. And Miss M increased her premiums substantially  in 
February 1994 (by another  £66.66) although the bonus rate had only dropped  by 1% six 
months earlier. So on balance I think its more likely that she made a conscious decision to 
pay more into her pension  based  on what she could afford, rather than as a reaction to 
dropping bonus rates.
Miss M also told us she started paying  into another pension plan with a different provider  in 
2003. She says her existing pension arrangements werent performing as well as she was 
expecting and she thought she would probably be left with a shortfall  if things didnt improve.  
In March 2003 there had been a drop in the final bonus which  made her take action.
Miss M says-at  a glance-  the increases year on year in the with-profit  units appeared ok, but 
as these included  her contributions over the statement period, the actual  profits were 
distorted and so she didnt realise  the bonus  rates were decreasing. I appreciate that this is 
the case but from what she has told us it seems  until 2003  she didnt have any real concerns 
Ref: DRN93479487with what she saw on the statements. At least  not enough to increase her contributions. So 
Im not convinced that even if she had known about falling rates (which happened over eight  
years) she would have  automatically seen the necessity to top up her pension  as the 
performance overall didnt  cause  her enough concern to make  additional  contributions until 
2003. 
I appreciate that Miss M made additional  contributions at several points. And its possible 
that she had even more additional disposable income she could have paid into her pension 
before 2003. However, for the reasons given above, I still dont think this means a drop in 
bonus rates  would have automatically made her increase her contributions. So Im not 
upholding this part of her complaint.
service issues
In my provisional decision I said:
I can see that Miss M asked  Prudential for information about the AMC and bonus rates in 
July 2017. After she received the information  she asked for, she explained  that her 
understanding on the AMC terms was different to Prudentials and complained  about  the 
non-disclosure of bonus rates in August 2017.  I agree with the investigator that 
communication from Prudential could  have been better and correspondence  between them 
and Miss M was going back  and forth for several months. 
I can see Prudentials explanations about how AMCs are calculated were incorrect on a 
couple of occasions (they kept saying the 25 year period would start with the first AMC 
charge and not from the first contribution  date), even though Miss M explained  in detail why 
she believed  charges should  stop earlier. And in fact until January  2018 Prudential didnt 
even mention that every increment would start another AMC charging  period of 25 years.  So 
I think Prudentials communications on this subject were dissatisfactory.
I understand that Miss M has spent  a considerable time writing  to Prudential about  these 
issues. As far as I can see this was mainly because  Miss M didnt accept Prudentials  
answers and kept asking  them to consider these points again. I think  this is understandable 
given the unsatisfactory answers given  by Prudential. 
I have no doubt  that that this would have been  inconvenient and frustrating  for Miss M. 
However, Ive also taken into account  that Miss M didnt  have to engage in extended 
correspondence with Prudential. I appreciate that she thought she could resolve this with 
Prudential directly and that is why she kept writing to them.  But I think she couldve referred 
her complaint to this service about  these issues and the bonus rates earlier  than she did.
So in the circumstances I think £150  compensation for Miss M is fair.
Miss M says that it wasnt really until June 2018  that she had an inclination  Prudential  felt the 
automatic increases started a new 25 year charging period. And it was only in February this 
year that Prudential tried to substantiate this in writing. Miss M says that if she had been told 
in 2017 that this was their interpretation of the policy terms, she would have brought  the 
complaint to this service  earlier  without the need  for so much correspondence.  Before June 
2018 she thought the disagreement was just about how the 25 year period was calculated.
As I said before, I agree that communications from Prudential on this subject were 
dissatisfactory and should have been  clearer much  earlier on and I do understand that this 
Ref: DRN93479488would have been frustrating. However,  I still believe Miss M could have prevented lengthy 
conversations with Prudential by bringing her complaint  to us earlier than she did. And Im 
not convinced  that she would have  referred her complaint earlier if Prudentials reasoning for 
taking charges for longer  had been  different. 
Miss M has pointed out that by disagreeing with the investigators assessment Prudential 
has prolonged the complaints process which caused even more distress and inconvenience.  
She says theres  also now a second  complaint against Prudential which wouldnt have been 
necessary if their service  had been acceptable  in the first instance.
Both consumers and businesses are entitled  to disagree with an investigators view and ask 
for an ombudsman to reconsider the complaint.  I appreciate that this causes delays to a 
resolution, however  as a service we dont  ask businesses to compensate  for delays  caused  
by following  our complaints process.  And whether  compensation  is due with regards  to the 
second complaint  Miss M raised,  will be considered separately.
Miss M also referred  to a case where the Pensions Ombudsman awarded much  higher 
compensation for ongoing administration issues. However, this service considers every  case  
on its own merits and my decision is based on Miss Ms individual  complaint and the 
information Ive seen here.
I understand Miss M has been  unsatisfied with Prudentials  service over many  years.  
However, when she complained to us in February  2018 she specifically asked us to look into 
two remaining issues, namely  the application of AMCs and the non-disclosure of bonus  
rates. Miss M became  concerned about these issues  when  she asked for some information  
from Prudential in 2017. Ive looked  at Prudentials service with regards to these two issues 
and I still think £150 is fair compensation for the dissatisfactory communication  in these  
circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part. I request The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to:
work out the number of A units Miss M was overcharged between  September  2016  
and September  2018
price them on the day of the final decision and add them to Miss Ms plan
pay Miss M £150 in compensation for the inconvenience they caused her
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9347948