K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Ferratum  UK Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 22 payday  loans  Ferratum provided to Mr H between September 
2016 and August 2018. He borrowed amounts between £100  and £350 with no significant 
breaks in the borrowing. Mr H repaid all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Ferratum disagreed. It made a partial  offer of redress  
but Mr H was unhappy with this and the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN98408892Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Ferratum asked Mr H for his monthly income which he said was £1,251,  and it carried out 
credit checks. For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts,  what was then apparent about 
Mr Hs circumstances and his history  with Ferratum, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr H provided or the information 
Ferratum shouldve been aware of, which meant  it wouldve  been  proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr H was saying. The loans looked affordable  and so I cant  say it was wrong 
to approve these three loans. 
But, as our adjudicator  explained, proportionate checks  for loans four to six would most likely  
have shown that:
Mr Hs expenditure for his regular living costs and other short-term loan repayments 
exceeded his monthly  income for loan four, making this loan unaffordable;
Mr H was gambling and had trouble managing his money when he asked for loans five 
and six. So he would  have been unlikely to sustainably repay  these and any further  
loans. 
So I think it was wrong for Ferratum  to have approved loans  four to six.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Ferratums lending history  with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Ferratum should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Ferratum should  have  realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because:
From  loan seven onwards Mr H was provided with a new loan within a short time of 
settling a previous  one. Hed already had seven loans  in eight months.  So Ferratum 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr H was having to borrow  further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Hs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr H wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Ferratum.  Loan 22 was 
taken out about  two years after Mr Hs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr H had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Ferratum over an extended 
period.
Ref: DRN98408893So I think the pattern  of borrowing showed  that Mr H was persistently reliant on short-term 
loans and this showed that the loans were  unsustainable. I think  that Mr H lost out because  
Ferratum continued  to provide borrowing from loan seven onwards  because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Hs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans seven to 22 and Ferratum  should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Ferratum needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans four to 22;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four to six from Mr Hs credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loans  seven onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans seven  to 22 should be removed from 
Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest.  Ferratum  
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. I require Ferratum UK Ltd to pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9840889