K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Harvey & Thompson Limited  (H&L)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two loans H&L provided  to Miss H between January 2017 and June 
2017. Miss Hs borrowing  history is as follows:
Loan Date  Taken Out Instalments Date Repaid Loan amountHighest 
Instalment
1 14/01/2017 12 21/06/2017 £300.00 £48.05
2 29/06/2017 18 outstanding £500.00 £59.62
Our adjudicator originally  upheld Miss Hs complaint about both these loans, but H&L 
disagreed. So, one of our other adjudicator took another  look at the case  and felt that only 
loan 2 should be upheld. Neither parties have responded to the most recent 
correspondence, so the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&L needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss H could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&L should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN99990392I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H&L was required to establish 
whether Miss H could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
H&L says it completed an income and expenditure check before providing Miss H with any of 
the loans. Ive looked at the details of Miss Hs loan and I think this level of check was 
proportionate for the first loan.  I say this because the monthly  repayments  under the 
agreement represented  a very small percentage of Miss Hs income and H&L had no prior 
relationship with Miss H which wouldve suggested she was in any financial difficulty. I have 
seen that H&Ls checks for loan 1 did show that she had defaulted on a credit agreement 
repayment within the last 12 months, but I dont  think this in itself was enough  to warrant  
further checks on a loan with such low repayments  relative to Miss Hs income. 
As our adjudicator explained, and I agree, by loan 2 H&L shouldve conducted a more  
thorough check of Miss Hs circumstances.  I agree that a more  thorough  check wouldve 
been proportionate because at this point Miss H was returning for her second  loan just days 
after repaying her first. And the amount requested for loan 2 was significantly more than 
loan 1. At this point  H&L had been in a lending relationship with Miss H for five months,  and 
the new agreement  was proposed for another 18 months.  In addition, the basic checks  that 
H&L carried  out at that time indicated that Miss H had taken out 14 loans with other 
providers in the last six months. This information  ought to have prompted H&L to conduct a 
more thorough check of Miss Hs financial situation for loan 2. 
A proportionate  check for loan 2 would  most  likely have shown that Miss H had regularly 
been gambling significant sums of money, and in my view, it would not be unreasonable  to 
consider that many  hundreds of pounds being spent  on gambling regularly would be a 
current financial situation to take into account.  Gambling is highly likely to lead to debt. And 
with a debt situation arising  out of, or contributed by, gambling, then a properly carried  our 
affordability assessment  was likely  to lead to a responsible  lender  to conclude that the loan  
or any subsequent  ones  - was not affordable  for an applicant in that situation.  And this 
coupled with the fact that it looks like Miss H had taken out a large number of short-term 
loans with other providers, ought to have led to H&L to realise that it shouldnt  have lent Miss 
H any further loans.  So, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint  about  loan 2 on this basis.  
putting things right  what H&L needs  to do
H&L shouldn't have  given  Miss H loan 2. If H&L have sold the outstanding debts H&L 
should buy these  back if H&L are able to do so and then take the following steps. If H&L are 
not able to buy the debts  back then H&L should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  
the results outlined below.
Ref: DRN99990393A.H&L should add together the total of the repayments made  by Miss H towards  
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  H&L have already refunded.
B.H&L should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss H which  were  considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss H 
originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.H&L should remove  all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made by Miss H as though  they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans.  If this results in Miss H 
having made overpayments then H&L should refund these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. H&L should  then refund the 
amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move  to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss H. However,  if there is still an 
outstanding balance then H&L should try to agree  an affordable  repayment  plan with 
Miss H. H&L shouldn't  pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal H&L have 
already written-off.
E.H&L should remove  any adverse information recorded on Miss H's credit file in 
relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires H&L to deduct tax from this interest. H&L should give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Hs complaint. Harvey  & 
Thompson Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9999039