K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains U K Insurance Limited unfairly  considered damage to his van as being two 
claims rather than one.
background
In October  2018 Mr H made a claim on his UKI van insurance policy.  He says UKI failed to 
repair all the damage  from the incident.  So the van had to be returned. Hes unhappy  UKI 
considered the repairs  to be two claims,  rather than one. Thats  caused him to lose No 
Claims Discount (NCD).  Mr H is also unhappy  that UKIs refused to take responsibility for its 
repairer damaging  the rear doors of his van.  
UKI says there were two separate causes of the damage, so two incidents and therefore two 
claims. It said the damage to the rear doors  was there before it recovered the van.  UKI 
offered Mr H £25 to recognise there  had been some inconvenience with a hire car service.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for UKI to record  two claims. He thought the rear 
doors were probably already damaged before the van went  to be repaired by UKI. And he 
said £25 compensation was enough  to recognise difficulties Mr H had with the hire car 
service.  Mr H didnt  accept the assessment. So the complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making UKI do 
anything differently.  
The repairs  have been treated as two separate claims. Mr H seems  to believe UKI did this 
as a result  of it failing  to record part of the damage when he initially reported it. But that isnt 
correct. Instead UKI feels the damage  resulted from two separate  incidents and causes. 
The drivers door was damaged by wind blowing it open. There was also damage to the 
passengers door. This happened around the same  time. Mr H seems to have  given two 
different explanations for the passenger  door damage. He said he damaged it by colliding 
with an object on his driveway when inspecting  the damage to the drivers door. Hes also 
said it was caused  by a cable he was using to secure the drivers  door.   
UKI feels these were two separate  incidents  so two separate claims. I think thats 
reasonable. Either explanation has a link to the original damage caused by the wind. But 
neither were  the direct result of it. Instead,  with either  explanation,  it was Mr Hs response to 
the original damage  that was the cause  using a cable or colliding with an object. So Im not 
going to require UKI to treat the repairs as one claim only.   
Mr H says UKIs recovery agent or repairer scratched the back  doors of the van. UKI says 
the damage was there before the van was recovered. For me to say UKI needs to repair  that 
as part of his existing claims Id need to think it was probably responsible  for it. 
The scratches have  been described  as vertical. UKI feels this means they might have been 
caused by ladders used to access the vans roof rack.  The recovery  firm noted damage  to 
the rear doors when  it collected the van. The repairer says the damage was already  there  
Ref: DRN90082792when it received the van. There are photos  taken by the repairer  when it received the van. 
UKI says they show the scratches were already there. But the copies Ive seen are too low 
quality to be of much use. Unfortunately  Mr H hasnt provided  any photos of the van before it 
was recovered.    
Considering everything  there isnt enough  to make me think UKIs repairer or recovery  agent 
probably made the scratches. So Im not going  to require it to repair them  as part of Mr Hs 
existing claims  or compensate him. 
Whilst Mr Hs van was being repaired he was provided with a hire car. Hes unhappy with the 
service provided. His complaints include there  being  a fault with the cars clutch. It seems 
the car was inspected  by a roadside  assistance firm - but no fault was found. Mr H also feels  
the car hire staff were rude. Overall I feel the £25 already offered is enough to recognise  the 
poor service Mr H might have received. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  U K Insurance Limited to do anything differently. 
U K Insurance Limited has offered Mr H £25. Thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances so my final decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay Mr H £25 if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Daniel Martin 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9008279