K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI). 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs R bought  the policy in 1999  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr R only for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £266.70 a month towards Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £17.50 a month. 
At the time,  Mr R was employed  as a valet. He has told us he was entitled  to at least  three 
months full sick pay should he be unable to work.  Mr R would also have been eligible for a 
redundancy payment if he lost his job. And Mr and Mrs R held some savings they kept for a 
rainy day. Mr R was in good  health at the time of the sale, though he has told us about  some 
medical issues he suffered some  years after the sale. 
In 2002 Mr and Mrs R took a further  advance on their mortgage. They updated  the PPI 
policy to cover an additional £236.47.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Rs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs R 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs Rs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Lloyds should 
have told Mr and Mrs R about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs R and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN95083202The information Mr and Mrs R received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN95083203The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs R with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policies were  appropriate  or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs R 
Ref: DRN95083204suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs R 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional. 
Lloyds has shown us copies of the paperwork completed at the time of the sales.  This 
includes both the original mortgage application  and the further advance application. On both 
these forms Mr and Mrs R have indicated they wanted to apply for PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs R knew the policies 
were optional and he agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds has told us it gave  Mr and Mrs R advice  and a recommendation to buy the PPI. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policies were appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policies were a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs R. It seems  Mr and Mrs R cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the PPI. This is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited information 
about Mr and Mrs Rs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the 
adviser took steps to establish whether Mr R would have been  caught by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policies did not fully meet their needs.  
For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds  considered whether Mr R had any pre-
existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mr and Mrs R given their circumstances.  
So Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mr and Mrs R, I do think its more likely than not that the policies were ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr R met the eligibility criteria  for the policies.
-Mr and Mrs R had a need  for the PPI  it seems  likely that Mr and Mrs Rs ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mr R was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for their savings 
and the sick pay and redundancy they say Mr R would  have been entitled to.
Ref: DRN95083205-The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs R. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mr and Mrs R. 
There was nothing  about Mr Rs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And although Mr R suffered illness  in 2007 and 2011 he 
has not told us about any pre-existing medical  conditions in 1999  and 2002 that could 
affect his ability  to claim. 
-
-There were  also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems.
-While  the policies  included a requirement that Mr R be disabled or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances, the fact the policies protected the mortgage repayments relating to 
their home and the potential consequences  should Mr and Mrs R be unable  to make 
the repayments on loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the PPI to enable them to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R were given a broad description  of 
what the policies  were intended  to cover (that is that the policies would protect  their 
payments if Mr R was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs R would have taken  out the PPI without any sense of what the policies were for and of 
how much  the premiums might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sales doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs R agreed to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were a suitable  recommendation for Mr and Mrs R Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policies it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs R all of the 
information they needed about the policies  to make an informed decision about whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Rs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN95083206-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs R about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs R have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs R? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs R suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies  to Mr and 
Mrs R. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs R suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs R would have still taken  out the policies, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policies it recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs R, I have found  that the policies were 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs R have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs R would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policies in any event.
Mr and Mrs R say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policies, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs R had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
R was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
Ref: DRN95083207As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at 
the time of the sales that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policies, it doesnt  appear  Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs R applied for the policies. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs R would 
have been told the cost before the policies started and they paid for the policies for a number 
of years,  so if the costs were significantly  at odds with their expectations  at the point  of sale,  
its possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs R would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meetings in which  they agreed to the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs R would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Rs 
expectations about what the policies  would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient 
to meet  their mortgage payment) were  significantly  different to what  the policies actually did 
 if anything, it is more  likely than not that the policies  actually  paid more  in the event of a 
claim than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs R thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr R knew  about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policies; 
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr R be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified them to do;
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and  exclusions above might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs R pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the 
policies werent  as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from 
taking out the policies.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policies were not fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr R was eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr R wouldve  been caught by any of the significant exclusions   Mr R 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions in 1999 or 2002  and was in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and 
Ref: DRN95083208Mrs R would have expected to make  a disability claim on the policies without first providing 
some evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr and Mrs R had known Mr R could only claim for disability if  he  was unable to do both 
his  job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr R was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs R that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than Mr R would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs R would still have thought policies that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr R be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policies. The policies allowed for multiple claims  to be made, it could help 
reduce their outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain  time, ensure their home was not placed at 
risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr Rs sick pay or redundancy money  for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would still have taken out the policies. The policies were  suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr R was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would have taken out the policies in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs R found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN95083209Mr and Mrs R believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs R in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policies they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs R compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs R think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policies in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  and 2002 when providing information  about insurance policies. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Rs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs R and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs R in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN950832010
Ref: DRN9508320