K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr M said he doesnt remember  agreeing to the PPI and didnt know  anything about it. 
His representatives said that he was led to believe it was compulsory. These are very 
different complaint points and its understandable that there  may be inconsistencies as 
these events happened so long ago. Halifax has said it would have made  the optional 
nature of the policy clear and would have  got Mr Ms consent to add the policy.  Where 
theres a dispute  about what happened, I have to base my decision on what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened  taking  into account all the evidence thats available.
Halifax has given me a copy of the credit card application form. Mr Ms personal details 
have been pre-populated on the application  and the PPI has been selected   whilst other 
equally prominent products have not. And from what we know more generally  about how 
Halifax sold PPI around this time I think its likely  there would  have been  a conversation 
with the Halifax  representative about  PPI prior to the details being entered on the 
application and Mr M has signed the application  so I think  this reflected what  he wanted. 
If he didnt want the PPI he could have questioned this at the time. 
PPI would also have  appeared  on Mr Ms monthly  credit card statements and if this was 
something he had not agreed to then I would  have expected him to question this sooner 
than he did. So overall I think  Halifax made  Mr M aware that he had a choice  about  
buying the PPI, and he agreed to take the policy at the time.  
From  what I have  read and been told I think Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it 
had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based on what  Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he seems  to have had a need  for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said but these  points  dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN92150852This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr M now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt 
done so already. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9215085