K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold a monthly  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss B took out a PPI policy  in connection with a credit card in 2009.
The policy cost 79p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It would paid 10% of 
outstanding balance each month for a maximum of 12 months  if Miss B was off work sick or 
lost her job. 
Our adjudicator thought that Miss Bs complaint should  be upheld. Santander didnt agree 
with our adjudicator  and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy document says that Miss B wouldnt be eligible for the policy if she worked fewer 
than 16 hours a week. Miss B has told us that she was working less than 16 hours a week at 
the time of the sale. 
Santander has asked  to see evidence from Miss B that she was working less than 16 hours  
as it says her wages at the time seem to indicate she was working more hours. I dont 
necessarily expect Miss B to now be able to provide us with evidence  of the number of hours 
she worked per week given that the sale took place 10 years ago. I havent  seen  any 
evidence which directly  contradicts what Miss B has told us about  the number of hours a 
week that she worked. And Miss Bs testimony about her employment  is consistent with the 
information Santander holds. I also note that the salary amount Santander has for Miss B 
could also have been possible for someone working  part-time.  
So all in all, I accept  that Miss B is more likely to have been working less than 16 hours  a 
week at the time of the sale. This means  Miss B wouldnt  have been able to benefit from the 
policy.
So I uphold Miss Bs complaint.
fair compensation
Miss B should put Miss B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.Miss B should  find out how much Miss B would have owed when she closed her 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN99371422So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Miss B should then refund the difference between what  Miss B owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Miss B can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Miss B should  add simple interest on the difference between  what Miss B would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
C.If  when  Miss B works out what Miss B would  have owed each month without  PPI  
Miss B paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, Miss B should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss B wouldve owed Miss B something  on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
D.Miss B should  tell Miss B what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Miss B to take off tax from this interest. Miss B must give Miss B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Bs complaint against Santander  UK Plc and require it to pay the 
compensation as set out above.
I understand Miss B is subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA). Miss B should 
bear in mind  her obligations to her Insolvency  Practitioner (IP) in respect  of any redress  she 
receives. A copy of this decision will be sent to her IP.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9937142