K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund disputed  cash  
withdrawals made from her account.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 30 December 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
it was most likely that the disputed withdrawals were made  with Miss Bs permission.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
13 January 2020.  But neither Miss B nor NatWest  have sent me anything new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has sent me any new arguments or evidence.  So having reconsidered the case, 
Ive come to the same  conclusion as before  that its fair for NatWest  to hold Miss B liable 
for the withdrawals in dispute.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Bs 
complaint about  National  Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97487982COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss B complains  that National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund disputed  cash  
withdrawals made from her account. 
what happened
Miss B has disputed making five cash withdrawals,  totalling  £600:
Two on 17 April 2017, totalling £250;
Two on 30 April 2017, totalling £200; and
One on 3 May 2017, for £150.
She reported  the transactions on 5 May 2017. According to NatWests  record of the call, Miss B still 
had her card with her and didnt think it was possible someone  had taken  it and returned it to her. She 
said she didnt keep a record of her PIN and hadnt disclosed it to anyone.
NatWest held Miss B liable for the disputed payments. They felt there wasnt a reasonable 
explanation for how someone knew  her PIN. They pointed out that the withdrawals were made  
relatively slowly, and the person making them  did not withdraw the maximum amounts. And the 
withdrawals were interspersed between Miss Bs genuine  payments.
Miss B came to our service.  She said shed  looked at CCTV  footage of one of the withdrawals and 
there was no one present  at the time.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold her complaint. Our investigator explained  it was 
unlikely an unknown person would  give Miss Bs card back to her or withdraw less than they could. 
She couldnt  see a likely  way someone learned  the PIN and repeatedly took and replaced the card 
without Miss Bs permission.
Miss B disagreed  with our investigators  opinion, so the complaints  been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im not planning to uphold the complaint  Ill explain why.
Broadly, Halifax can hold Miss B liable for the withdrawals in dispute if the evidence  suggests its most 
likely she made them herself or authorised  someone else to make them.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that the person trying to make the payments  used 
Miss Bs genuine card and the correct PIN. Miss Bs physical card was read at each transaction, and 
Im satisfied it was not a cloned card. This is not enough,  on its own,  for NatWest to hold Miss B 
liable. So I also need  to think about whether the evidence suggests  that its most likely Miss B 
consented to the withdrawals, or not.
Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided so far, I dont think  its 
unreasonable for NatWest  to conclude  that Miss B consented to the transactions. 
Ref: DRN97487983All of the disputed withdrawals used Miss Bs correct PIN, with no incorrect PIN entries. From  what  
I can see, Miss B has said that she did not tell anyone her PIN or write it down anywhere. She had not 
been sent any PIN reminder slips for as long as her account history goes back. The disputed  
transactions started five days after the last time shed entered  her PIN  and its very unlikely that an 
unknown person  overlooked her entering her PIN and then either  followed her for five days to take the 
card, or took the card and waited  five days to use it. So theres no plausible  way that an unknown 
person couldve learned Miss Bs PIN without her permission.
Further, these withdrawals  were  made for less than the maximum amount, and there were large gaps  
of time between  them. This also makes it seem very unlikely that an unknown  fraudster did this, as 
they wouldve been incentivised to withdrawal as much as possible as quickly as possible before the 
fraud was reported.
Similarly, it doesnt  look like the person making  the withdrawals checked the balance beforehand. So 
it seems they felt confident that these amounts of cash would be available. This also indicates  that 
this may have been someone  who knew Miss Bs balance,  rather  than an unknown thief.
Importantly, Miss B used  her card for genuine payments in between  the disputed withdrawals, and still 
had her card with her when she called  NatWest.  It seems very unlikely that an unknown thief couldve  
stolen her card on at least three separate occasions without  Miss B ever noticing. And I cant see why 
they would repeatedly give Miss Bs card back to her and risk being caught, or why theyd give it back 
to her without withdrawing  as much as they could.
So I do not think it is plausible or likely that an unknown person made  these transactions.
Ive also considered whether  someone known  to Miss B couldve done this. It is possible that 
someone close to her couldve overlooked her entering her PIN at some previous point, and might 
have been able to take her card without  her noticing.
However, it seems  unlikely that theyd  be able to take Miss Bs card and give it back to her repeatedly  
without Miss B ever noticing something was wrong, especially  when Miss B was using  her account  
quite often in between the disputed withdrawals.
Indeed, the disputed withdrawals were made on the same days as Miss Bs genuine transactions, and 
often in close  proximity. For instance, on 3 May, I can see Miss B made  a genuine payment less than 
two hours after the disputed withdrawal at a shop  down  the road. It seems unlikely that someone was 
able to give Miss Bs card back  to her without her noticing  on multiple  occasions, so close to when  
Miss B was intending to make  genuine  payments.
Further, we asked Miss B for details about who might have  been able to take and replace her card, 
such as the people she lived with. But she hasnt answered those  questions  despite us chasing  this 
up. And Miss B previously  told NatWest that she didnt think anyone could have used her card and 
returned it without her noticing. So it looks  like Miss B has herself  ruled out this possibility.
It seems unusual that Miss B didnt notice these transactions for 18 days after they started. Ive 
looked at Miss Bs online  banking history, which only goes back  to December 2017  because  of the 
time thats passed. But I can see that since December  2017 Miss B checked her online banking every 
two days  on average. So it seems unusual for Miss B to have gone so long without looking at her 
account here.  Based  on the available data, I mightve expected Miss B to have been aware of the 17 
April withdrawals much  more  quickly, and so to have reported them earlier if they were fraudulent.
The person who made the withdrawals used cash machines in the vicinity  of where Miss B lived, and 
used the same cash machines that Miss B used for her genuine withdrawals.  So it doesnt seem 
unlikely that the withdrawals in dispute were also genuine. And Ive not seen any evidence  that shows 
its unlikely or implausible that Miss B authorised them.
Ref: DRN97487984Lastly, I understand Miss B has said she looked at CCTV footage for one of the withdrawals and there 
was no one there. Its not clear how she accessed the footage   NatWest say they dont have it. Its 
been far too long for the footage  to still be available  now. And we asked Miss B if she could pass  on a 
copy of her footage,  but she didnt respond. So theres no way for me to verify what Miss B says she 
saw. In any case, its very possible that Miss B or the person who gave her the footage made  a 
mistake. For instance, Miss B might have missed  the withdrawal,  or been given CCTV for the wrong 
ATM or the wrong date or time. And based on what Ive got, I think thats the most  likely possibility, 
given that Im satisfied Miss Bs real card was used  for each  withdrawal.
In summary, Im satisfied  that Miss Bs genuine card and PIN were used.  Based on the evidence, 
there isnt a likely way that an unknown person made the withdrawals. Nor does it seem likely that 
someone known to Miss B did this without her permission. And the times and locations  of the 
withdrawals seem to fit with how Miss B otherwise used her account. So Im left with only one 
plausible possibility  which is that Miss B made the withdrawals or gave someone else permission to 
make them. This is not an easy message to deliver,  but based on the evidence I have so far, I think  
its the most reasonable  conclusion. 
So based on everything Ive seen so far, I think its fair for NatWest to refuse a refund because, 
overall, I think its more likely  than not that Miss B made or authorised the transactions  that are in 
dispute.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Please could  Miss B and NatWest send me any more information or comments to look at by 
13 January 2020. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9748798