K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that PayBreak Limited (PayBreak)  have  refused to cancel a course she 
financed through  an agreement  with them. 
background
Miss R signed up for an IT silver package course in January 2018. The course was to be 
administered by a company  Ill call G and Miss R financed the course through  a fixed sum 
loan with PayBreak.  But after only one lesson  she wanted  to cancel the course. She said 
she could no longer afford the repayments  and the course was unsuitable for her. She 
thought it was too IT based and she didnt have enough experience  of IT.
G offered  her 1 to 1 lessons but in March Miss R said she was still dissatisfied with the 
course. She explained  to us that shed expected to learn about  Excel spreadsheets but the 
course didnt cover  this.
She complained to PayBreak but they didnt allow Miss R to cancel. They  explained that the 
credit agreement allowed  her to cancel within 14 days but Miss R hadnt  told them of her 
wish to do so until later. They understood she was now struggling  financially and they 
therefore froze the fees and refunded  some  late charges. They  suggested that Miss R 
should contact  them to discuss a suitable repayment  plan.
Miss R was still disappointed so she referred her complaint to this service  and our 
investigator provided an opinion. She considered whether Miss R had been  misinformed  
about the contents of the course and the agreement had therefore been misrepresented to 
her. But she didnt think this was the case as there was no mention of the course covering 
Excel spreadsheets in either the enrolment  agreement or on Gs website where the contents 
of the course  were  explained. 
She also didnt think  PayBreak needed  to allow Miss R to cancel  as the contract  shed 
signed clearly explained  this would  need to be done within the 14 day cooling off period and 
Miss R had therefore been out of time. She said that when a business became aware of a 
consumers financially difficulties she would expect  them to be sympathetic and supporting  
and here she thought  they had been  as theyd frozen payments; refunded  late payments and 
were seeking to establish a more suitable  repayment plan with Miss R. So overall, she didnt 
think the business needed to take any further  action.
Miss R disagreed with the investigators view.  She said it was unreasonable to still hold her 
accountable for payments for a course  she was no longer attending.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss R but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN99766192Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made through a fixed sum loan which  
clearly states the services  or goods  being financed, as is the case  here, it might be possible 
to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974)  says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement  has a 
like right to claim  against the credit  provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss R made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
misrepresentation
Miss R says that she expected the course  to cover  Excel  spreadsheets  but it didnt. 
However, I havent been provided with evidence that the course  was supposed to cover 
Excel and neither  the enrolment  agreement  nor Gs website says this would be the case.
And even  if Im wrong  here I cant see that Miss R explored that issue in any detail with G. It 
seems she wasnt  happy  after the very first lesson and her initial request to cancel the 
agreement was made soon after. I dont think this was likely to have  been  enough time to 
understand the content fully.
breach of contract
The enrolment agreement  says:
fees for training  will only be considered  in the following  circumstances:
-Where a student advises of their withdrawal from the programme not less than 14 
days prior to commencement  of the package date
It also says:
should a student decide to withdraw from the programme before the package  end-date,  full 
fees are still payable 
As Miss Rs cancelation was requested  after the course had started, the enrolment  
agreement which she signed  would not allow her to cancel the course and payments are 
therefore due.
The finance  agreement allows a 14 day cooling off period during which  Miss R could have 
cancelled the finance but would still have remained liable for the course fees.  But as a 
request wasnt made within the cooling off period I dont think  it would be reasonable to 
suggest PayBreak  had done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN99766193financial hardship
When a business  becomes  aware that a consumer is struggling financially I would expect 
them to be sympathetic and positive. I think PayBreak have been. Theyve taken a number 
of positive steps to assist.  Theyve  frozen payments; refunded late fees and been prepared  
to discuss a more  affordable payment  plan with Miss R. So I dont think  their approach  has 
been wrong and overall, Im not persuaded that they need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9976619