K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about a short-term loan granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as Quick  Quid (Quick  Quid  or the lender).
background
The background to the complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated 10 December 
2018, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold this complaint. I asked  both 
parties to let me have their final submissions  within  a month. Mr H says he agrees with my 
decision. Quick  Quid didnt indicate  whether or not it agreed  with my provisional decision but 
said it had nothing further to add on the matter.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
evidence or arguments  for consideration, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions  set 
out in my provisional  decision. It follows that I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
As Ive concluded, Quick  Quid was irresponsible to agree  Mr Hs loan in October 2017. In 
order to put Mr H back in the position he would have been  in, had it not agreed to this, Quick 
Quid should: 
-refund all interest  and all charges Mr H paid for this loan (including  late fees and default 
interest charges);
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Hs credit  file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I am upholding  Mr Hs  complaint for the reasons  given in my provisional decision and 
require CashEuroNet  UK LLC Limited  (trading as Quick Quid)  to put things right as Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93366412COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H has complained about  a short-term  loan granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as 
Quick Quid  (Quick Quid or the lender).
background
Quick Quid  agreed one loan for Mr H on the 26 October 2017. The loan was for £400 to be repaid 
over the following three months in amounts of £931, £90 and £512.  
Mr H made his November and December 2017 repayments on time, then entered  into a repayment  
plan in December 2017 to spread his January 2018 repayment of £512 over four monthly  payments of 
£128 beginning in February.
Mr H made this February payment on time but didnt  meet his March repayment and set up a second 
repayment plan of five monthly repayments beginning in April  four for £75 and a final payment of 
£50. Mr H made his April and May repayments but didnt meet his June repayment.  Quick Quid  began 
to charge him default interest  from this point. Mr H made one other payment of £75 in July. 
My understanding is that as of the beginning  of October 2018, Mr H has repaid an amount of £585 for 
this loan. Quick  Quid says this leaves an amount  outstanding of £125 principal and £46 in default  
interest charges. 
Mr H says that he is struggling to repay this loan and that Quick  Quid didnt check  that he could afford 
to meet his repayments before lending to him. Mr H also says that Quick Quid  registered  a default  on 
his credit file, which has made it difficult for him to get credit elsewhere and has caused him 
considerable stress. 
Quick Quid  didnt agree  that it was irresponsible to lend to Mr H and it says it carried  out proportionate 
affordability checks before  agreeing to lend to him.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint  and asked  Quick Quid  to refund the interest and charges he 
paid for his loan. Quick Quid didnt  agree with this recommendation and so the case has come to me, 
as an ombudsman,  for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time. 
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when Quick Quid  lent to Mr H. The FCAs  
Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the high level standards which  all authorised firms are 
required to comply  with. PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) says A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related 
regulated activities.  It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such  as 
Quick Quid.  At the time, October 2017, these required lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.  
- CONC  5.3.1G(2). 
1 I have  rounded figures to the nearest pound.
Ref: DRN93366413CONC 5.3.1G(6)  defined sustainable as being able to make repayments without undue difficulty. It 
went on to explain  that this means the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments.  
So  treating  customers  fairly  in the context of providing  credit meant assessing their ability to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way. And how should lenders  have gone about making these 
assessments?
CONC 5.2.3  G said that 
The extent and scope  of the creditworthiness  assessment or the assessment required  in a given 
case, should  be dependent upon and proportionate to factors which may include one or more of the 
following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount  of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customer's credit history, including any indications  that the customer  is  experiencing 
or has experienced  financial  difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments including any repayments due in respect of 
other credit agreements,  consumer hire agreements,  regulated  mortgage contracts, 
payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications,  water and other major 
outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial  commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances  which  could  be reasonably expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer,  in particular  where the firm understands  the customer 
has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects  this to be so because  
the customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity  limitation.
CONC 5.2.4G(2)  said that
 A firm should consider  what is appropriate in any particular circumstances  dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being  sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk 
of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for 
credit relative  to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.2.4G(3)  said that
A firm should consider  the types and sources of information to use in its  assessment  which  
may, depending on the circumstances,  include some or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
(f) information provided by the customer.
It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify  exactly  how the assessment is to 
be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information  to use needed  to 
be enough to be able to reasonably  assess the sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer.  
In other words the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to 
Ref: DRN93366414the lender of not recovering the credit to its satisfaction,  but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the decision to 
lend. 
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders  assessment of creditworthiness  would likely 
need to be flexible  what is sufficient for one consumer  might not be for another, or indeed what 
might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might  not be so for the same consumer  in 
other circumstances.  
what should have happened  when Mr H applied  for credit and did Quick Quid  get this right?  
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential  risk 
to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect 
a lender to seek more assurance by carrying carry out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
In coming to a decision  on Mr Hs case, where  Quick Quid  agreed one loan, I have considered  the 
following questions:
did Quick Quid complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing  
Mr Hs loan application to satisfy  itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? (And if not, would those checks have shown that he would have been  able to do so?)
did Quick Quid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Having done so, Ive concluded that Quick Quid was irresponsible to lend to Mr H because  although I 
find that it carried out proportionate checks, the information it gathered should  have led it to decline  
his loan application. So I plan to uphold  Mr Hs complaint  and ask Quick Quid  to refund the interest 
and charges he paid for this loan. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Quick  Quid and Ill 
explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
did Quick  Quid carry out proportionate checks when assessing Mr Hs  loan application to satisfy itself 
that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Ref: DRN93366415Quick Quid  has explained  in some detail  how it carried  out its assessment of Mr Hs loan application. 
It started by saying that the assessment was conducted properly and that by the 1 March  2015 it had 
implemented [an] affordability review that is consistent with the FCA Handbook. 
Quick Quid  says that it began implementing changes  to its affordability and rate cap rules in June 
2014, and as such many loans funded between June 2014 and February 2015  were funded under  the 
new rules  and guidance.  However, in our discussions with the FOS, we have  chosen to use March 1, 
2015 as the date of demarcation for Post-2015 loan, as the FCA-mandated pre-authorisation 
redress period ended  as of February 28, 2015 and all changes were fully implemented by that point. 
And that all loan offers now meet the FCA rate cap and affordability rules.
And it said in response  to our adjudication In response to FOS  assessment which recommends 
Quick Quid  uphold  loans  which were funded after March 2015, we regret to inform  you that we cannot 
agree to FOS recommendations .  
Quick Quid  seems to be saying that because it reviewed its processes and incorporated  regulatory 
changes as it was required  to, all loans for all customers granted from 
1 March 2015  onwards were  granted responsibly.
I dont agree with this argument. It doesnt follow  that a firm cannot have  treated any consumer  
unfairly simply because it has been authorised and is regulated by the FCA. This assumes  that an 
authorised firms regulated activities are always implemented in a way that results in fair outcomes for 
all consumers. This is not the case, as the experience of this Service bears  out.2 
Quick Quid  says that the checks it conducts at the time of lending are proportionate in every 
circumstance. And it considers these checks to have been enhanced through its review. But, as Ive 
explained above, the FCA is not prescriptive about  how the relevant  rules and guidance  set out in 
CONC should  be implemented, specifically CONC does not set out how a lender ought to go about its 
affordability assessments.  The CONC  guidance  does say that the assessment that should  be carried 
out is dependent on what is appropriate for both the consumers circumstances and the particulars  of 
the loan in question.  So it doesnt follow that a standard way of assessing loan applications, whatever  
the extent and scope of it or whatever  the type and source of information it uses  is automatically 
the right thing to do for all consumers  in all circumstances. And so I cannot  pre-judge Mr Hs 
complaint about irresponsible  lending  on the basis that the affordability check Quick  Quid carried  out 
was the right thing to do in his case. And I am not planning to automatically reject his complaint on 
this basis.
Further to this point, as Ive mentioned, there are also other considerations which this Service  is 
required to take into account  when making determinations  on complaints. As the FCA Handbook sets 
out in the rules  and guidance relevant to dispute handing The Ombudsman will determine  
a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. (DISP 3.6.1R)
And DISP 3.6.4R goes on to explain that
In considering what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the Ombudsman will 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice  at the relevant 
time.
2 http://www.ombudsman-complaints-data.org.uk
Ref: DRN93366416So, I am required to consider more  than the rules  and guidance set out by the regulators  in making 
my determination on a complaint. And so I would not be acting in accordance  with my statutory role if 
I only considered  the extent to which Quick  Quid complied with rules and guidance set out by the FCA 
in my determination. 
Moving on to the specifics of this complaint, Quick Quid says that it asked Mr H for his income and 
expenses when he applied for his loan. In addition,  the lender says it used a third-party  credit 
reference agency (CRA) to validate the figures provided by the customer using the customers credit  
report; of note, we examine the customers other credit commitments, and utilise the Income 
Confidence Factor (ICF), which  gauges the accuracy of the customers reported income. 
Quick Quid  explained that Mr H said his monthly income was £1,875 and his total monthly  expenses  
were £1,193.  These were broken down  into the following monthly  expense  categories:
Housing £435
Utility £35
Transport £100
Food £100
Other credit  commitments £398
Other expenses £125 
Total expenses £1,193
Quick Quid  goes on to say that its assessment for affordability  especially  focuses on validating [the] 
Monthly Credit Commitments expense category to ensure  that any short  term credit and payments 
are included  in the category.  To this effect, we validate the reasonableness  of the customers self-
reported expense amount  [against] the CRA data to ensure the customer  is being truthful and 
providing an accurate picture of his or her financial situation,  including any of the customers other 
high cost short term loans.  Given this external validation  process  which has been in place  since 01 
March 2015, we firmly believe our checks went far enough with respect to verify  customer expenses.
Quick Quid  hasnt provided this Service with the results  of the third-party  information  gathered through  
the CRA but it did point out that the figure Mr H gave for his other credit commitments was £398  
whereas the CRA validated figure for this was £775. And that it used the higher  figure in its 
assessment. 
I can see from a recent credit report (April 2018)  that Mr H shared  with this Service that in autumn 
2017 he held several credit  cards  and was repaying  a long-term loan. I can also see that he had a 
history of borrowing  from short-term lenders  and that he had some outstanding  short-term 
commitments around the time Quick Quid agreed to his loan. It doesnt seem from this report  that Mr 
Hs existing credit obligations, as recorded on his file, came to more than the figure  Quick Quid  used. 
Quick Quid  says that it generates a credit score for each loan applicant based on its internal credit 
model, and that Mr Hs credit  score didnt  raise any concerns for it. This credit score in isolation 
doesnt tell me anything  about Mr Hs financial situation. And without seeing the results of any third-
party checks I cant  draw  any more definitive conclusions  about what Quick  Quid may or may not 
have seen of Mr Hs financial situation outside of the information he provided to it. But Mr Hs credit  
report doesnt  show any adverse information such as county court judgements, bankruptcies or recent 
defaults that I think might have prompted the lender to look further into his financial affairs.
Quick Quid  says that it firmly  believes its checks went far enough in verifying customer  expenses. I 
can say that in Mr Hs case, given the amount of credit borrowed and the size of the contractual 
repayments, I think the checks Quick Quid carried out here were  proportionate to the lending  in 
question. It asked Mr H for information  about  his income and expenditure  and incorporated 
information about his expenses  sourced  from a CRA. So I think the checks  were  also proportionate to 
what Quick  Quid knew, and ought to have known, about Mr Hs circumstances.
Ref: DRN93366417However, it doesnt  automatically follow that the information Quick Quid  gathered enabled it to satisfy  
itself that that Mr H would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. Looking at the information 
the assessment  yielded leads me to the conclusion that Quick Quid ought to have realised that its 
loan wouldnt be affordable for Mr H.
Quick Quid  said it uses CRA validated  values for customer expenses  where  these are higher than the 
value the customer stated. It says it always uses the higher value  of the two. Substituting  the higher 
value of £775  for the stated value of £398 for other credit commitments  yields a new total monthly 
expenses figure of £1,570 for Mr H. 
Housing £435
Utility £35
Transport £100
Food £100
Other credit  commitments £775
Other expenses £125 
Total expenses £1,570
Confusingly, Quick Quid  says that it validated [Mr Hs] reported expenses  against credit report data 
and ONS estimates,  which  resulted in an EDI3 of £375.95. With the information  I have available to 
me, I estimate  Mr Hs monthly disposable  income to be £305, based on an income of £1,875 and 
expenses of £1,570.  
As mentioned,  Mr Hs loan was for £400 to be repaid over three months in amounts of £93, £90 and 
£512. Quick Quid says that its affordability rules include that the total repayment  during the loan 
chain cannot exceed  80% of the customers total estimated  disposable income for the duration of the 
loan term. And that the total cost4 of this loan (£294.40) was 25% of the EDI during this period of 92 
days. In other words the total amount of interest 
Mr H had to pay was within  the lenders internal threshold for affordability.  I would expect  Quick  
Quids affordability assessments to be in line with its own internal rules. This of itself doesnt enable  
me to find that Quick Quid lent responsibly as I need  to consider the impact of its credit decision on 
Mr H, bearing in mind  his specific  financial  circumstances  and the particulars of the loan. 
Our adjudicator found  the loan to be unaffordable  because the final repayment amount of £512 
exceeded Mr Hs usual monthly disposable income. Quick Quid says that where the final balloon  
payment of the loan exceeds  the validated estimated disposable  income for that last month,  the 
customer must read and check a box that advises them  of the fact that they may need to save income 
from the previous  months in order to have sufficient funds to pay the final payment. 
The declaration states:
By checking this box you acknowledge  you can afford to make a repayment of [£X] on [date] and [£Y] 
on [date]. You acknowledge that you understand your final repayment is greater than you[r] normal 
disposable income  and you may need to save money over the life of the loan in order to make the 
final repayment  out of disposable income. 
I dont know the context within  which this statement  appeared, or how prominent  it was. But 
irrespective of this, advising  Mr H that he may need to take some action in order to be able to make a 
repayment that is more than the money he would usually  have available to him does  not take away 
Quick Quids  own responsibility to assess whether  or not the loan was going  to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr H. 
CONC 5.2.1(2)(b)R stated  that a creditworthiness  assessment needed  to consider the ability of the 
customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the credit agreement 
3 EDI is estimated disposable income.
4 Contractual interest and charges.
Ref: DRN93366418If Quick Quid  felt that in Mr Hs case hed need to take some action to meet  his loan repayments as 
they fell due, this suggests that it understood that there was a risk that he would not be able repay  his 
loan the way it was structured unless preventative action was taken.  It then left this to Mr H to 
address. It didnt, for example, offer to structure the loan repayments to reflect  its expectations of Mr 
Hs money management.  
As mentioned,  I estimate that Mr H had an amount of £305 normal disposable  income each month. 
He needed to pay almost  a third of this in each of the first two months to meet  his loan repayments (of 
£93 and £90).  And his final repayment of £512 exceeded his estimated disposable income  by almost 
70%. Under Quick Quids  planned  loan structure, meeting  this final repayment would  mean  Mr H 
would spend nearly £1,300 in that final month on debt repayments alone (£775 plus his balloon  
payment of £512).  
I can accept that in some circumstances it might be reasonable  to proceed on the basis that the 
additional cost of the balloon payment could be met without difficulty  by some  level of surplus or 
saving from previous months.  
But in this case, I think  the extent of the shortfall relative to Mr Hs disposable income  meant that 
foreseeably Mr H was not likely to be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way, in other words 
without experiencing financial difficulty. Quick Quid ought to have recognised this and, as a 
responsible lender, shouldnt have agreed to the loan. 
did Quick  Quid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way? 
Mr H says that he has suffered a non-financial loss because Quick Quid  shouldnt have agreed to 
lend to him. He explained that during 2018 he was diagnosed with and treated  for physical  and mental  
health issues by his GP.  He also told this Service that he has been  dealing with what  he understands 
to have been  irresponsible  lending from several short-term lenders and at the same time has had to 
deal with a serious work-related issue. Mr H says that his family situation is such that he doesnt have 
immediate family he can turn to for support.  
Firstly, I am very sorry to hear of Mr Hs situation. It has clearly been a difficult and stressful  time for 
him and continues to be so. I want to reassure  him that I have considered all of the information 
available to me in deciding whether or not Quick Quid got something wrong which  contributed to the 
difficulties he has told us about. 
As Ive concluded above, Quick Quid was irresponsible to lend to Mr H. In order to put this right I am 
directing the lender to refund  him all of the interest and charges that he has paid for his credit and to 
remove any adverse information about this loan from his credit file. (Exactly how it needs  to do this is 
set out in the next section.) This award reflects the fact that Quick Quid  agreed credit  for Mr H when it 
ought to have  known that this wouldnt likely be sustainably affordable for him and puts him back into 
the position he would  have been in financially if this loan hadnt been  agreed for him.
I accept that managing such a financial loss has an impact.  So I am also directing Quick Quid to pay 
Mr H 8% simple interest on his refund  to reflect  the fact that he was without these funds  when  he 
should not have been deprived of them  in the first instance. 
To grant  an award beyond this in Mr Hs case I would  need to be satisfied that Quick  Quid got 
something else wrong over the time of their relationship, which is still ongoing. Or I would  need to see 
that Quick Quid knew about Mr Hs underlying  difficulties  and should have  done something  more to 
respond to this either before  agreeing to lend to him or in the time afterwards.   
Mr H hasnt said that hes unhappy with how Quick Quid has acted  towards  him since agreeing his 
loan. I understand from the lenders customer contact records  that Mr H was unhappy when Quick 
Quid told him that it didnt accept loan payments via credit card and this led to him setting up his first 
repayment plan in December of last year. And I can see from his account history that hes set up a 
Ref: DRN93366419second repayment plan and that there is a balance  still outstanding.  But, Mr H hasnt told us that he 
disclosed his physical and mental health issues to Quick Quid at any point. 
So, I am not planning  to make any further award to Mr H. I appreciate his strength of feeling on this 
point and I want  to reassure him that I am not considering his situation lightly. But, in this instance I 
dont feel a further  award is appropriate.
what Quick Quid  should do to put things  right
As Ive concluded, Quick  Quid was irresponsible to agree Mr Hs loan in October 2017.  In order to put 
Mr H back  in the position he would have been in, had it not agreed to this, Quick  Quid should: 
-refund all interest  and all charges Mr H paid for this loan (including late fees and default  interest 
charges);
-pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the dates of 
settlement;
-remove  any adverse information about the loan from Mr Hs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  must give 
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mr Hs  complaint for the reasons given above and require  
CashEuroNet UK LLC Limited (trading  as Quick Quid) to put things right as Ive set out. 
Ill wait a month to see if either party has anything  further  to add  before considering my decision on 
this complaint once more.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9336641