K821x#15Complaint
Mr C has complained that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as the Post Office, wont 
refund cash withdrawals from his account, which he said he didnt make 
Mrs C, his grandmother, represents him.
Background
Mr C suffers from a serious mental health condition.
Between 13 and 22 September 2017, there  were  four cash  machine withdrawals from his 
account, totalling £708.40.  Mr C was in hospital during this period, having  been detained 
under the Mental Health Act on 13 September 2017.  He remains in hospital.
Before his detention, Mr C was staying with friends in shared accommodation. There  were 
also visitors who came and went. He said he kept his card amongst the rest of his 
belongings. He admitted he kept a written note of his PIN, as there  were  days  when he 
couldnt remember it due to his illness. However,  Mr C says he kept the note apart  from the 
card and hidden  in a crack in the wall. He didnt disclose it to anyone  else.  On 12 September 
2017, he was arrested, following an altercation, and taken to a police  station. He was 
admitted to hospital  the next day.
Mr C didnt have his card and PIN with him when he was arrested.  His belongings were  left 
at the house.
Mrs C took charge of his affairs  when she found  out he was in hospital.  She raised a 
complaint with the Post Office when she saw the unauthorised transactions on his 
statements. She asked  it for a refund.
The Post Office refused to refund Mr C. It said the cash withdrawals were  made  with his card 
and PIN and the PIN was entered  correctly the first time. It said if he didnt make the cash 
withdrawals, then he must have shared his details  with a third party.  Or, he was grossly 
negligent in not keeping  his card and PIN safe. As a result, he had breached the terms and 
conditions of his account and was not entitled  to a refund.
It also said he didnt cancel his card immediately as required  by the terms and conditions  for 
the account.
Mr C wasnt happy with this outcome and so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint  and concluded that he hadnt authorised the 
transactions. She also considered that hed taken sufficient steps  to protect  his card and 
PIN. She recommended that the Post Office refund the disputed transactions. 
The Post Office disagreed with our investigators view. It has asked for an ombudsmans  
final decision.
Ref: DRN94631412My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
the complaint  for broadly the same  reasons as those given by the investigator.
In short,  the Post Office is required to refund an unauthorised transaction. The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2009  (the PSRs 2009).  
Having reviewed the audit trail for the card, Im satisfied Mr Cs genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the cash withdrawals. So, my first task is to come to a view about whether or 
not I think Mr C authorised the cash withdrawals.
Mr C says he didnt make the cash withdrawals because he was detained in hospital  at the 
relevant time. Ive seen a letter from a NHS Trust, which  confirms  that he was detained in 
hospital under the Mental Health Act on 13 September 2017.  I have  seen a second letter 
confirming that he was transferred to a hospital  in another  county on 22 September 2017. 
And Ive seen a letter, which confirms he was sent to a third hospital  in another region in 
2018.
Based on these letters, Im satisfied  that Mr C was detained in hospital when the 
transactions were  made and that, consequently,  he couldnt have made them.  Also, I dont 
think its likely he consented to someone  else using his card and PIN, given his mental 
health at the time and his arrest.
For these reasons, I dont  consider Mr C authorised the disputed transactions.
Even if Mr C didnt  authorise the disputed transactions, the Post office may still hold him 
liable if he failed with intent or gross negligence to comply  with the terms and conditions of 
his account. So my second  task is to consider if he did this.
The PSRs  2009  says that account holders must  use their card,  and other payment 
instruments, in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its issue
and use. And they must take all reasonable steps to keep their personalised security  
credentials, such as their PIN and passwords, safe.  They must also tell their bank without 
undue delay on becoming aware  that their card is lost or stolen,  or that its been  used  
without their consent. 
If an account holder  fails with intent or gross negligence to comply  with the regulations  
theyll become liable for unauthorised payments instead of the bank. 
The Post Office says Mr C failed with gross negligence to comply  with the terms and 
conditions of his account. This is proven by the mere fact that a third party  had his card and 
knew his PIN. So he couldnt have kept them safe.
Mr C said he kept his card with his belongings in the house. Most reasonable people  would 
keep their card with their belongings in the place  they are staying. 
Given his mental state and the circumstances surrounding his arrest, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for him to leave his belongings and card in the house. I think it would  have 
been unusual  if hed been allowed to take them with him.
Ref: DRN94631413But the key issue  here is the safekeeping  of his PIN. I have thought  about the fact that he 
kept a written note of the PIN. I understand he did this because he has problems 
remembering information. And given his mental health condition,  I think  this was a fair and 
reasonable step to take. However, I also consider that he has shown he appreciated the risk 
of keeping a written note and took reasonable steps  to protect this information by:
keeping it apart  from his card, and
concealing it in a crack in a wall.
This might be an unorthodox way of hiding  a PIN, but its no different to a person keeping a 
note of the PIN in a drawer at home and separate from the card.  As I said,  I think  Mr C has 
shown an appreciation of the risk and I consider  that he took steps, which a reasonable 
person would take, to protect the PIN. He might have been  careless  but I dont think  he was 
grossly negligent.
Based on this evidence,  I dont consider  he failed  with intent or gross  negligence to comply 
with the terms and conditions of his account  to keep  his details safe.
The Post Office also said he didnt cancel his card without undue  delay, as required by the 
terms and conditions for the account.  
Mr C was arrested and detained under the Mental Health Act. He didnt  have the opportunity 
to contact the Post Office  and cancel  his card immediately. And this probably  wasnt at the 
forefront of his mind at the time. When Mrs C found  out where he was, she spoke to him, 
asked about his belongings and subsequently  cancelled his card on 27 September. Given  
these facts, I dont consider there  was any undue  delay in cancelling the card.
In these circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable to ask the Post Office to refund the 
disputed transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding  this complaint and I am asking J.P. Morgan Europe 
Limited to
refund  the disputed  transactions  totalling £708.40
pay 8% simple interest on the above  from the date of payment to the date of
settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9463141