K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IIS) delayed the transfer of an 
international stock  to his new UK account, leaving him unable  to sell the stock when he 
wanted to and incurring unnecessary fees for continuing to hold it.
background
Ive issued two provisional decisions on Mr Cs complaint. Excerpts from both are attached 
for reference and form part of this final decision.  
My view of the complaint,  at the point of issuing the second provisional  decision, was that it 
should be upheld,  and compensation paid to Mr C. In brief, I concluded that thered been  a 
clear failing on the part of IIS  not following up the transfer request despite having 
committed to doing  so  and it could  be reasonably  demonstrated that, but for that failing, 
the transfer would more  likely than not have taken place on or around 7 March  2018 and 
Mr C wouldve sold the stock at that time. 
My view on compensation had been  set out in my first provisional decision. Id said;  
In this type of situation, I would generally direct IIS to pay the difference  between the 
amount Mr C wouldve  received if hed sold the stock on 7 March  2018 and the amount  he 
received when he was actually  able to sell it. But in this caseMr  C didnt sell the stock. And 
its my understanding that it is now no longer trading. As such  IIS will have to pay the full 
amount Mr C wouldve  received for a sale on 7 March 2018
Id explained earlier in the decision that Mr C hadnt  sold the stock as soon as the transfer 
had eventually completed in August 2018 because his desire to sell the holding in the 
2017/18 tax year, so pre-April 2018, had been driven by a wish to crystallise a loss for tax 
purposes, not price driven. So, once  he was into the new 2018/19 tax year his financial 
circumstances had been different and he wouldve needed to reassess  his position.
IIS response to my second provisional decision broadly accepted that it had delayed  the 
transfer. So, it in turn accepted that the complaint should be upheld.  But it didnt accept my 
view on compensation.  It felt that, in brief:
Any liability for losses relating to the delay should be limited to August 2018,  the point 
at which  Mr C could have  sold the stock.
Any subsequent  losses bore no relevance  to the transfer delay.
Over  the period in question, seeing  the price of the stock  fall, Mr C shouldve sold it 
to mitigate his position.
Expecting IIS to cover the post-transfer losses offered protection  to Mr C for poor 
management of the investment.
The post-transfer  losses were excluded under its terms, along with the common law 
principles of remoteness of loss and the duty on a claimant  to mitigate  its loss.
I responded to ISS saying that I remained of the view that in the very specific circumstances 
of this complaint,  it was reasonable for Mr C to have  continued holding the stock  after 24 
August 2018,  while he reassessed his personal and financial circumstances in light of the 
transfer delay  moving  things into the new financial year 2018/19, when it had been his 
intention to sell in the 2017/18 tax year. 
Ref: DRN98006852I felt the loss was neither too remote (noting that it was quite common  for stock to be traded 
for reasons other than straightforward price-related  reasons) and I didnt think Mr C 
unreasonably failed in his duty to mitigate,  not given  the circumstances of the sale. 
I didnt feel that Mr Cs actions after 24 August  2018 constituted poor management of his 
investment. Rather,  I thought they reflected the need for him to completely reassess his 
position as a result of the delay caused  by IIS failure to manage the transfer effectively, over 
a period which had already seen a very significant  fall in the stocks  value.  
I added that I didnt think my view in any way set a precedent as I had considered the matter 
entirely of the basis of the specific circumstances of the complaint  which, I thought it was 
fair to say, were quite  unusual, with very different characteristics to the more  frequently 
encountered transfer delay  type complaint . As such, I remained  of the view that the 
compensation should be as had been  set out in my second provisional decision.
ISS provided its closing comments, saying, in brief:
It strongly disagreed  with my view regarding compensation.
Although it recognised  that there were tax considerations for Mr C, the decrease in 
value after August 2018 should nevertheless have  triggered  a reassessment of 
whether a sale should be made. 
Mr C had around eight  months  in which to reflect on his position. How much  longer 
would be deemed sufficient time to do so?
While  IIS urged  me to reconsider my decision, in order to bring the matter to a close 
it confirmed it would  accept the proposed resolution. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
I remain of the view that the complaint  should  be upheld,  for the reasons  given previously. 
I acknowledge ISS continued disagreement with my views on compensation. I do appreciate 
the points it has made  and would stress  that Ive considered them  very carefully. But, as I 
noted before,  in the specific circumstances of Mr Cs complaint, Im satisfied that what  Ive 
proposed is fair and reasonable.  
In respect of IIS comment regarding how much longer  would have been  reasonable for 
Mr C to have continued  holding the stock,  I understand IIS point. But Mr C did refer his 
complaint to this service  within  six months  of the eventual transfer date and still within the 
same tax year, by which  point the stocks  price had already  significantly fallen. And fairly 
soon after the stock was suspended from trading. So, I dont think Mr C acted unreasonably 
in this respect. Had the referral been  made much later  for example, into a new tax year  
my view may have been different.
I should also note also Mr Cs recent comments. He was concerned about the time taken for 
the matter to progress  and questioned  whether the 8% simple interest to be added  to any 
loss was sufficient  to act as a deterrent  to IIS for what  he saw as it delaying matters.  I should 
clarify that awards  of compensation made by this service are not in any way punitive. The 
8% interest is our standard approach, to represent the cost of being  deprived of the money 
calculated as having been lost. 
Ref: DRN98006853Further, Mr C suggested that he would like recordings of calls made between him and ISS to 
be obtained. While I understand his concerns, I dont feel that obtaining the calls or any data 
relating to them is necessary in reaching  a fair resolution to the matter. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
I direct  Interactive Investor Services Limited  to pay compensation to Mr C equivalent to the 
value of his holding had it been sold on 7 March 2018, minus  its current value. As I 
understand the stock cannot  currently be traded, for the purpose  of the calculation it should 
be assumed to have  a nil-value. IIS should  add interest at 8% simple to any loss determined  
by the calculation, from 7 March 2018  to date of settlement.
If IIS wishes Mr C must provide an undertaking that any future value recouped  from the 
stock be repaid to IIS, up to the value of the compensation paid. 
IIS should also refund the account charges Mr C has incurred since March 2018 and pay 
£200 for the inconvenience caused, if this has not already  been  done.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2021.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98006854EXCERPT FROM FIRST PROVISIONAL  DECISION
background
In January 2018 Mr C opened an account with IIS and instigated the transfer of the stock  in question. 
He received initial confirmation that the transfer had started on 31 January 2018, but it then became 
apparent that a particular asset transfer  form was needed, specific to the US and Canada. 
This was provided and the transfer  recommenced on 8 February 2018.  IIS indicated  at this point that 
the transfer could take up to six weeks for UK stocks, longer for international stocks like Mr Cs. (The 
initial transfer  confirmation had indicated a potential eight-week transfer period.  I note later 
information sent to Mr C towards the end of the transfer process  said,  Funds  and International stocks 
can take up to 8 weeks .)
There was then a lack of progress  and Mr C continued  to contact  IIS through  its secure messaging 
system. There were many  delays and as time passed Mr C made it clear that he needed  the transfer 
to completed by the end of the tax year, in April 2018. 
This deadline  came and went, and the transfer still hadnt completed. There was then further delay 
because the required  Direct Registration System  (DRS) statement of holding completed at the outset 
in January was only valid for 90 days,  so a new updated version had to be provided. The transfer was 
eventually completed on 29 August 2018.
On the same date IIS issued a final response letter  to Mr C. The letter  didnt deal with the general 
issue of the delayed transfer. Rather, it responded very specifically to concerns Mr C had raised  about  
the DRS statement issue  on 17 August 2018, as part of his ongoing attempts to get the transfer 
completed. IIS offered to refund one quarterly account fee of £22.50 to Mr C.
Mr C referred the matter of the delayed transfer to this service in February  2019.  Our investigator 
considered it and concluded  that although IIS had provided him with poor service, it was unlikely  the 
transfer wouldve completed in time, before the end of the tax year.  
By this point IIS had looked  further into what had happened and offered to pay Mr C £200 
compensation, which the investigator felt was fair in the circumstances. Mr C didnt accept this. He felt 
the transfer couldve been completed in time if IIS had dealt with the matter straightaway, in which 
case the additional DRS statement issue would never have  arisen. He maintained that hed incurred a 
significant loss through not being able to sell when he wanted  to, along  with having to continue to pay 
fees to IIS to hold the stock. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matters  been referred to me to 
review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently of the view that it should be upheld,  
and Ill explain why.
Although there  was the initial issue with the asset transfer form,  IIS confirmed to Mr C on 8 February 
2018 that the transfer was in progress. In doing so it said Transferring UK stocks can take up to 6 
weeks. International stocks can take longer. Well do everything we can to speed up the transfer but 
you may be able to help move things along by contacting your current provider directly.
So, at this point it seems there was a reasonable amount of time for the transfer to complete  eight 
weeks until 5 April 2018.  While there was no guarantee offered by IIS as to how long it would take, 
the guidance offered indicated that Mr C could  expect  the transfer to be completed before the end of 
the tax year. 
Ref: DRN98006855The next contact Mr C received from IIS was on 17 February  2018 and somewhat confusingly 
appeared to relate to the issue with the asset transfer forms, which by that point  was resolved. 
Mr C responded  on 19 February 2018  saying,  in part, I need to sell my shares  fast and dont want  to 
learn too late that you cant  access  my shares held in Canada. IIS responded with a fairly generic  
response saying that it probably could  trade a Canadian  stock, but it would  depend  on what  stock it 
was. It didnt acknowledge in any way that the transfer had already been in progress for nearly  two 
weeks. 
Mr C responded  to this  albeit almost a month later on 19 March 2018  confirming  the name of the 
stock and asking when IIS thought the transfer would be completed because we are running  out of 
time. 
IIS replied on 28 March 2018. It apologised for the delay in responding to Mr C and said simply that 
this will be processed.  Mr C replied on 1 April 2018 to say You have me really worried now as my 
deadline is approaching in 3 days. Could  you please elaborate on your answer?
The next response  from IIS was on 19 April 2018. By this time, it was well beyond  the point by which 
Mr C had wanted to sell the stock. As noted, the transfer did eventually complete  after a new DRS 
statement had been provided by Mr C. 
Much of IIS response to the complaint about the delays (made after the complaint was referred to this 
service in February 2019 rather than in its final response letter of August 2018) has dealt with matters 
after 5 April 2018 and the fact that the delays related  to Mr C having to provide a new DRS statement.  
But I think that is all irrelevant. Mr C was only required to provide a new DRS statement  because  the 
original expired after 90 days. And looking  at what happened I think its clear the transfer shouldve  
completed well within 90 days (nearly 13 weeks) of 8 February 2018 and, more likely than not, within 
eight weeks of that date.
Going back to the confirmation of the transfer starting of 8 February 2018,  IIS said Well do 
everything we can to speed  up the transfer. In fact, as far as I can see IIS didnt  contact the Canadian 
transfer agent  until 19 April 2018, 10 weeks after it had confirmed the transfer had started.  It received 
no response from the transfer agent but didnt  chase again  until more than two months later on 29 
June 2018. 
This time a prompt response was forthcoming from the transfer agent. But because  of what  by that 
point was a significant delay, the DRS statement had become an issue.  A new one was sought  from 
Mr C, which  did take some time, but by this point  Mr C had missed his required deadline and there 
was less urgency. 
(Its worth  noting here that Mr Cs desire  to sell the holding in the 2017/18 tax year was driven by a 
wish to crystallise a loss for tax purposes,  not price driven. Once into the new 2018/19 tax year his 
financial circumstances were  different, hence why he didnt sell the stock  as soon as the transfer was 
completed in August 2018.)
 
As noted, for whatever reason, IIS didnt  chase  the transfer agent  until 19 April 2018. But I think  its 
reasonable to expect  it to have started to chase a week after the transfer began, given  its initial  
commitment to do everything it could to speed up the transfer. (I note that IIS has since said that, 
following an update to its transfer process, a case handler  will now check  a case  every three working 
days, but Ill nevertheless use a week for the purposes of determining the hypothetical position).
If we assume in fairness that the transfer agent might well have failed to respond to this hypothetical 
first contact as it did to the actual first contact,  a second chase should  reasonably  have then been 
made a week  later, on 22 February 2018. If the transfer agent had then responded in four days as it 
did after the actual second  contact, it wouldve then been 26 February 2018.  (Im aware  that there 
Ref: DRN98006856was some later delay caused by a change in transfer agent but again  this wouldnt  have been an 
issue had the transfer proceeded at a reasonable  pace.)
At this point in the actual  process  there was a significant delay because, as noted,  a new DRS 
statement had to be obtained from Mr C. But this wouldnt have happened if IIS had started  chasing  
sooner, as it wouldve  still been well within  the 90-day  validity of the original DRS  statement. 
Once the new statement was received the transfer took just over another week, which  suggests that 
with a reasonable  process in place and even allowing for some  general delays the transfer could  have 
been completed by 7 March 2018  and certainly  well before  the deadline  of 5 April 2018.
And I think that if this had happened theres little doubt Mr C wouldve sold the stock. All the evidence 
points to him wanting to do so within  the 2017/18  tax year. So, I think IIS should put him in the 
position hed be in if hed sold the stock on 7 March 2018. 
In this type of situation, I would generally direct  IIS to pay the difference  between  the amount Mr C 
wouldve received if hed sold the stock on 7 March 2018 and the amount he received when he was 
actually able to sell it. But in this case,  for the reasons  mentioned above, which I accept, Mr C didnt 
sell the stock. And its my understanding that it is now no longer trading. As such  IIS will have to pay 
the full amount Mr C wouldve received for a sale on 7 March 2018 and, if it wishes  to and its 
possible, take an assignment  of the stock so it retains rights to any future  value.  
There is also the matter of Mr Cs tax position and how this may have been adversely  affected by not 
being able to sell in the 2017/18 tax year. As Im not currently party  to that sort of information, if Mr C 
wishes comment about  this in response to this provisional decision, I can consider the issue and will 
confirm any thoughts  prior to making a final decision. 
I also think  IIS should refund the account charges Mr C has incurred  since March  2018 as it seems 
most likely he opened the IIS account solely as a vehicle for transferring  and selling the stock,  so he 
wouldnt have continued  with the account once the sale was complete.
Finally, in respect of the trouble  and upset caused I think the £200 already offered is fair, given the 
failings by IIS to respond promptly to Mr C and move the process along. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further comments I receive, Im currently of the view that the 
complaint should be upheld and Interactive  Investor Services  Limited should pay Mr C compensation  
as set out above.
Ref: DRN98006857EXCERPT FROM SECOND  PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
The background  to the complaint and my provisional  findings were set out in my initial provisional 
decision, a copy of which  is attached  for reference. 
In short, I felt that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. It was my view that IIS had failed to follow up 
on the stock transfer request despite having given  Mr C the expectation that it would do so. I 
explained why I thought that if it had chased the transfer  in reasonable time following  it being  initiated  
on 8 February  2018 then,  given how the matter subsequently progressed once IIS did make contact 
with the transfer  agent, it was more  likely than not that Mr C wouldve  been able to sell his stock  in 
March 2018, before  the end of the tax year, as was his aim. 
I said that, this being so, IIS should compensate  Mr C by comparing  the value he wouldve  received if 
hed sold the stock  in March 2018 with its current value  and paying  him the difference. I also 
suggested that, as Mr C had indicated that his desire  to sell the stock prior to the end of the 2017/18 
tax year was related to crystallising  a loss for tax purposes,  then upon provision  of information from 
Mr C relating to this I would consider whether additional compensation should be paid. 
I also suggested  that IIS should refund fees incurred  relating to it continuing  to hold the stock after it 
wouldve been  sold March 2018, plus £200  already offered by for what it had acknowledged were  
customer service  failings  associated with the matter. 
Mr C responded  to my provisional  decision  with a clarification of what  he estimated as his loss, which  
was limited to the value  of the stock as of 7 March 2018, plus the subsequent  fees paid to continue to 
hold the stock.
IIS responded  in disagreement with my provisional  decision. It said,  in brief: 
It didnt  agree that Mr C made it clear that he needed the transfer to be completed by the end 
of the 2017/18 tax year. Based on a transcript of a call Mr C made  to IIS on 13 February  
2018, shortly after the transfer was initiated,  it was clear  that he had indicated  a desire to sell 
the shares quickly, but no deadline was given. He had further opportunities to stress the 
deadline but didnt  do so until much later in the process. And no mention was made of the tax 
loss issue until the complaint was referred to this service, by which  point the value of the 
stock had fallen significantly.   
It didnt  agree that it had indicated  to Mr C that he could expect the transfer to be completed 
before the end of the tax year. He was informed  that an international transfer could take 
longer than the usual six to eight weeks. And no guarantee of when the transfer would  be 
completed was ever offered. 
Due regard must be given to IIS terms and conditions of business when considering the 
complaint. These made clear that share dealing carried a high degree of risk and, further, that 
IIS liability was limited, and it would not be liable  to you for any indirect losses which you 
suffer, except in the case of our wilful default or fault." "Indirect loss"  includes "for example, 
loss of profit,  loss of opportunity,  loss of business and any other indirect losses"
IIS also commented  specifically in respect of the potential quantum of loss. It distinguished between 
the pre-transfer loss (that made between the hypothetical date of sale,  7 March 2018,  and the date in 
August when the transfer actually  completed) and the post-transfer loss (that made  after the transfer, 
when the stock value fell significantly). 
IIS felt that it could not be held responsible  for the former loss, primarily as Mr C had not indicated a 
deadline or been offered  any guarantee. Nor could it be held responsible for the latter, as Mr C 
couldve mitigated the loss by selling the stock  once the transfer  was complete. It said these  post-
transfer losses were  too remote  to be attributed to any customer  service failings (if there were  any) 
and, in any event, were also excluded under its terms, as quoted above. 
Ref: DRN98006858I followed up on IIS response to my provisional decision by requesting a copy of the recording of the 
call between Mr C and IIS of 13 February 2018.  
Having listened  to this, I put it to IIS that Mr C had made it abundantly clear  that he wanted the 
transfer to complete very fast, noting that he had in fact gone as far to give a specific target date - 20 
March 2018. He had also indicated that if the transfer was to go beyond the end of March,  he would 
incur a loss (although I acknowledged that this part of the call was not very clear). 
In short, I felt Mr C really couldnt have made it any clearer that the transfer was something he wanted 
to happen as quickly as possible, albeit  he understood the nature of the potential  time limits involved.
I also noted  that the person Mr C spoke to did explain the likely time limits and that she didnt  want to 
confirm anything definite  in respect of a timescale. But I highlighted to IIS that shed  also gone on to 
say, in respect of the other provider involved in the transfer, that we chase them on a weekly  basis".
As such, I felt that while  it was explained to Mr C that there was no guarantee about the time the 
transfer might take, it appeared  that he was clearly  led to believe that IIS would actively progress and 
monitor the transfer  therefore giving him confidence that the transfer might complete within his ideal  
timeframe. But the evidence showed  that IIS did nothing to chase the transfer until 19 April 2018.
IIS responded  to my comments about the call. It said, in brief, that there was no evidence that Mr C 
had specified 20 March  2018  as a hard deadline. Nor that he had explained that losses would  be 
incurred if it wasnt met. IIS said that it accepted that thered been  some limited  customer service  
failings (for which it had offered the £200 compensation) but that these failings  didnt cause any loss 
to Mr C because it had been  his decision to hold the stock on a platform that didnt allow sales (hence  
the need  to transfer to IIS to sell) and also because market movements were outside its control.
IIS stressed again that no guarantee of how long the transfer would take had been given to Mr C and, 
although it accepted that following the initial sending  of the transfer request on 8 February 2018 it 
hadnt followed the matter  up until 19 April 2018, it wasnt necessarily the case  that chasing up the 
transfer would have speeded  the process  up. It also noted that Mr C didnt  chase the transfer from his 
end as much as he couldve  done,  which it felt didnt suggest there had been any particular urgency 
on his part. Finally, IIS drew  attention again to its terms in respect of how its liability was limited.
my further  provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments,  including the further submissions, to 
decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.  
Im conscious  that consideration  of Mr Cs complaint had been lengthy,  both in terms of related  
correspondence and the time involved. As such, I will endeavour to be as brief as possible in 
explaining my further findings, focusing on what I see as the primary  issues.  
Much has been said about the potential length of time this type of transfer might take,  what  was said 
to Mr C in this respect, and the fact that no guarantee was ever given  to him that any particular 
deadline would, or could, be met. 
But I dont think theres any dispute about this. Its clear from the phone  call of 13 February  2018 that 
Mr C was aware that there was no guarantee as to when  the transfer would be completed. He just 
wanted it done as quickly as possible because he ideally wanted to sell before the end of the 2017/18 
tax year.
I think  the key point  is that although no guarantee  or commitment was given about  how long the 
transfer would take or when it would be completed, IIS did however give a commitment to Mr C that it 
would follow up the matter. It said this to him in writing  on 8 February 2018 when it confirmed the 
Ref: DRN98006859transfer had started  Well  do everything we can to speed up the transfer  and also in the call of 13 
February 2018 We chase them on a weekly basis. 
IIS has accepted that it in fact didnt do anything to speed up the transfer or to chase the other 
provider. At least not until 10 weeks  later, on 19 April 2018. While it has acknowledged this significant 
delay as demonstrating limited customer service failings , I dont think this goes far enough. 
As noted, Mr C made it abundantly clear at the outset  that he wanted things  progressed as quickly as 
possible. He even went as far as to offer to pay for an expedited service if one had been  available. I 
think its reasonable  to conclude that if hed been aware  that, contrary to the commitments made by 
IIS, it was actually not going to make any efforts to chase  up or manage the transfer  at least not for 
10 weeks or so  then Mr C wouldve looked at alternatives  to try and achieve his objective. 
IIS has said that chasing up the transfer sooner  wouldnt  necessarily have led to a quicker transfer. 
But Ive shown in my provisional decision  that when the transfer was eventually chased up by IIS the 
process completed in around  a month (an estimate that takes account of some additional  time 
actually being needed   relating to the DRS statement, etc  that wouldnt have been the case  had 
the chasing up of the transfer begun in a reasonable time). 
So, as there  is evidence of how long the transfer did actually take, I think  it can reasonably be 
concluded that the transfer, more likely than not, could  have been completed before the end of the 
financial year if IIS had taken action promptly and started to chase up the matter  after a week,  as it 
told Mr C it would.
I note IIS reference to its terms and the limitation  of its liability. I accept  that in respect of the potential  
tax loss this might fall under  the definition  of an indirect  loss, as set out at 13.3 in IIS terms of 
service. However,  I note Mr C has made no further submissions in respect of details about  the tax 
loss, so as it stands, I dont intend to consider it further in any event. 
But I think more relevant to Mr Cs complaint is term 13.1 where it says that IIS will not be liable  for 
any losses except where caused directly by the negligence, wilful default,  fraud or breach of the 
terms by us or our employees,  agents, sub-contractors or any Group company.  I think  its arguable  
that there was wilful  default shown  by IIS in its failure to follow up the transfer, as it clearly did not do 
what it was reasonable for Mr C to expect it to do, given  both his clear wishes and IIS clear  
commitments to follow up the transfer. And that this led directly to a loss for Mr C, as he would clearly 
have sold the stock  if it had been transferred in time. 
But in any event, I think this is ultimately simply  a matter of there being  a clear  failing on the part of IIS 
 not following up the transfer having committed to doing so  and it can be reasonably  demonstrated 
that, but for that failing, the transfer  would  more likely than not have taken place  on or around 7 
March 2018 and Mr C wouldve sold the stock at that time. 
I note IIS comments  about  the lack of follow up from Mr C himself and how it demonstrates a lack of 
urgency on his part. But it isnt the case that he simply left the matter  to run after the call of 8 February  
2018. As noted in my first provisional decision, he followed  up by secure  message  the method  
suggested in IIS message  confirming the transfer had started  on three occasions, each stressing 
the importance of completing  the transfer as quickly as possible. At no point during this period was he 
told that no further  action had been  taken by IIS.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  I remain of the view that the 
complaint should be upheld and that Interactive Investor Services Limited should  compensate Mr C 
as set out in my first provisional decision, except there should  be no provision made  in respect of any 
tax issues.  
Ref: DRN980068510Also, for clarity, interest at 8% simple should be added to any loss determined by the calculation,  from 
7 March 2018  to date of settlement. In respect of the issue of assignment of the stock,  I note IIS 
comments. If it is unable to take an assignment, then I would consider it acceptable that Mr C be 
required to provide  an undertaking to IIS that any value recouped from the stock in future be repaid to 
IIS up to the value of the compensation paid. 
Ref: DRN9800685