K821x#15complaint
Mrs S took out a Total Mortgage Protection  plan with a mortgage  in 2004. The plan included 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover (PPI), as well as life and critical illness  cover. 
Mrs S says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. As Mrs S has only 
complained about the sale of the PPI, thats  all I have looked  into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think its likely Halifax made  it clear  that Mrs S didnt  have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. Halifax  
hasnt been able to give us a copy of the paperwork from the time, although this isnt 
surprising since the mortgage and PPI were taken out such a long time ago. But Ive 
seen the type of paperwork Mrs S is likely to have completed at the time and think this 
would have made it clear the PPI was optional.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs S back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs S now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN92511812my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9251181