K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Ms M bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a loan. The loan included  an 
amount to pay for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint because:
I think Nationwide made Ms M aware the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take it 
out. I say this because  the loan application  form Ms M completed included  a section 
about PPI, which  had options  for her to select or decline the cover.  Ms M ticked  the box 
to say that she wanted the PPI. The box to decline it was immediately underneath the 
box she ticked.
The loan agreement  that Nationwide sent Ms M also described the PPI as Optional 
Credit Insurance.
So from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that the optional nature of the policy was made 
clear to Ms M by Nationwide, and that she chose to take it. 
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. Ms M had to decide for herself whether  or not the policy was suitable  for her 
needs.
But Nationwide had to give Ms M clear  enough  information about the policy  so she could 
decide if she wanted to buy it. Its possible the information Nationwide  gave Ms M about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  would  have 
stopped Ms M from buying the policy.  I explain why I say that below: 
Ms M was eligible for the policy.
Its unlikely Ms M would have been  affected by any of the main things that the policy 
didnt cover.
The policy appears to have been flexible  in that Ms M may have got back  a pro rata 
refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled it early. So I dont think  this meant the policy  
wasnt right for her. 
Ref: DRN92485552The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement  including  the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Ms M would 
have understood  how much  the PPI would  cost if she kept the policy for its full term. And 
given how long the policy could have paid out for if Ms M made  a successful claim, she 
could have got back quite a bit more than she paid for it.  
When I take all of these  points into account,  Im not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9248555