K821x#15complaint
Mr L says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about 4 loans MYJAR provided to Mr L between January 2015 and May 
2015. Mr Ls loans  were for between £100  and £500. From what I can see, Mr L has repaid 
all his loans.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ls complaint  in part and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been  
given. MYJAR disagreed  and said it wasnt clear that the adjudicator had reviewed all of the 
information it had sent and there was a lack of reasoning in the view. So the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN90253862Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.  
MYJAR asked Mr L for information about his income and expenditure and it carried  out credit 
checks. Mr L said he earned between £2700 and £3000 a month and his outgoings were  
£1100. 
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. From what  I can see, there wasnt anything in the information Mr L provided 
or the information MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant  it wouldve been  
proportionate to start verifying what Mr L was saying. So I cant say MYJAR was wrong to 
have provided  loans one to three.
At the point of loan 4 I think the business should have looked more  closely  at Mr Ls finances 
given his borrowing  pattern. By loan 4, Mr L had been borrowing consistently and this was 
his fourth  loan in just over 5 months. Mr L asked for loan 4 a few days after loan 3 was 
repaid for the same amount. So MYJAR ought  to have  realised it was more likely than not Mr 
L was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in 
his finances and that Mr Ls indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably. Mr Ls borrowing 
pattern was at odds  with the amount of disposable income he had declared. If MYJAR  had 
carried out further checks at the point of loan 4 it would have seen that this loan was 
unsustainable for Mr L.
So I think that MYJAR shouldnt have given  Mr L loan 4.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  about loan 4 from Mr Ls credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ls complaint.  MYJAR Limited  
should pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN90253863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9025386