K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him Gold Service and 
Platinum fee-paying packaged  bank  accounts.
background
Mr H opened a fee-free  account with Lloyds  in 1986. Some time prior to September 2001  his 
account was changed to a fee-paying  Gold  Service packaged bank  account.   His account 
was then changed to a fee-paying Platinum account  in February 2003. His account remained 
as such until it was closed  in May 2006.
In its response to Mr Hs complaint, Lloyds agreed to refund Mr Hs Gold Service account 
fees, and paid simple  interest on those fees at 8%. Lloyds calculated  the refund back  to 
1992 because  that is when Mr H believes the Gold Service account was sold to him. 
However, Lloyds did not think  that the Platinum  account had been mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint. They thought  that the redress  paid by 
Lloyds was fair in the circumstances but they didnt think that the Platinum account had been 
mis-sold. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for the complaint to be considered  
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Hs complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told. And having done  so, I dont think that the Platinum  account  was 
mis-sold or that Lloyds needs to do anything further  regarding  the sale of the Gold  Service 
account. I will explain why.
Gold Service refund
I think that Lloydss  offer is reasonable and in line with what  our service wouldve asked 
Lloyds to do, had we concluded that it had been mis-sold. 
Mr H says that the amount should be a lot higher. But Mr H has given no reason why he 
thinks this. And based on the breakdown of the redress  calculation  Lloyds has provided, I 
think the amount  that has been refunded is correct. So I dont think  Lloyds needs to do 
anything further,  or pay Mr H anything more,  in relation to the sale of the Gold  Service 
account.
Ref: DRN93580562Platinum account
Mr H says that the upgrade to Platinum happened  without  his consent. He says he received 
a letter  saying his account was changing,  but says the letter didnt explain what the monthly 
fee for the Platinum account was or what the benefits were.
Lloyds has limited information about  Mr Hs account being upgraded to a Platinum account. 
However, this is neither  surprising nor unreasonable given that it took place over 16 years 
ago and the account was closed in 2006.  However  Lloyds has been able to provide 
evidence that indicates that the account was upgraded online.
Mr H disputes that it was upgraded online and says that online banking wasnt available on 
the Gold Service account, so says it cant  have  been  him who upgraded it. But Lloyds says 
that online banking  was available and I have seen  evidence (historic screenshots  of Lloydss 
website from 2002) to support this. Lloyds  has also provided evidence to show that the sort 
code for Mr Hs Platinum account was a sort code  allocated to online sales. So Im satisfied 
that internet  banking  was available around  the time that Mr Hs account was changed to a 
Platinum account.  
So while Mr H recalls receiving a letter saying  that his account was changing, this doesnt 
reflect the sort code  that was applied to the account at the time.  And having weighed  
everything up, I think its more likely that Mr H changed his account to a Platinum account  
through the online banking service, rather than it being changed  by Lloyds without his 
consent. I therefore think that Mr H, in all likelihood, agreed to the Platinum account knowing 
it was optional and that he didnt have  to agree to it if he didnt want  to.
As I think  the account was most likely  upgraded online, this means it was upgraded on a 
non-advised basis. This means Lloyds didnt  have to check  if it was right for him, but it did 
still have to give him the important information about the account so he could decide for 
himself if it was right for him.
Unfortunately, I dont know what information Mr H was given during the upgrade. But I think  
its likely  that he was given at least some information about the account, such as that it came 
with benefits and that there was a monthly  account  fee. I say this as I think its likely that 
Lloyds wouldve made the account  seem attractive  to encourage account holders and 
potential account  holders  to agree to it. And I think its likely that Mr H was aware  that it 
incurred a monthly fee as he was already paying  for the Gold Service  and think its unlikely 
that he wouldve  thought hed get the extra benefits for free.
In February 2003,  Mr Hs account had an agreed overdraft facility of £5,000 on it and it was 
overdrawn up to this limit when his account  was upgraded to the Platinum account. And as 
the Platinum account included a £250 interest  free overdraft benefit and provided a reduced 
interest rate on balances  overdrawn by more than that amount, I think its possible that this 
benefit may have  been something that Mr H couldve found useful.
I accept that Lloyds might not have given Mr H all of the information it shouldve  about the 
Platinum account.  But Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve been put off from agreeing to it 
had he been given more information about  it, as ultimately I think he agreed to it knowing 
roughly what it cost and what  benefits  it came with. So, on balance,  I dont think  that the 
Platinum account  was mis-sold to Mr H.
Ref: DRN93580563Finally, Mr H has questioned why his account  was closed. I understand that it was closed 
because it was transferred to Lloydss collections department because it had an outstanding 
balance that hadnt been repaid by Mr H. Again  theres limited information about this. But its 
likely that his account was closed to avoid further debt or charges building up on his account. 
So I cant say that Lloyds acted unfairly  because it closed his account.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint  so Lloyds Bank  PLC 
doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9358056