K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Vanquis Bank Limited have  caused him distress  and inconvenience  by 
not providing him with all the information  he requested as part of a subject access  request.
background
Mr O has a credit card account with Vanquis that he took out in June 2017. In January 2018 
the account was passed  to external debt collectors  as the limit had been  exceeded and a 
number of monthly payments had been missed. 
In mid-2018 Mr O contacted Vanquis to say that he didnt recognise the account that he was 
being chased by the debt collectors about.  Due to this, Vanquis raised a fraud investigation 
to make sure the account hadnt  been  taken out fraudulently in Mr Os name.  Mr O also 
made a Subject Access request at this time. Vanquis explained that they were  unable  to 
send Mr O any information  about  the account  while the investigation was taking place.
The investigation concluded in October 2018.  Vanquis then processed Mr Os Subject 
Access Request (SAR). Mr O received the SAR in December however was unhappy as he 
wanted copies  of the recordings  of all the calls he had made to Vanquis which they hadnt 
provided as part of the SAR. He complained to Vanquis. 
Vanquis didnt  uphold his complaint. They said they dont have an obligation to provide call 
recordings and they had provided notes  from all of Mr Os calls instead. However they 
offered to provide any calls Mr O would  like to listen to specifically. 
Vanquis provided some calls to Mr O in January 2019. They  then provided all calls in March 
2019, after Mr O complained that the ones they sent were not enough. They  also gave Mr O 
£100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for the distress caused by having  to call them 
so many times. 
Mr O was unhappy with the amount of time it had taken for Vanquis  to provide all the 
information he had requested, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  recommend upholding Mr Os 
complaint. He found that although Vanquis  could have provided better service, their offer of 
£100 was fair.
Mr O disagreed with our investigator and asked for the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O currently  has other  complaints against  Vanquis that either  have been  or are being 
considered by this service. The complaint  I am deciding on here, is just about  how Vanquis 
handled Mr Os requests for information after their final response  letter  issued in July 2018.
Ref: DRN90938542As part of this complaint, Im unable to consider whether Vanquis  met their requirements 
under law, when  processing the SAR.  This doesnt fall into the remit of this service  as these 
requests are governed by the Information  Commissioners Office. I will therefore only look at 
the service Vanquis  provided when dealing with Mr Os requests for information and whether 
they treated  him fairly. 
Mr O made  a SAR in July 2018. Around  this time he also raised concerns that the account 
which had been  passed to the external debt collection agency wasnt his. Due to this, 
Vanquis opened an investigation  into the account to make  sure it hadnt been set up 
fraudulently in his name. While this investigation  was taking place, Vanquis were unable to 
provide Mr O with information  about  this account. This is because  there was a concern 
raised about whether the account was Mr Os. Im satisfied it was fair for Vanquis  to take 
precautions during this time. I say this because it wouldnt  be fair and reasonable for 
Vanquis to send Mr O information  which could belong to someone else.  So I cant  say 
Vanquis were responsible  for delays in providing the SAR during this time.
After the investigation concluded,  Vanquis processed Mr Os SAR. On receiving the 
information at the end of November, Mr O said he also wanted the recordings of all calls he 
had made  to Vanquis. Vanquis  said that the process  of extracting and downloading phone 
calls is particularly time consuming, which is why they dont usually provide all calls as part 
of a SAR. Instead,  they provided  all call notes, which I think is reasonable as this provides a 
record of all contact made  with them. This would also allow Mr O to identify any specific calls 
he would  like to listen to. 
However Mr O went on to request all the call recordings. Vanquis did eventually provide all 
the calls, however I think they could have  been  clearer about what  they would  provide  and 
when. Mr O first requested the call recordings at the beginning of December 2018 and they 
werent sent to him until March 2019. During this time he was provided  with very little 
information and he had to chase responses. Further, when he was sent the first set of call 
recordings, from what Ive seen it wasnt clear why these calls had been selected.  
I can see that this unclear  information  would have been inconvenient and distressing for 
Mr O, and it meant he had to contact Vanquis a number of times. However, Vanquis have 
given Mr O £100 compensation to make up for the unnecessary  inconvenience  of having to 
call on a number of occasions and I think this is fair in the circumstances.
So although  I can see there were some  delays to Vanquis providing all the information  Mr O 
requested, I cant hold them completely responsible. I agree that Vanquis could have been 
clearer about what they were able to provide and when  and also with keeping  Mr O updated. 
So I agree they did cause  Mr O some  unnecessary  distress and inconvenience and should 
compensate him for this. I can see Vanguis  has already paid Mr O £100 compensation to 
make up for this inconvenience,  Im satisfied this is fair in the circumstances. I therefore 
wont be telling them to do anything further.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. I therefore dont require Vanquis 
Bank Limited  to do anything further.
Ref: DRN90938543Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9093854