K821x#15complaint
Mr A on behalf of Mrs J complains that the car she acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with Marsh  Finance  Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
This agreement is being brought  by Mr A on behalf  of Mrs J but to avoid confusion, in the 
decision Ill refer only to Mrs J.
Mrs J acquired  a car on 23 March 2018 with the benefit of a hire purchase  agreement with 
Marsh Finance Ltd. The car cost £15,990.01 and at the time it was 5 years old and had done  
over 80,000 miles.
Mrs J says a few weeks later on 13 April 2018, a noise started coming from the rear 
suspension. The report from the roadside repair organisation  at the time diagnosed 
suspects rear suspension arm worn . It advised  Mrs J to take the car to a garage.
The car was taken back to the selling garage  in April and then again in June. The garage 
reported a noise from the rear of the car but couldnt identify what  the specific problem  was. 
It advised Mrs J to bring it back if it got worse. When Mrs J contacted  the garage again in 
September, she was told the garage wouldnt be carrying out any further work as the car 
was now out of warranty.
Mrs J took her complaint  to Marsh Finance who didnt uphold the complaint. It noted that in 
April 2018 Mrs J had been paid £850  for damage to the paintwork while  the car was at the 
garage.
Mrs J then brought her complaint to this office. She said she hadnt felt safe using the car 
until it was repaired and, as she had small children, she wasnt able to use public transport. 
Instead shed  had to hire a car at a cost of £1,500.  She asked for this to be refunded in 
addition to the cost of getting the car repaired.
In February Mr A emailed  in to say the car had now been repaired and so they were  only 
looking for compensation for the distress and inconvenience. The following day however he 
provided a copy of a quote from a main dealership for £2,270  for the cost of replacing the 
flywheel. He understood this was the cause of the original  problem  and asked Marsh  
Finance to refund this cost and compensate Mrs J for the problems shed had since  March  
2018.
Our investigator upheld  Mrs Js complaint in part. She said under the Consumer Rights  Act 
2015, Marsh Finance  was required to ensure that the car provide to Mrs J was of reasonable 
quality bearing  in mind  its age, mileage and cost. In this case Mrs J had noticed a problem 
with the car within the first few weeks. This had been confirmed  by the roadside repair  report 
and by the selling garage who had agreed there was a noise even though it couldnt say 
exactly what it was. On that basis she felt the car hadnt been of satisfactory  quality so the 
options were for Marsh  Finance  to allow Mrs J to reject the car or to have the car repaired or 
replaced.
Ref: DRN93232052In this case Mrs J wanted  to keep the car so she felt it was reasonable for Marsh Finance  to 
cover the cost of the repairs as well as compensating Mrs J for the distress  and 
inconvenience of driving a car with a fault for the past ten months. She recommended  Marsh 
Finance pay Mrs J £2,500. 
Marsh Finance disagreed and said in summary:
The invoice from the main dealership wasnt dated so it wasnt  possible to know 
when this had been issued and whether  it related to the same  problem as before,
There was nothing  to show the car hadnt  been  driveable at all times,
It offered  to pay for a full inspection of the car to see what the current  problems were 
and depending on what the report said, to pay for any repairs.
Mrs J and Marsh Finance asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
On 21 August 2019 I issued a provisional  decision  where I explained, in summary:
There was limited information available both as to the condition  of the car at the point of sale 
and the faults  that arose later. Where  the information was unclear or contradictory,  Id made 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  Marsh  Finance, as the provider of the finance, was 
responsible for ensuring that the car provided was of satisfactory  quality, that is what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory  and, in the case of a car that included, 
its age, price and mileage. However there were limits to this responsibility  and that is that the 
fault or faults must  have  been present or developing at the point of sale.
Mrs J had noticed a noise from the car within the first few weeks.  The roadside  report of 13 
August suggested  it was the rear suspension arm although this wasnt specifically confirmed 
by the selling garage when Mrs J took it back in April and June.
The car was five years old at the point of sale and had done more  than 80,000 miles. 
However it had cost £15,990  and taking this into account, it wasnt unreasonable for Mrs J to 
expect it to be trouble  free for more than a few weeks.
In February 2019,  some  11 months after the Mrs J acquired the car, Mr A had sent in a 
quote for replacing  the flywheel. However there was no diagnostic report  to show  whether  
this was part of the earlier fault or a new problem. Taking into account the limited 
information, and when it was diagnosed, there  wasnt enough evidence to show  this problem 
had been present or developing at the point of sale.
There was no information from the selling garage  or any other garage to say Mrs Js car had 
been unsafe to drive. Mrs J had also been  unable to provide any receipts for the costs  of the 
hire car. In the circumstances I wasnt satisfied that it was necessary or reasonable for Mrs J 
to hire a car. 
Ref: DRN93232053In summary,  I felt it was improbable  that the recent  fault with the flywheel was linked to the 
original problem or that it had been present or developing at the point of sale.  On that basis I 
couldnt reasonably ask Marsh Finance to find the cost of this repair.  However Mrs J had 
noted a noise within the first few weeks and despite  taking  it back  to the selling garage, it 
hadnt identified  or resolved the problem. Instead it had sent her away and asked her to 
come back  if it got worse. But when she did, the garage then said the car was out of 
warranty and refused to do any further  investigations. This seemed unreasonable to me and 
meant that Mrs J had lost the opportunity to get this issue resolved early on.
While there  was nothing  to show this had made the car, I could see that it had caused  her 
inconvenience and reduced her use and enjoyment  of the car. For that reason I considered 
that it as reasonable for Marsh Finance to compensate her for this. I proposed  that Marsh 
Finance should  
a)refund  10% of the payment made by Mrs J from April 2018 when the problem first 
occurred up until February  2019 together with interest at 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
b)pay Mrs J £300 for her trouble and inconvenience arising.
Mr A on behalf of Mrs J disagreed and said:
the selling garage had refused to carry out any more work even though the car had 
been in warranty  when they first reported the noise.
Mrs J had been put under pressure by the finance company to get the car repaired in 
order to get through the MOT in March  2019.
theyd sent in a copy  of a receipt  for £2,100 for having the repairs carried out. He was 
now out of pocket as a result of paying for the repairs  and wanted this to be 
reimbursed as well as compensation  for the inconvenience going back to March 2018  
when Mrs J first acquired the car.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  Having  done so I remain of the view that my 
provisional decision was fair as Ill now explain.
As stated before  where theres no clear evidence on any particular point, Ive considered 
whats more likely than not to have happened and made my decision on the balance of 
probabilities.
In this case Mrs J acquired her car in March 2018  with the benefit of hire purchase.  At the 
time of the sale, the car was over 5 years  old and had done  more than 80,000 miles. 
Mrs J acquired  her car with the benefit  of a hire purchase agreement. As the provider  of the 
finance, Marsh  Finance  has a joint responsibility  to ensure that the car provided  was of 
satisfactory quality, that is what a reasonable person  would consider to be satisfactory in the 
circumstances. In the case of a car this includes its age, mileage and price.  If the car wasnt  
of satisfactory quality then I can direct  Marsh Finance to take steps to put matters right but 
there are limits to that responsibility which is that any fault or faults must have been present 
or developing at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN93232054In this case Mrs J has said that she first noticed a noise early  on when reversing. The car 
went back to the selling garage  but it couldnt  identify any actual fault but in February 2019 
the car was then diagnosed as needing  a replacement flywheel. Mrs J feels the two faults 
are related.  She says Marsh Finance should now refund her £2,100 which  was the cost of 
this repair.as well as compensating her for the inconvenience shes had over the past 
eighteen months. 
I accept there was a noise  early on. Unfortunately the selling garage couldnt pinpoint the 
problem despite  inspecting the car on two occasions. And the roadside report  didnt identify 
any particular problem  although it notes suspects  rear suspension arm worn.
I understand how frustrating it is when  cars go wrong, as well of course  as the cost.  However  
in order to direct Marsh Finance to cover  the cost of this repair  Id need  to be satisfied  that 
the fault was present or developing at the point of sale in March  2018. But on what Ive seen, 
Im not persuaded thats the case.  The car was acquired in March  2018 but the fault with the 
flywheel wasnt diagnosed until February 2019, some 11 months later.
Cars are complicated machines and its not uncommon for faults to develop, especially in 
second hand cars with a higher mileage like Mrs Js. The flywheel is a moveable part that 
will inevitably deteriorate  over time through  the usual wear and tear to be expected of a car 
of this age and mileage. I know Mrs J believes  the later problem is linked to the earlier  noise 
but I havent seen anything  to show that the case.  Although the selling garage inspected the 
car twice  over a three month period, it didnt diagnose a fault with the flywheel. And the 
roadside assistance also didnt raise this as an issue. 
Ive seen the invoice provided by Mr A on behalf of Mrs J but for the reasons given, I dont 
consider theres  sufficient  evidence to show that the later problem was linked to the earlier 
noise or that the problem with the flywheel was present at the point of sale. If thered been a 
fault with the flywheel  at the point  of sale, I think it probable it would have  become  known  
before February  2019 either  by being  diagnosed by the garage or by becoming  more serious 
sooner. The fact it didnt  leads  me to consider, on balance, that it wasnt present at the point 
of sale but developed later on through wear and tear. For that reason I wont  be asking 
Marsh Finance to refund  the cost of this repair.
However as set out in my provisional decision, there was a problem with the car early on that 
wasnt resolved at the time. As this occurred within the first few weeks  of Mrs J taking 
possession of the car I think its reasonable to conclude that it was there at the point of sale. 
Although its unclear precisely what the cause of this noise was, its clear it caused Mrs J 
some inconvenience  as well as reducing her use and enjoyment of the car. For that reason I 
still think its reasonable for Marsh Finance to compensate her for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused by this. Accordingly Ive decided it should refund 10% of the 
payments from March 2018  to February 2019 together with statutory interest  at 8% from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement and also pay £300 compensation.
Ref: DRN93232055my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint in part and direct Marsh  Finance Limited 
to 
a)refund  10% of the monthly payments from March 2018 to February  2019  together  
with 8% statutory simple interest  from the date of payment  to the date of settlement 
and
b)pay £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2020.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9323205