K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
September 2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision,  so 
I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold some of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. I havent  received 
any further information from either Mr A or Satsuma.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that Ive not received anything  
further from either party in relation to this complaint  I see no reason to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
So I dont  think that Satsuma should have  agreed to give loans 4 or 5 to Mr A. Satsuma 
needs to pay him some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Satsuma should have agreed  to lend to Mr A after, and including,  the loan that 
he took on 9 May 2017 (loan  4). So for both of those loans Satsuma should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr As credit  file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr As complaint and direct  Provident Personal 
Credit Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99709562EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr A complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr A was given five loans by Satsuma between  September 2015 and September 2017.  Each of the 
loans was repayable in instalments over a period of around three months. Although Mr A appears to 
have faced some problems  repaying  loan 3, all of his loans have been fully repaid and a summary of 
his borrowing from Satsuma is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 28/09/2015 06/11/2015 £    100
2 24/06/2016 06/10/2016 £    150
3 07/09/2016 06/05/2017 £    300
4 09/05/2017 05/09/2017 £    400
5 30/09/2017 05/01/2018 £    150
Mr As complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  Satsuma had been 
wrong to give the first four loans to Mr A. But he didnt think the final loan should  have been agreed.  
So he asked Satsuma to pay Mr A some compensation. Satsuma didnt  agree with that assessment 
so it has asked that the complaint be decided by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr A could  repay  the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN99709563There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Satsuma  was required to establish whether 
Mr A could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Before lending  to Mr A, Satsuma asked him for details of his income and normal expenditure. And it 
then added a buffer to what Mr A had declared  to take account  of other expenditure it could see from 
its credit check  and estimates of spending from other internal models.  It used that information to 
estimate how much money Mr A had left over each month that he could use to repay  his loan. It also 
gathered some other information about Mr A from his credit file in relation to his financial 
circumstances such as his relationships with other lenders and whether he was facing any debt 
management problems.
I have noted that Mr A asked for his third loan shortly before hed finished repaying his second. That 
in itself might have caused some concerns  to Satsuma. But overall the repayments that Mr A needed  
to make on his first three loans were relatively modest compared to the disposable  income Satsuma  
had calculated.  So given Mr As repayment  amounts,  what was apparent about  his circumstances at 
the time, and his history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma  to 
ask him for the amount  of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything in the information Mr A provided or the information Satsuma shouldve  
been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what he was saying.  
So I dont think Satsuma was wrong  to give these  three loans to Mr A.
Mr A faced problems repaying his third loan. He had agreed to repay that loan over a period  of around 
three months. But he needed to agree at least two repayment plans with Satsuma and actually took 
around eight  months to repay  the loan.  And the credit  check information that Satsuma received before 
agreeing the fourth loan showed a change in Mr As finances. The credit checks before the earlier 
loans didnt show any late payments or other problems.  The credit check  Satsuma received before  
the fourth loan showed  that Mr A was in arrears on some other borrowing.  So that should have 
caused additional concern to Satsuma. And the loan that Mr A was now asking to take was much 
larger than any of the loans  hed taken before.
I havent seen anything to make me think that Satsuma was aware  of any material  improvement in 
Mr As finances.  And the reasons  hed given for not being able to repay  his third loan as agreed 
largely amounted  to him saying that he had other debts and bills that he needed  to pay. So I think  
Satsuma should have concluded that it was unlikely that Mr A would be able to meet  larger 
repayments on a new loan in a sustainable  manner. I dont think that Satsuma  should have continued  
to lend to Mr A from this point  onwards given the obvious pressure on his finances.
So I dont currently think that Satsuma  should  have  agreed  to give loans 4 or 5 to Mr A. Satsuma  
needs to pay him some  compensation.
Ref: DRN9970956