K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has said that his daughters 
medical condition  was pre-existing.
Background
Mr S took out a yearly travel insurance  policy for himself  and his family in November 2017.  
Theyd intended to go on a family  holiday but, before  the trip had commenced, Mr S 
daughter became unwell  and was sadly diagnosed with an eating  disorder. Mr S cancelled  
the holiday and submitted  a cancellation claim to URV, but the insurer declined  it.
URV told Mr S that medical evidence relating to his daughter had shown that her condition 
pre-existed before the policy had been taken  out. URV said that because it hadnt been  told 
about the condition, cover for any claims that related to it wouldnt be available.  Mr S 
disagreed with the insurers  stance  on what was meant by the word  pre-existing, and said 
that his daughters condition had only been diagnosed after the policy had been taken out so 
couldnt have  pre-existed. 
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She understood that the 
circumstances surrounding  the cancellation mustve been distressing, but didnt think  URV 
had unfairly concluded that the condition had pre-existed. She didnt think that the complaint 
should be upheld  and said:
Insurers were  allowed to ask about pre-existing conditions to make decisions about 
risks they were,  or werent, prepared  to cover.
URV made it clear  that it wouldnt cover claims relating  to undeclared pre-existing 
conditions, and had defined pre-existing as any medical condition for which  you 
have received any treatment, prescribed medication, medical  advice, investigation or 
follow up/check up in the last 2 years prior to purchasing this policy. 
The medical evidence  available showed  that Mr S daughter had received  both 
treatment and medical advice in relation to her condition in the two years  before the 
policy was taken  out.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators  opinion and reiterated his position  that his daughter  
didnt have a pre-existing condition at the time of taking out the policy, because  it hadnt 
been diagnosed. Mr S said that URV had used a warped definition to reject his claim and 
asked for things to be reviewed again. So the complaint has been given to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I understand that the 
circumstances surrounding  what happened  in his case were likely to have been difficult for 
Mr S and his family, but I dont think this complaint  is one that should  be upheld.  I will explain 
why.
Mr S took his familys policy out in November 2017.  No pre-existing conditions  were declared 
at the time and, as can be seen on the certificate  of insurance that was issued, URV set out 
that a failure to disclose pre-existing conditions would result  in claims relating those 
conditions not being paid.
Ref: DRN99758662As our investigator explained, URV had defined pre-existing as:
Any medical condition for which you have received any treatment, prescribed medication, 
medical advice, investigation  or follow-up/check up in the 2 years  prior to purchasing this 
policy.
I understand that Mr S disagrees  with URVs definition and thinks  its warped, but URV is 
entitled to define what it means by pre-existing.  In view of that, any medical condition for 
which his daughter had received any treatment, prescribed medication, medical advice, 
investigation or follow-ups/check-ups in the two years prior to the policy being taken out, 
would be considered as pre-existing.
Mr S hasnt seen the entirety of the medical evidence that was made available  to URV 
because its confidential  and relates only to his daughter. When  looking into this complaint, 
our investigator explained that itd be inappropriate of this service to disclose that medical 
evidence to Mr S without him having sought the appropriate authority to see it. Our 
investigator asked Mr S whether he wanted her to look into that point for him further. But as I 
understand, Mr S never responded to that aspect and hasnt, thus far, indicated  that he 
wishes to see the medical  evidence that was provided to URV.
Should Mr S want to, I see no reason as to why he wouldnt be able to take steps outside of 
this service to access that information.  But in setting out my findings here I must keep the 
confidentiality of that evidence in mind. Therefore, itd be inappropriate of me to specifically 
refer to or disclose particular details from it in this decision. 
Having looked  at what has been made available however, Im persuaded that Mr S daughter 
did receive medical treatment and advice relating to her current condition in the two years 
prior to the policy being taken out. I appreciate that the condition hadnt been  formally 
diagnosed at that point,  but Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable for URV to conclude 
that the condition was pre-existing.
URV had explained that cover for claims relating to pre-existing conditions that it hadnt been 
made aware  of wouldnt be available. And, having  considered the available evidence  and 
arguments in this case, I dont think that it acted  unreasonably in declining  this claim. 
I have no reason to doubt that the experiences Mr S and his family went  through  must  have  
been very difficult, but for the reasons given above I wont be asking URV to do anything. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9975866