K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
Mrs P bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ps case. 
Ive concluded  that Mrs Ps PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons  below.
 Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online  credit  card application process where  
PPI wouldve been offered  to Mrs P. This shows that she wouldve had to choose 
whether she wanted PPI or not before she could  continue  with her application. Eggs  
record of the application  data shows that Mrs P selected the PPI. So I think Egg made 
her aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
 Mrs P says that she didnt need  the PPI because she received generous  benefits  from 
her employer  and wasnt  likely to be made  redundant.  But Egg didnt  recommend  the 
policy to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if she needed it or whether it was suitable for 
her. As Mrs P chose to take the PPI, I think she wanted to protect her repayments  
against illness and unemployment.
 Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mrs P wouldve been affected  by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover. Mrs P says she had good employee  benefits, but the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to these.  The policy was also competitively priced  and 
had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:  
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mrs P about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN94512432my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs P any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9451243