K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured commercial loan Mr and Mrs C took out with 
Lloyds Bank  PLC. Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  Lloyds called in the loan after a substantial  
overdraft was ran up on the funding account for the loan. 
background
Mr and Mrs C, operating  as a partnership, took the loan out in November 2016.  This was a 
commercial treasury  loan,  secured by a legal charge over their business premises,  for a little 
under £269,000 (inclusive of arrangement fee). Alongside the loan account was a business 
current account, from which the monthly  loan repayments were made. 
Between June  2017 and March 2018, there  were  seven occasions where the current  
account was left overdrawn after the loan payment  had been made. It returned to credit in 
between times, but from March 2018 onwards, Mr and Mr C stopped funding the current 
account altogether.  The loan payments continued to be transferred, but the current  account 
became further  and further overdrawn with each successive instalment.
In July, 2018, having not received what it considered a satisfactory  response to its requests 
for further  funding, Lloyds issued a formal demand  to call in the loan and overdraft. 
Mr and Mr C complained,  saying this was disproportionate and heavy-handed. 
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  was at fault; Mr and Mrs C dont agree and want the 
complaint reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
new for Mr and Mrs C, as I dont think Lloyds has done anything  wrong  here either.
The starting point  is whether  Lloyds can do what it did; thats a relatively straightforward test 
in that the terms  of the underlying agreement allows Lloyds to call in the debt  in its entirety  
 where there has been an Event of Default. 
The nature of the agreement is such that loan repayment will always be made from the 
current account to the loan account; in that context at least, loan payments cant be missed. 
But a failure  to ensure the current account  has enough money to cover the loan repayments 
is on the Events of Default list specified  in the agreement. 
That happened no fewer  than ten times in a twelve-month  period; that being  so, theres no 
doubt Lloyds had the right to call in the debt in the way it did. But theres a second test for 
me to consider also. Its not enough  for Lloyds  to have the right to act as it did; I also have to 
be satisfied the action was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive no doubt this is a distressing situation for Mr and Mrs C. But it seems to me that the 
underlying issue  is that, as a result of the funding problems and lack of a significant  
response to its attempts to contact  them,  Lloyds  has most likely lost the confidence in 
Mr and Mrs C as business people  that it feels it needs if its to continue with the original  
lending agreement.
Ref: DRN99134162Clearly, Mr and Mrs C dont think it was fair and reasonable  of Lloyds to do what it did. But 
what they are asking me to do, in effect, is second-guess Lloyds commercial judgement. 
Thats not something this service  generally  does, especially  in the context  of debt recovery,  
and Im not convinced there are grounds for me to make an exception and do so here.
Theres a suggestion  (from Mr and Mrs C) that the problem arose due to the absence  on 
leave of the staff member  they appointed to manage the partnership finances.  Im not sure 
that helps their case. The staff member wasnt a party  to the loan agreement, and whilst the 
task of keeping  the current  account  fully funded might be delegated  to an employee, the 
responsibility for ensuring its carried out cannot be. This was always  Mr and Mrs Cs 
concern, and Im not going to say Lloyds was wrong  if it came  to the conclusion that they 
werent doing enough to solve  it.
Lloyds has held off taking more formal recovery action since  weve been looking at the 
complaint; in effect thats given Mr and Mrs C a years grace  in which  to pursue re-financing 
options. Lloyds  told us that it will listen to what they have  to say on whether theres a viable 
proposal to re-finance.  I cant  tell Mr and Mrs C what to do but it would seem reasonable to 
suggest they avail themselves of that offer to talk, and see if common ground can be found 
that can avoid  the need  for possession  proceedings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9913416