  complaint
Mr B complains about Swinton Group Ltd (Swinton) for its decision not to provide Mr B with 
insurance, without giving him a reason. Mr B is also concerned that he has continued to 
receive marketing material from Swinton, prompting  him to apply for home insurance, but 
has then been  rejected.  He wants Swinton to explain why it will not insure him, and to 
provide compensation for his distress and wasted  time in applying.
  background
Mr B previously held insurance with Swinton. This cover ended in 2011 when Swinton wrote 
to Mr B explaining that, because he had made a number of complaints about Swinton, it no 
longer wished to act as his insurance  broker, and would not be providing him with insurance 
after the end of his then current  policy.
Mr B made other arrangements to continue his insurance after the end of that policy,  and 
later complained to Swinton about  the inconvenience he had experienced and that he had 
incurred greater costs  in obtaining  cover  elsewhere. Swinton responded to that complaint 
rejecting the complaint but making  a goodwill  gesture to Mr B of £50 to recognise his 
increased costs and that he had experienced inconvenience.
Around 2017, Mr B applied  for a quote  for insurance through  Swinton. He was unable  to 
pursue the quote and complained to Swinton that he had wasted time in applying for cover. 
Swinton rejected his complaint but made a further goodwill gesture to him of £25 for his 
inconvenience.
Mr B then received marketing information from Swinton in 2018  and 2019. Mr B found this 
frustrating as when  he contacted Swinton he has been told he will not be insured.
Mr B complained to Swinton in spring 2019. Swinton  responded to him in May 2019,  
clarifying that it had made the decision not to provide him with insurance services and 
explaining that when he applied for a quote this triggered marketing alerts to be sent to him 
prior to his renewal date.  Swinton has advised  that it has removed Mr Bs details from its 
marketing system and told him that no further  marketing  material  will be sent. It has advised 
that if he does  make  any further  enquiry  with Swinton, he should ensure he confirms that he 
does not wish to receive  marketing  information. Swinton offered Mr B £50 for his 
inconvenience.
Mr B was not happy with Swintons response, and he contacted us.
One of our investigators  has looked  into his complaint  and set out her view to the parties. 
This was that Swinton has not acted unreasonably  that it is free to decide  whether it wishes  
to provide insurance services to any person it chooses. She also considered that although it
K820x#14
Ref: DRN9006897might be confusing for Mr B to receive  marketing  material,  she thought that Swinton had 
done enough in offering him £50 compensation.
Mr B did not accept that view and requested  an ombudsman decision.
  my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr B has found  his experiences with Swinton frustrating and confusing. I 
can see that receiving marketing material when he understands  that Swinton has decided 
not to offer him insurance services might  suggest to him that there had been a change  in 
Swintons decision  and encourage him to apply. I also appreciate that he has spent time 
completing enquiries as a result of this confusion.
However, I must consider whether Swinton has done anything wrong in the particular 
circumstances. Only if I consider that it has treated Mr B unfairly can I consider directing 
Swinton to take particular action, including in paying compensation.
Swinton has explained to Mr B that in 2011 it decided not to provide  him with further cover 
as a result  of the number of complaints he had made about Swinton, and the amount of 
compensation he had sought.  I have not seen the content of those complaints, and I do not 
make any assessment of their validity, but Swinton explained that it considered that Mr B 
may be happier with the service provided  by another broker.
Businesses are entitled to make commercial decisions about whether they are willing to 
provide cover to any individual.  So long as their decision is not discriminatory,  it is 
reasonable for them to refuse  to provide services to any person,  just as it is reasonable for 
any person to refuse to contract  with any business.
Swinton has given its reasons for its decision  as that Mr B was not satisfied with the level of 
service Swinton provided and I am satisfied that this reason is not discriminatory.
Mr B clearly  understood at that time that he was not going to receive further services from 
Swinton as he obtained insurance cover elsewhere,  and then complained to Swinton that it 
had resulted in higher costs to him.
Since that time, Mr B has made enquiries with Swinton which have caused marketing 
material to be generated and sent to him. As I set out above, I can see that receiving this 
material could be confusing, but I cannot  see that Swinton has ever indicated to Mr B that 
the decision from 2011 has changed  or been retracted.
Marketing leads are generated when a business  receives an enquiry and the material Mr B 
received was as a consequence of his making enquiries with Swinton. I am pleased that 
Swinton has now taken steps  to ensure no further  material is sent to Mr B, but I do not think 
it was unreasonable that the material sent in 2018 and 2019 was automatically generated 
and sent out.
Consequently, I do not consider that there  is evidence that Swinton has done anything 
substantially wrong,  and I do not think  that Swinton has treated Mr B unfairly. I note that
Ref: DRN9006897K820x#14Swinton offered Mr B £50 compensation for his confusion at receiving material  which  
was not relevant to him, and I am satisfied  that is sufficient action in respect  of this 
complaint.
I would not ask Swinton to do anything further.
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr B, but I hope  it clearly explains 
why I have reached it.
  my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and do not ask 
Swinton Group Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
  ombudsman
Ref: DRN9006897