K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc deleted all of the standing  orders  and direct 
debits on his business account,  which led to him losing some business.
background
Mr S runs a small shop.  His National Lottery and PayPoint machines were  switched off 
because the direct debits  hadnt been paid. Lloyds  admitted to making a mistake  which  
caused direct debits to be cancelled in error.  While this was sorted out, Mr S says the 
PayPoint machine  was not working for a week, the Lottery machine was off for two weeks, 
and his card payment machine was also affected. He says he lost £1,400  in revenue 
because of this.
Lloyds paid Mr S £300 for the inconvenience caused  by their error, and an additional  £10 to 
cover the cost of the calls he had to make.
Our adjudicator found that Mr S had suffered additional losses. He recommended Lloyds 
should refund Mr S two £90 penalty  charges  applied by PayPoint, and refund a £25 failed 
standing order fee they applied to his account. He also recommended that Lloyds should pay 
Mr S a further £200 to recognise the loss of profit  caused by their mistake. This meant the 
total compensation would  be £715.
Lloyds agreed  with the adjudicator but Mr S didnt. He feels that, because he lost out on 
£1,400 turnover, £715 is not enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have accepted that they made a mistake, which was down to human error. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that there  was any other  cause, so I wont go into detail about what 
happened and why. Instead I will look how this affected Mr S, and what is fair to compensate 
him for this error.
Mr S has had charges  applied because of Lloyds mistake, and it is fair for them to cover the 
costs of these - £180 charges by PayPoint  and the £25 fee from Lloyds. I also agree that 
Lloyds should  pay Mr S £10 for the costs  of the calls he had to make to sort out the problem. 
Mr S objects to the £300 he has already been  paid for the inconvenience  caused by Lloyds 
mistake, as he doesnt think this reflected the stress he felt at the time. I appreciate  that this 
was a stressful time for Mr S, but Lloyds sorted  out the problem quickly. This meant that the 
inconvenience caused to Mr S was limited. Because of this I think  that £300 is fair for the 
inconvenience caused, so I will not be recommending  any more for this.
Mr S also objects to the £200 recommended for the loss of profit,  which he feels  is not 
enough. Mr S says he lost £1,400 turnover as a result of Lloyds mistake,  but turnover is not 
profit. Im aware that commissions  on lottery sales, PayPoint transactions etc. are modest, 
and it would not be reasonable to expect Mr S to have evidence  of the sales  he missed out 
on because customers couldnt  pay by card. This means that any loss in profit would  be very 
difficult, if not impossible,  to quantify.
Ref: DRN99730892The adjudicator has recommended  £200  to cover  the lost profits. It isnt possible to say what  
Mr S lost in profits for the time his machines werent  working but, because of the profit 
margins and the fact that some customers would have paid in cash, I think  that £200 feels  
reasonable. For this reason I agree with the adjudicator that Lloyds should pay Mr S £200  to 
compensate him for the loss in profits.
putting things right
Lloyds Bank  Plc should pay Mr S:
£180 for the PayPoint penalty  charges.
£25 for the failed  standing order fee.
£200 for the loss in profit caused by their error.
This is a total of £405 and is in addition to the £310 already paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc must follow the 
directions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019 .
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9973089