K820x#14complaint
Mrs Rs complained on behalf of herself and her late husband Mr Rs estate that 
Europaische Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) turned down their travel  insurance claim. 
Mrs R has been helped  by her son-in-law in bringing this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to 
all actions and comments as being those of Mrs R. 
background
Mr and Mrs R bought  a travel insurance  policy over the phone. As they wanted to holiday  
outside of Europe ERV asked them to complete a medical screening. ERV offered Mr and
Mrs R a policy but said it wouldnt cover  Mr Rs pre-existing degenerative disease (which  Ill 
refer to as the disorder). Mr and Mrs R bought the policy  and went  on a cruise which 
included Worldwide  and European destinations.
While they were on the cruise Mr R became unwell with a serious infection  pneumonia.  He 
left the ship and went to hospital  in Europe.  ERV paid for Mrs Rs accommodation costs  
while Mr R was in hospital. After a couple of weeks in hospital  Mr R was flown home to the 
UK in an air ambulance which his family paid for. ERV said his illness wasnt  covered by his 
policy as patients  with the disorder  have a greater risk of such  infections. ERV said pre-
existing conditions were  specifically excluded by his policy which meant  the claim wasnt  
covered. A few weeks  after returning home Mr R sadly died.
Mrs R brought the complaint to our service as she didnt think  it was fair for ERV to turn 
down the claim. She said Mr R died from pneumonia and not the disorder. She also said he 
had the disorder for a number of years  and had never had pneumonia before. She said Mr R 
had been to his doctor  before his holiday and had been told he was fit to go on the cruise.
Our investigator thought ERVs finding  that the claim wasnt covered was reasonable. He 
thought ERV had provided enough information to show Mr Rs claim arose  directly  or 
indirectly from the disorder. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She said she wasnt aware  that she and Mr R werent covered for 
pre-existing conditions outside  of Europe.  Or that they werent  covered for any conditions  
linked to pre-existing conditions. She also said Mr R was in Europe when he disembarked 
the cruise and so the policy should cover  them  in Europe. Mrs R also said Mr R hadnt had 
pneumonia before so hadnt  needed  treatment for a pre-existing condition. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs R was hoping for so Ive set out my reasons 
for this below. 
The medical screening information page of Mr and Mrs Rs policy  says There will be NO 
COVER on the policy  for medical conditions marked as DECLINED . It also says the cover 
wont apply to any claim arising directly or indirectly from any pre-existing medical  conditions  
that havent been accepted by ERV.  The disorder is listed as a declared  condition that ERV 
declined to cover. 
Ref: DRN97873132There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Mr and Mrs R knew Mr R wasnt covered for the 
disorder. However, Mrs R said Mr R died from pneumonia and not the disorder. ERV said his 
condition was made dramatically worse by the disorder.
I can see the report from the hospital  Mr R was admitted  to in Europe lists both pneumonia 
and the disorder under the Diagnostics heading of its report. Mr Rs death certificate  lists 
the cause of death as I(a) Severe Sepsis (b) Bronchopneumonia II [the disorder].
The medical report from ERVs medical assistance company said Mr R presented to the 
cruise boatwith worsening [disorder]  symptoms. It also said its clear that [disorder] 
patients have  a greater risk from respiratory infections related to both an increased risk of 
aspiration and to a reduced cough  ability. The main causes  of mortality from [the disorder] 
are linked to falls and pneumonia.  I think this report gives a clear explanation of how the 
infection Mr R had is most likely to have arisen from the disorder. It also shows  that Mr Rs 
symptoms were thought  to be a worsening of the disorder rather  than an unrelated  illness.  
Ive seen information from Mr Rs doctor  to support  that he was fit to go on the holiday and 
accept he wasnt suffering from the infection before the trip. However the policy doesnt only 
decline cover  for pre-existing conditions, it also declines  cover for any claims arising  from 
those conditions either directly or indirectly. I dont think  the medical information from Mr Rs 
doctors say the conditions  arent  linked, only that his pre-existing conditions  were well-
controlled and that he was fit and fine at the time he left. While its impossible to know 
whether Mr R would  have fallen ill with pneumonia if he didnt have the disorder, I have to 
make a decision on what I thinks most likely. On balance Im satisfied ERV has shown it 
was reasonable  to conclude that Mr Rs claim arose directly  or indirectly  from the disorder.
Mrs R said she wasnt aware that the policy didnt cover claims arising indirectly from pre-
existing conditions or that they wouldnt be covered in Europe. She also said Mr R would 
have been covered if hed not taken  the worldwide policy and only holidayed in Europe  as he 
would have been covered  for his pre-existing conditions. 
Im satisfied it was clear on the medical  screening  page that claims arising  directly  or 
indirectly from pre-existing conditions  wouldnt be covered, regardless of whether they were 
in Europe or elsewhere. The medical  screening  page also says therell  be no cover  on the 
policy for the declined  conditions. Mr and Mrs R bought a worldwide policy so I think it was 
clear that this applied  in Europe as well. 
Ive also looked  at the wording on the policy document which says theres a requirement  for 
policyholders to go through medical  screening when travelling to worldwide destinations. 
Mr and Mrs R went on a worldwide cruise and did go through  medical screening. Following 
this ERV sent the medical screening letter to let them know it wouldnt cover claims arising 
directly or indirectly from pre-existing  conditions  under the policy.  When taking  all that into 
account Im satisfied ERV made this information  clear. 
Mr and Mrs R chose a worldwide policy for a worldwide trip and Mr Rs medical condition 
was a risk ERV wasnt willing to cover. While I understand how distressing this has been for 
Mrs R and her family, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to ask ERV to pay to 
cover a claim it had set out in the medical  screening  document that it wouldnt cover.  
For the reasons  set out above, Im not going to interfere with ERVs decision to turn down 
the claim.  
Ref: DRN97873133my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R, to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9787313