K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt make it clear  that he would be charged  for 
making transactions with his credit  card.  To put things  right,  he wants them to refund these 
charges and provide compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
background
Mr S took out a Barclaycard  credit card in March  2017. The card benefited from two 
promotional offers; 0% interest on promotional spending, and 0% interest on balance  
transfers. Both of these  offers  were valid until 18 April 2019.
In January 2019 Mr S complained to Barclays that he had been charged  for some gambling 
transactions he had made using the card. 
Barclays said that gambling transactions are considered  cash  transactions, and the interest 
and fees were outlined in the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account, and on his monthly 
statements. So they didnt  agree  that the charges were applied  unfairly.  But they did feel the 
service Mr S received  from them  when  he made  his complaint  had been  poor, and paid him 
a total of £50 compensation  for the inconvenience  caused and the time hed spent  on the 
telephone to them.  
Mr S brought his complaint to our service  as he doesnt think that these charges are clear  
from Barclays terms and conditions. And he feels theyve misrepresented the promotional 
offers he was sold. 
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. They thought it was clear from 
the terms and conditions that gambling transactions are subject to a cash  fee. And they felt 
that the compensation Barclays had paid Mr S for the poor service  he received when he 
made his complaint was reasonable.
Mr S disagrees. He thinks Barclays should  have highlighted  when  he took out the credit card 
that cash purchases were  not included in the interest free promotion.  And hes told us hed 
had problems accessing his monthly statements, so hadnt been aware that fees and interest 
were being  applied. So the case has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr S will be disappointed,  but I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to refund him any charges here. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate Mr S wasnt aware  he would be charged for making these transactions. But 
Barclays terms and conditions explain that gambling transactions  are considered  cash like 
transactions, and are one of the things that make  up the cash balance  on the card. They  
also state that a 2.99%  fee applies to cash transactions. 
This is the fee that was applied to Mr Ss transactions. So Im satisfied that Barclays  were  
entitled to apply this fee, and did so in line with the terms  and conditions  of the account. I 
understand Mr S doesnt feel that the terms and conditions explain this very well. But having 
read them Im satisfied that they do set this out clearly.
Ref: DRN91541662Mr Ss account had the benefit of two promotions, one of which was for 0% interest  on 
promotional spending.  I can see that in addition  to the cash transaction  fees, Mr S was 
charged some interest on the cash balance on his card. Mr S didnt realise  that these 
transactions werent included in the interest  free promotion on his account. So I appreciate  
why hes upset about this. 
The terms and conditions  explain that the main  balance of the account is made up of the 
standard balance,  cash  balance  and promotional balance.  So I think  its clear that the cash 
balance is separate  to any promotional balance  which  the terms and conditions  say is 
made up of transactions with promotional terms. So in my opinion Barclays were  correct to 
apply interest charges  to Mr Ss cash balance.
Mr S feels  it should have been  highlighted to him when he took out the card that cash 
transactions were  excluded from the 0% interest promotion. Ive listened to a number  of call 
recordings from around this time,  and I cant hear that he was told this. But the advisor  Mr S 
spoke to about Barclays credit card offers didnt go into any detail about the terms and 
conditions of them. And I cant hear that Mr S asked him to. Furthermore, I agree with our 
investigator that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect  Barclays to highlight all of their terms 
and conditions over the telephone. 
Mr S has asked  us to listen to a call he had with Barclays after raising his complaint with 
them. Barclays havent been able to locate  this call. But theyve confirmed that the marketing 
material Mr S would have  seen didnt state  that cash transactions  were  excluded from the 
promotional offer either. Theyve said this is because the relevant charges  are detailed in the 
account terms and conditions, and customers are directed  to read these. Mr S says he didnt 
do so because he was told they just contained  general information about the account. And 
he considers this term to be an unusual one that Barclays should have taken steps to draw 
to his attention.  
Barclays dont agree - they say that all card providers  will charge a fee for cash  like 
transactions and treat these differently to other  purchases.  I appreciate Mr S might not have 
been familiar with this. But Barclays have explained he would have been asked to read the 
account terms and conditions when he made his credit card application online.  Even  though 
I appreciate he didnt realise  they would contain  information relevant to the promotions, I 
think its reasonable for Barclays to expect him to have done so. And if he had, I feel he 
ought to have reasonably been  aware of these charges  and the fact the cash  balance wasnt  
included in the 0% interest promotion. 
I can also see that the fees and interest  charges for these transactions were clearly  
explained on Mr Ss account  statements. And that they were listed separately  from 
promotional transactions. So again,  I think Barclays took reasonable steps to make the 
charges to clear  to Mr S, and to show him that they werent part of the promotional offers.
I understand Mr S wasnt able to access his account  statements for some time as he had 
problems logging into his online account,  so he hadnt seen that these charges were  being 
applied. I appreciate if he had done,  he would have acted sooner to avoid them. 
Ref: DRN91541663Barclays have shown  us that they dont have any record of Mr S telling them he needed help 
accessing his statements. And the only time I can hear Mr S mentioned  he wasnt  able to log 
in online  on the calls Ive listened to he told the advisor this was just because  he didnt have 
his credit card with him, but hed log on later. If Mr S had told Barclays  he wasnt  able to view 
his statements, Id expect  to see that theyd  tried to help him. But as I havent seen any 
evidence that he did, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask them to refund him any fees 
or interest  because of this.
I do agree  that Barclays didnt provide  Mr S with the level of service he should  expect when 
he raised this complaint  with them. And I appreciate that would have  been  very frustrating. 
But I feel the £50 compensation  hes been  given for this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr S will be very disappointed, but as I havent found that Barclays  made any 
further error  or acted unreasonably when they applied the fees and interest  to his account, 
Im not going  to ask them to do anything further in respect of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9154166