K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains about end of contract charges  when  she terminated her agreement  with 
PSA Finance UK Limited. 
background
Ms L was supplied with a car and entered  into an agreement with PSA. Approximately two 
years later and following termination of the agreement the car was collected for inspection.  
PSA asked Ms L to pay end of contract  damage  charges and charges for a missing  service 
record. The damage  charges of £130 have been waived but the missing service charge of 
£200 remains outstanding.
Ms L disputes the charges. She says she returned the car with approximately  6700 miles 
and that a service  wasnt required until 10,000 miles. She says she never received any 
reminders about servicing the car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said PSA had provided Ms L with sufficient 
information at the point  of supply about the service requirements. She also said the car was 
required to be serviced every 16,000 miles or annually, whichever came first, and that 
because Ms L hadnt done this the charges  for a missing service  were fair.
Ms L didnt  agree. She said PSA hadnt contacted  her to ask her to service the car and that 
because she hadnt signed the collection report  she didnt feel she was obliged to pay 
anything.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This says that the service history  was incomplete. The 
absence of a service history (or missed  service)  is a missing item which PSA is entitled  to 
charge for.
I appreciate that Ms L thought that the car didnt  need servicing until it reached 10,000 miles. 
I also appreciate that the car had covered significantly less than 10,000 miles when Ms L 
returned it. But having looked  at the service schedule, this says that for normal condition  of 
use services are due every 16,000 miles or annually,  whichever  comes  first. For arduous 
conditions of use, the service interval  is every  10,000 miles or annually,  whichever comes 
first. So even though  Ms L hadnt  covered 10,000 miles she should  have had the car 
serviced annually  according to the terms and conditions of the agreement.  Because  the car 
wasnt serviced in accordance with the service  schedule Im satisfied that the charges are 
fair.
Ive taken into account the comments made by Ms L about not being asked to service the 
car by PSA.  The obligation to service  the car in accordance with the service schedule  arises 
out of the hire purchase agreement itself and theres no requirement  on PSA to ask or 
remind Ms L when to service the car. 
That said I can see that PSA wrote  to Ms L before  her agreement ended and provided  her 
with information  about the collection process.  Within that was information about what  should 
Ref: DRN99235752be with the car when  it was returned,  and this included the service history.  I think  this should  
have acted as a reminder to Ms L that the servicing of the car was one of the things  she 
should check before returning the car. Im satisfied  that Ms L was given a reasonable 
opportunity to take remedial action and have the car serviced before it needed to be 
returned.
I appreciate that Ms L says she didnt receive these letters.  I can see that they were sent to 
Ms Ls registered address so I cant say PSA made an error. If Ms L changed address then 
its her obligation  to notify PSA of her current address. I cant  see that she did this.
Ms L says she isnt obliged to pay anything because she didnt sign the collection 
documents. But the absence of a signature on the collection report  makes no difference  to 
Ms Ls liability  to pay the charges, because it is the hire purchase agreement  itself (which 
was signed by Mss L) which says that she is responsible for returning the car having 
complied with the servicing  requirements.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think the charges  are fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9923575