K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a debt that NRAM Limited is trying  to recover  from Mr H. He says its 
not his debt and even  if it was, NRAM is statute-barred  from pursuing him for it.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the amounts involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr H when my decision is 
published.
The debt NRAM is looking to recover has its origins  in a joint mortgage taken out with 
Northern Rock in 2007, in the names  of Mr H and a Miss G. NRAMs predecessor business 
 for simplicitys sake, Ill refer throughout to NRAM. Miss G is not present  in the complaint. 
The mortgage application was submitted through a third party intermediary, which  Ill call F. 
The lending was in two parts; one was secured, the other unsecured. 
In 2012, the mortgaged property was taken into possession and sold. Before the sale 
completed, NRAM received a complaint from Mr H about the way the property was being 
marketed. It issued a final response to the complaint, but posted it to the mortgaged  
property, as it didnt  have a current address for Mr H. The property sale was completed in 
December 2012.  Once all the costs  of sale had been added  to the outstanding debt, the sale 
price fell short by almost £58,000.  
Over the years that followed, NRAM  attempted to contact Mr H about the shortfall.  It wrote  to 
him at various locations without success, until it eventually traced him to his current  address 
in June 2018. Once a dialogue  had been  established with Mr H, NRAM forwarded  a copy  of 
the final response from 2012.  
Mr H has complained in the strongest terms about NRAMs actions in asking him for 
repayment proposals. Hes said, variously:
he doesnt admit liability for the debt;
the mortgage and unsecured loan were  unsuitable  at the outset  and therefore  mis-sold;
hes not seen  a satisfactory breakdown  of how the shortfall debt arose;
NRAM has waited too long to contact him so is statute-barred from recovering the debt; 
and
He never  participated  in the original  mortgage and never lived in the mortgaged  property  
and knows nothing  about it.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. Briefly,  he thought Mr H was the 
same person  who applied  for and took out the mortgage with Miss G. He was satisfied with 
the manner of the sale, and that the amount of the shortfall  debt was fair. 
Ref: DRN94980322He made  no comment on the suitability of the advice to take the mortgage out in the first 
place. He explained that that would need  to be a separate complaint to F, the broker  that 
had submitted the application to NRAM, and that Miss G would need to join him in making 
the complaint.
Mr H asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He was unhappy that the 
investigator had relied on documents from NRAM that hed not seen. The investigator sent 
Mr H copies of the documents in June of this year so that could comment  on them if he 
wished to. Mr H hasnt  done so.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what has 
happened, and the available  evidence is either incomplete, contradictory, or both, I reach my 
conclusions on the basis of what I think is most likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats  the same  test that the courts use in civil disputes.
Mr H has gone to great pains to say he doesnt recognise or acknowledge the debt as being 
his. Thats  his prerogative  of course, but what he perhaps doesnt realise is that by framing  
his complaint as he has done and asking for it to be determined by an ombudsman,  he has 
called on me to decide if this is his debt. 
The point of sale documentation from 2007 includes, amongst other things, a copy passport, 
payslip, and a credit agreement bearing a signature  that bears more  than a passing 
resemblance to the signature on the complaint form Mr H sent us. I dont find it likely that 
another person with the same name, date of birth, employer and signature applied  for the 
mortgage with Miss G. 
Im satisfied that Mr H is the person who (with Miss G) took out the mortgage  from which  the 
shortfall debt originates; put simply,  I find this to be his debt. That shouldnt  come as a 
surprise to Mr H; after all, if the property and the mortgage on it werent his to begin with, 
hed have had no reason  to complain in 2012 about  how NRAM was marketing it. I look at 
that next.
Ive considered how the shortfall amount is made up and if NRAM acted fairly when the 
mortgaged property was sold in possession. The starting point here is that NRAMs duty was 
to sell the property  for the best price  (not the highest)  achievable within a reasonable period of 
time. Thats a somewhat  subjective test, but in essence, a lender shouldnt sell for too low a 
price to achieve a quick sale nor unduly delay a sale (thus  adding  further  to the borrowers  
interest costs) to achieve an unrealistically  high price.  
Ref: DRN94980323Its about finding a balance between  the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
required to obtain  two independent  valuations, and then to market  the property with a view to 
achieving a selling price at, or close to, the valuations.  In this case, Im satisfied thats  what  
NRAM did. 
Ultimately, any property  is only worth  what someone  is willing to pay for it at any given time. 
I cant say one way or another whether there were possible shortcomings or factual 
inaccuracies in the actual  valuations NRAM obtained at the time. These  were  the work  of 
surveying firms and/or estate agents, not NRAM itself. 
My remit  doesnt extend to questioning  the content of the reports, and I dont  find that NRAM 
had an obligation  to challenge  or second guess  it either. These were the professional opinions 
of the parties  NRAM was required to consult. It was entitled to rely on those opinions when 
deciding how much to try and sell the property for. Having seen the closing statement at the 
point of sale in 2012, Ive no reason to find the amount of the shortfall to be incorrect.
Mr H points out that because NRAM sent the final response to the complaint he made in 
2012 to the mortgaged property, he couldnt  have received  it. I take his point, and on first 
glance, it does  seem odd that a lender would write to a borrower at the mortgaged  property  
when it knows theyre  not there anymore. 
But sometimes a lender has no choice but to do that; if it doesnt know  where  the borrower is 
living, all it can do is send mail to the last known address (i.e. the mortgaged property) and 
hope the borrower has put mail redirect in place.  On that latter  point, when a borrower  
leaves a mortgaged  property that has been repossessed, they have duty to inform  the lender  
of their new address.  If a borrower  doesnt  do that, I cant  fairly  criticise the lender for not 
knowing where to find them.
Having established  that this is Mr Hs debt, and that the transaction  that gave rise to it was 
fairly conducted, I now have to decide if NRAM can fairly seek repayment proposal  from 
Mr H. Mr H says that NRAM  is statute-barred from pursuing him for the debt because  more 
than six years have passed.  Im afraid  Mr H has rather mis-directed  himself.
The statutory time limits for secured and unsecured debts arent the same.  The law allows  
six years  for unsecured debts and twelve years  for secured debt (albeit in the latter  case  
there is industry-wide acceptance that six years  is good practice). So for practical purposes, 
when considering what is fair, this service applies a six-year  limit to secured and unsecured  
debt alike. The limitation period starts from the date of the borrower  last made  a payment or 
acknowledged the debt in some way.
In Mr Hs case, its reasonable  to conclude that he acknowledged the debt that NRAM is now 
asking him to pay when  he made the complaint that NRAM  replied to in October 2012. That 
complaint was about how NRAM  was marketing the property in possession. So the very 
earliest he could  have started  the complaint (and in doing so, acknowledged  that he owed 
NRAM money under the mortgage from which the shortfall subsequently crystallised)  is the 
date of possession,  which was 16 July 2012.  In reality, its likely  he started the complaint  
later than that, but even if I give him the benefit of the earliest possible date, it doesnt help 
his argument.
Thats because six years from 16 July 2012  is 16 July 2018,  and NRAM wrote  to Mr H at his 
current address to tell him of the shortfall  on 22 June 2018. Mr H must clearly  have received 
Ref: DRN94980324that letter, because  NRAM  wrote to him again on 27 June 2018 to acknowledge his 
complaint about  it. 
Putting all of the above together, my overall  conclusion is that the shortfall NRAM is seeking 
is a valid debt for which it can fairly hold Mr H liable, and can fairly seek his proposals for 
repaying it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9498032