K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2002.
background
The policy was taken  out in a meeting, at the same time that the mortgage was arranged.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr L disagreed with these  findings. He has reiterated that he was unaware that he had 
agreed to take out PPI at this time.  Had he known,  Mr L says that he would have declined 
this cover,  as that is what he had always done  previously  with other loans. Mr L has also 
questioned whether he had a need  for PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
Mr L has said that he did not agree to take out PPI. Clearly I cannot know  for certain what 
happened when  the policy was arranged. I am mindful that the meeting that resulted in PPI 
cover commencing  occurred a number of years  ago, in my view making it more  difficult  to 
recall in detail.
The mortgage application included a section relating to PPI. There  was a statement that the 
applicant would like to take advantage of the policy. Mr L signed  in this section of the form.
I have carefully considered Mr Ls comments regarding the sale of PPI. I have to determine  
what I consider most likely happened at this time. Based on the evidence  provided, including  
the mortgage application, on balance  I consider  it more likely than not that PPI was 
presented as an optional product to Mr L, and that he chose to take it out.
Bank of Scotland accepts that it advised  Mr L to take out PPI. It therefore had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable. It also had to give clear, fair and 
not misleading information  about  the PPI so that Mr L could make a properly informed 
choice.
Having looked  at Mr Ls circumstances when the policy was sold,  my view is that it was 
suitable for him for the following reasons:
Mr L has confirmed his employee benefits  available to him at the time he took out the 
policy, and the other  means that he says he also had which could help cover  his 
mortgage repayments. Even taking these into account, bearing in mind  the importance  of 
maintaining mortgage  repayments, my view is that PPI did provide a useful benefit to Mr 
L if he was unable  to work because of disability or unemployment. The policy would have 
paid a benefit for up to 24 months in the event of a successful claim.
Mr L has also mentioned  a separate insurance  policy that he had in place when he took 
Ref: DRN91260922out PPI, and he has supplied additional information  to this service  about it. However, it 
appears that this policy was intended to provide cover for healthcare bills, and so the PPI 
policy does not seem to have duplicated  this existing cover that he had. Overall  I 
consider the policy  was suitable for Mr L as a means  of protection  over and above his 
existing provision at this time. 
Mr L was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main  
things not covered  by the policy that might make  it unsuitable for him.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable.
There might  have been other areas  in which Halifax didnt give Mr L as much information as 
it should have  done. But for the same  reasons  that Ive decided  the policy  was suitable,  my 
view is that better information would not have put him off taking out the PPI. I appreciate that 
Mr L will be disappointed with my findings. However my conclusion is that the policy was not 
mis-sold.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mr L paid for it. But Bank of 
Scotland has already offered to give Mr L back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it 
needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr L now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9126092