K821x#15Complaint
Mr L, who is represented by his daughter Mrs P, complains that Volkswagen Financial  
Services (UK) Limited (VFS) delayed collecting a car at the end of the hire agreement  
causing inconvenience and expense.
Background
In July 2013 Mr L and his late wife entered into a hire agreement to fund the acquisition  of a 
new car. The agreement  was a period of two years with a maximum annual  mileage of 
10,000. The period was extended, but a further  extension  was refused in November 2017.
VFS says it contacted  its agents on 7 December  to arrange for the collection of the car and 
presumed it was taking action. However, it did not follow this up until it received an email 
from Mrs P on 11 May 2018.   
Mrs P says she had made a number of calls to both VFS and the agent, but neither business 
has any record of these.  Mrs P says she was waiting for the delivery  of a new car, but as the 
old one wasnt collected she had to cancel that. 
The car was inspected by agents acting for VFS in May 2018 and collected on 26 October 
2018. VFS raised  invoices for the extra days hire, excess mileage and refurbishment 
charges. Mrs P complained on her parents behalf  and VFS agreed waive  the extra hire and 
the refurbishment charges, but not the excess  mileage charge. It also offered to pay for the 
cost of insuring the car for the period between the end of the agreement and the collection.
Mrs P brought a complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  VFS refund the insurance costs of £599.97 and pay Mr L 
£100 compensation. 
Mrs P didnt agree and said she had submitted emails supported her claim that she had 
called VFS and the agent prior to May 2018. She didnt  believe  VFSs claim that it had no 
record of the calls. She added that she had to pay to have the car MOTd. 
Subsequently Mrs P complained that VFS had harassed her father and had sent a letter  
addressed to her late mother  which had caused distress. She sent VFS a bill for storage 
charges. VFS said it was sorry for issuing  the letter, but it hadnt been  informed of the 
passing of Mrs L.
Mrs P said it wasnt her responsibility to arrange for the collection of the car and she 
reiterated that she had made contact with VFS and its agent.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point raised by Mrs P or VFS, its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board, but because I dont think  I need  to comment  on it in order  to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Ref: DRN90391782I would also explain at the outset that Mrs P was not a party to the contract and I cannot 
consider any impact on her, only the signatories  to the agreement.  That means  I cannot  
consider any claim made by her for compensation or for storage  charges. I appreciate  Mrs P 
seems to have been making use of the car even  though it had not been  hired  by her, but that 
does not mean I can ignore the legal position it terms of making my decision. 
It seems  the collection of the car fell through the cracks at VFS and its agent. I have noted 
emails sent by Mrs P to VFS from May 2018 onwards in which  she asserts  that she made  a 
number of calls to both VFS and the agent.  They dont have any record  of these calls and I 
have seen no documentary evidence. However, as VFS has waived all charges that 
accumulated as a result  of the delay  I dont consider that to be key to my decision.
The aim of this service  is to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in 
had the error  not occurred. For Mr L that would mean waiving any hire charges beyond 
November 2017  and covering the incidental costs  of insurance and the MOT. I gather it has 
agreed to all of these save for the MOT.  It has also forgone the refurbishment  charges which  
I consider to be fair.
As for the matter of the excess mileage I cannot see why this should  not be due. The delay 
in collecting the car had no bearing on the mileage done. I asked VFS for the records of the 
mileage at collection and these show it to have been 67,387. The records  also show the 
mileage in May 2018 was 67,387. The MOT  dated 2 February records  the mileage to have 
been 65,882. I note Mrs P disputes that the car was driven in that period, but I dont believe I 
can require VFS to use any other figure  than that recorded at collection.
For the avoidance of doubt in my final decision I have include all the relevant elements of the 
redress including those  agreed by VFS prior to our involvement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
 
waive the extra days hire charge  of £3175.38  from November 2017 onwards
waive the refurbishment charges of £237.60
refund  the insurance costs of £599.97
refund  the MOT costs  upon receipt of an invoice
pay Mr L compensation of £100.
Ref: DRN90391783Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9039178