K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss F says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in January 1997. 
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  per £100 Miss F owed on her store card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month  if Miss F couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain my reasoning  below.
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Fs credit application  form. On it is a section related to PPI where  
Miss F has ticked  to say she wanted the policy. Miss F has signed the form so I think its 
likely to reflect what she wanted.  
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Miss F and I think  thats likely to be right.  So 
it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make  sure it gave
Miss F clear enough information about  the policy to enable her to decide for herself if she 
should take the policy.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even  if FICL  had given her better or clearer  information,  I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have taken  out the policy.  
I say this because  Miss F was eligible for the policy and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. I know she was on maternity leave at the time,  but she was still 
classed as employed, so the policy wouldve been  useful for her if something went wrong.  
Miss F hasnt mentioned any other  means she had of making  her repayments. If Miss F was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness the PPI wouldve paid out until she was able to 
return to work, or until the outstanding balance was cleared  whichever came first. And the 
policy would cover the same term if she was to lose her job. So I think  the policy wouldve 
Ref: DRN98567662been useful to Miss F. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking it.
And overall,  when taking  into account everything Ive seen  and been  told, I dont think  Miss F 
has lost out as a result  of anything FICL did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss F to accept or
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.  
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9856766