K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled  their contents 
insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs Ls home was burgled in September 2018. The stolen items  included a 
substantial amount of jewellery. 
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy because they say AXA is relying  on policy  wording theyve not 
previously seen to decline  their claim for a Rolex watch. Theyre also unhappy with the 
general customer service provided  throughout the claim.
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint here. Our investigator didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the investigators  assessment, so the matter has been  passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA declined Mr and Mrs Ls claim for a Rolex watch because, effectively, it didnt  consider  
Mr and Mrs L had proven ownership  of it. 
Mr and Mrs L say the Rolex was given to Mrs L by her grandfather; and they dont have 
photographs, documentation or other evidence to prove ownership. I recognise that where a 
stolen item was a gift and has been owned for some  time it could be difficult  to provide 
detailed evidence proving ownership. But its my understanding that Mr and Mrs L havent  
provided any evidence  of ownership of the Rolex watch, beyond  what theyve said about  it 
and their assurance Mrs L had one. I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to have  asked 
for more than this  and to have declined  the claim in its absence.  
Mr and Mrs L say AXA is relying on policy wording theyve not previously seen   but I dont  
see this makes a difference here. AXA agreed  to provide cover based  on the terms and 
conditions. The policy was sold to Mr and Mrs L by a broker. And Mr and Mrs L have 
acknowledged receiving  a policy summary  which says they must provide all relevant 
information about a claim  to assist the insurer in validating  it. This isnt unusual   when 
considering a claim for stolen items its normal and reasonable  for the insurer to ask for 
details of the items and for proof  of ownership;  and its the responsibility of the claimant to 
provide this information. So this doesnt change my decision.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about the general customer service  provided 
throughout the claim. AXA has acknowledged  that not everything happened as it should 
have, and its offered  to pay Mr and Mrs L £100  in compensation. I havent seen anything 
that makes me think a higher amount  is warranted.  So Im satisfied that what  AXA has 
already offered to put this right is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN98036852my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9803685