K821x#15complaint
Miss T is unhappy with the late payment markers  Barclays Bank UK Plc has placed  on her 
credit file. She wants these removed.  
background
Miss T has a credit card account with Barclays. In July 2018 she called the bank to ask why 
she was being  chased to make a payment. Miss T said shed made  a payment the week 
before by direct debit.  Barclays explained that this payment had been returned  unpaid. The 
bank and Miss T then talked about  her financial  situation. 
Miss T explained shed  had to pay a very large  bill. I wont go into the details of this to 
protect her privacy.  This large bill had impacted her finances. Miss T told Barclays  she was 
expecting a large lump  sum payment into her business the following month. She would then 
be able to pay a big chunk off her credit card. 
Barclays told Miss T it would freeze her account for 30 days.  She called the bank  again  in 
mid-August, just before this freeze was due to end. Barclays  told Miss T her next payment 
was due the following month. She made this payment a few days after it was due. 
But Miss T wasnt  happy when she found  out that Barclays has reported missed  payments 
on her account - for July and August  to the credit  reference agencies  (CRAs). When  she 
complained, the bank  didnt uphold it. In brief, the bank said when  it spoke to her in July it 
told her late payments would be reported to the CRAs. 
Miss T wasnt  happy with this response. She brought her complaint to us, where it was 
looked at by one of our adjudicators. He thought it was fair to report  a missed payment 
marker for July. But he also thought when Miss T spoke to Barclays in August, the bank 
hadnt made it clear  to her that she needed to make  a payment. The adjudicator  thought 
Barclays should remove the missed payment marker for August and also pay Miss T £150  in 
compensation for the impact  this had on her. 
Miss T accepted the adjudicators view. But Barclays didnt. In summary, it said: the bank 
had provided factual information  to Miss T at every contact point; it had followed this up with 
a letter  confirming the situation; and, the bank clearly told her that if payments continued to 
be missed, these would be reported  to the CRAs. 
As Barclays didnt agree  with our adjudicators view, this complaint has been  passed to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ill explain  why. 
The payment for July was clearly missed.  Theres  no dispute  about it being fair and 
reasonable to report a missed payment marker for this. The direct debit for this payment had 
been returned unpaid before Miss T had any discussions at all with Barclays about  her 
situation. Miss T accepts  this. 
Ref: DRN91898342So Ill now turn to what I think is the crux of this complaint: did Barclays make it clear to 
Miss T that it would report a missed payment to the CRAs if the August payment wasnt 
made? I dont think it did. 
Ive listened to the call Miss T made to Barclays in July 2018. She explained that shed had 
to pay a very large bill. This was having a temporary impact  on her financial situation  and 
she couldnt make her July payment there and then. Barclays was very sympathetic  to her 
circumstances. It agreed to freeze her account  for 30 days  until 17 August 2018.  
Barclays told Miss T all she needed to do was to give the bank a call around  15 or 16 August 
to discuss her situation. It said that it could then take her account off hold and reintroduce 
her 0% balance transfer rate. Barclays also told Miss T she would continue to get letters and 
statements which it was legally obliged to send, but that her balance  wouldnt increase. 
The bank went on to tell Miss T that any further missed payments could result in her account 
being closed.  It told her that this would mean she would still have an outstanding balance, 
but she wouldnt be able to use her card and if she couldnt make the minimum payments a 
missed payment marker  would be registered  on her credit file. 
While I accept Barclays told Miss T missed payment markers would be registered, this has 
to be seen in the wider  context of the whole call. I think Miss T could  easily have thought a 
marker would  only be registered if she missed  payments once the freeze had been removed 
from her account, especially as almost immediately,  the bank tells her this one payment 
shouldnt impact her credit file by much as she has such a fantastic payment history.  
This confusion is reinforced towards  the end of the call when Barclays  mentions the direct 
debit set up on Miss Ts account. The bank says that it was due to try and collect  the August 
payment of £548.58  by direct debit on 6 August 2018. Barclays asked  Miss T if she wanted 
the direct  debit kept on the account or did she want it cancelled. She asked for it to be 
cancelled. 
The bank didnt  mention at all that she would need  to make the payment by some  other  
method, or warn her that if no payment was received, a missed payment marker  would be 
recorded. After listening  to the whole  call, I think it would have been  reasonable for Miss T to 
think that her whole account,  including the need to make payments, had been frozen for 
30 days  even if this wasnt actually Barclays position. 
I can see that Barclays wrote to Miss T the same  day that this call took place. I accept this 
letter says Barclays need to update the CRAs. But again, this needs to be seen in the 
context of the full letter  together with the July telephone call and the call the following month.  
Ill now turn to that August  call. Miss T called Barclays   as instructed  just before the 
freeze was due to end. This was around a week after her August payment was due. Ive 
borne in mind  Barclays had already  cancelled  the direct debit that was going to try and 
collect the August  payment and, as above, it hadnt told Miss T she needed to pay this in 
some other way. 
Miss T explained why shed called. Barclays told her the account was still frozen and that 
she could disregard any reminder  letters she might  have received. Im satisfied this would 
have again given Miss T the impression that no payments were needed during this time. 
Ref: DRN91898343Miss T then asked Barclays when her next payment was due. The bank told her £848.54 
was due on 10 September  2018. Miss T expressed her surprise the payment  was so high. 
Barclays explained that this amount was to cover both August  and September.  The bank 
didnt mention at all that the August payment had been missed  and was now overdue.  
I think it would have  been fair and reasonable for Barclays to have told Miss T here that she 
needed to pay the August payment of £548.58  immediately.  But it didnt. As above, it told her 
the next payment was due the following month,  and this was to cover  both August  and 
September. Again, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Miss T to think  no payment was due in 
August as her account had been frozen. 
I can see that the bank  told Miss T that if a payment isnt done by Friday  17 August 2018,  
all the interest and fees will be reapplied. Miss T said she didnt understand, and asked  what 
was happening.  Barclays explained that the account  freeze  would end and it would expect a 
payment on the account. Its clear to me that Miss T didnt clearly understand what was 
going on or what she needed to do. Im satisfied it was reasonable for Miss T think  her next 
payment was due in September and this would include  the payment that was due for August. 
Ive looked at the letter Barclays sent to Miss T on 17 August 2018. Again, I accept it 
mentions that her credit file could  be affected.  But once more, Ive looked at this letter  in 
conjunction with what the bank also told Miss T over the phone. It told her she could 
disregard any arrears letters or reminder  letters  and Im satisfied that its reasonable for 
Miss T to think this letter  fell into that category. 
Also Barclays had told Miss T just a few days earlier that her next payment wasnt  due till 
September. If Barclays expected Miss T to have made a payment for August, I think  it would 
have been fair and reasonable for it to have made  this clear to Miss T. But it didnt.  
Having listened  to both calls and looked  at the letters  and statements Barclays  sent to 
Miss T, Im satisfied that the bank  didnt make it clear to her that she needed to make  the 
August payment, as it was overdue, or that not doing this would affect  her credit file. 
Also, Im satisfied that if Miss T had been  clearly told that she needed to pay £548.58 in 
August to avoid a late payment marker,  she would have made  arrangements  to do this. I say 
this because its clear to me, as Miss T explained  to Barclays,  she was experiencing only a 
short term problem with her finances.  
When Miss T was told how much she needed to pay in September, after being  initially  
shocked by the amount due, she told Barclays shed find the money  and she did. On 
balance, given Miss Ts situation, I think if she had been told she needed to make a payment 
in August, she would  also have  been  able to find the money. 
Taking all the above into account, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to 
report a missed payment  for August 2018 on Miss Ts credit card account. The bank should  
arrange for this to be removed. 
I also think a payment of £150, to compensate Miss T for the trouble and upset  shes  
experienced, is proportionate to the situation  here. 
 
Ref: DRN91898344my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc should arrange for the missed payment  
marker for August 2018 to be removed from Miss Ts credit file, and pay her £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset  shes  been  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9189834