K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about Covea Insurance  plcs (Covea)  handling of a claim 
they made following an escape  of water at their property.
background
I issued a provisional decision in February  2020 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background 
There are several businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf of 
Covea. For ease of reference, Ill refer only to Covea by name in this decision,  even 
when referring to the actions of its agents or representatives.
There is extensive background to this complaint which I wont  repeat in full detail 
here. But I have considered the full timeline  of events when coming  to my decision.
Both Mr and Mrs R are named  policy  holders on the insurance policy provided by 
Covea  so any claim  or complaint is brought by them both. But because  most of the 
information about the complaint has been given by Mr R, Ill refer only to him from 
here onward.
Mr R suffered an escape of water  at his property in January 2016, which caused 
significant damage. So, he raised  a claim with his home insurance  provider   Covea. 
Covea instructed a loss adjuster to visit the property and assess  the claim. It was 
confirmed that a valid claim had arisen, and that alternative accommodation would be 
required due to the extent of the damage.
Mr R wanted alternative  accommodation to be arranged before April 2016  so as not 
to impact his daughters  education. Due to difficulties obtaining a suitable  property by 
April 2016, works and alternative  accommodation  were placed on hold at Mr Rs 
request. Covea paid Mr R a cash amount to cover  alternative accommodation in May 
2016, as he wanted to arrange it himself. Mr R and his family moved into alternative 
accommodation in July 2016. Drying  was completed by November 2016, and repairs 
were completed by January 2017,  aside  from some snagging issues. 
During the stripping out and drying works, a secondary leak was discovered in the 
downstairs shower  room.  As this leak was unrelated to the first, a second  claim was 
opened, but both were  dealt with concurrently  by Covea  and its agents.
Ref: DRN99342572Once Mr R and his family had returned to the property, another leak was discovered  
from an upstairs shower. Mr R said this was caused by the poor work of Coveas 
contractor. Covea investigated this, which involved opening up the ceiling  beneath 
the shower room.  It was established that the cause of the leak was the poor 
installation of a shower  seat  which Mr R had installed himself. Covea advised  it 
would only cover the trace and access costs of this claim if Mr R raised a third claim. 
But it also advised that the costs  of repairing the ceiling and an item of contents 
damaged by this leak would  likely fall within the excess of a third claim. So, Mr R 
didnt go ahead with a third claim.
 
Covea assessed  the claim for damaged contents and the snagging  issues, and paid 
Mr R a final cash settlement. Mr R remained  unhappy as he felt several  items  of 
damaged contents  had been overlooked by Covea. He was also unhappy with the 
length of time his claim took to resolve and the impact it had on his family. Mr R also 
felt that all of the damage should have  been covered under one claim. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Rs complaint. She thought  Covea was right 
to open more than one claim  as there  had been several escapes of water  which  were 
not connected. She said Covea had included costs for the repair, or replacement, of 
the items  covered under the contents insurance   which it agreed had been  
damaged by the escapes of water. She said Covea didnt agree that all the contents 
were damaged by water. And she didnt think Mr R had provided any persuasive 
evidence to contradict  Coveas  arguments. Our investigator agreed  that the claim 
had taken a long time to resolve.  But she didnt  think  this was the fault of Covea. So, 
she didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fact that Mr R has suffered at least one insured event,  covered by his policy, isnt 
in dispute. What remains for me to decide  is whether Covea  has settled the claim(s)  
fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy.
Mr R has complained about several  aspects of Coveas settlement. For ease of 
reference, Ill address  them separately.  
multiple claims
Mr R believes  that there  should  only be one claim. He says the claim was treated as 
one leak and one claim from the start. So, he doesnt agree that its fair for Covea  to 
treat it as two claims now, when  he hasnt agreed  to more than one claim.
Ref: DRN99342573From what  Ive seen Covea were alert to the fact that there might have been the 
need to open a second claim fairly early on. But it rightly needed  to establish that 
there had been  a second leak which was unrelated to the first, before it could make  
this decision. The evidence Ive seen supports that the leak in the downstairs shower 
was separate  to the initial leak from the kitchen appliance. So, I think it was fair for 
Covea to open a second claim and charge a second  excess.
There was a third leak discovered  from the upstairs shower  room  toward the end of 
the repairs. Covea  investigated this, which involved intrusive trace  and access  to 
both the bathroom and a ceiling beneath it. Covea  says the leak was caused 
because incorrect fittings were used to secure a shower seat  which was installed 
by Mr R. Covea says it repaired  the trace and access damage in the bathroom  as a 
gesture of goodwill. But it says it wont cover  the damage to the ceiling as it isnt 
related to a valid claim. It says the cost of repairing the ceiling and replacing a jacket,  
damaged by this leak, would  fall short of the excess if another  claim were raised.
Mr R feels strongly  that the shower fittings werent  the only cause of the leak. He 
says the shower  hadnt been  properly sealed  when they first moved in. And when it 
was, the leak improved dramatically.
 
As the evidence on this point is contradictory,  I need  to make a decision on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely to have happened,  
based on the available evidence. While I appreciate the points Mr R has made here,  I 
cant ignore that he is not a professional bathroom fitter, whereas the contractor 
instructed by Covea  is. I know that Mr R carried out some of the fitting himself. And 
Covea says the incorrect fittings  were  used. So, on balance, I think  this is more likely 
to be the cause of the leak, than work carried out by a professional.
I note that Coveas contractor did cover  the cost of returning the bathroom to a 
useable position  following  its investigation,  as a gesture  of goodwill. But as I believe 
the leak was more likely caused by Mr R, I dont think Coveas decision not to cover 
all the resultant damage is unreasonable. So, I dont think Covea needs to cover the 
cost of repairing  the ceiling or the damaged jacket.
delays and alternative accommodation
Mr R is unhappy with the length of time his claims took to resolve  and the impact this 
had on his family. He says he asked for alternative  accommodation to be sorted 
before April 2016 so it wouldnt impact  his daughters revision. Covea didnt arrange 
this, which  is why he elected to stay put until July 2016. Mr R also argues that the 
drying could have been completed while he was in the property.  He says the fact that 
it wasnt has caused delays and frustration.
Covea doesnt  agree that it caused any delay. It says it couldnt immediately arrange 
alternative accommodation but was making every  effort to do so. It says it was Mr R 
who requested repairs  be put on hold and that he wanted to arrange his own 
alternative accommodation. Covea says contents  needed to be removed and strip 
out works  completed  prior to drying  commencing.  So, as Mr R had requested works 
be put on hold,  it needed to wait for Mr R and his family to vacate before 
commencing with the drying  which  they didnt do until July 2016.
Ref: DRN99342574Covea says it had difficulty  making  appointments with Mr R as he often worked 
abroad. It says this, and Mr Rs request  to hold repairs in early 2016,  are the primary 
reasons the claim  took as long as it did to resolve.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think Covea has unduly  delayed matters in this case. I 
appreciate it wasnt able to arrange  alternative accommodation by 1 April 2016 as 
Mr R had requested. But from what Ive seen, it tried to work with Mr R to arrange 
alternative accommodation. And it subsequently arranged a negotiated cash  amount, 
at Mr Rs request, so that he could arrange somewhere himself. It was ultimately  
Mr Rs decision  to put matters on hold. So, although I can understand why he did so, 
I dont think it would  be fair to hold Covea responsible for the delays this caused.
I can see there were some snagging issues after the initial works,  and that meetings 
needed to be arranged to review these  before they could be corrected. But I think  
some snagging  issues  are to be expected when repairs of this nature are completed, 
and I can see that Covea did fix these. It also appears Covea is correct to say that it 
had some difficulty contacting Mr R and/or arranging appointments on several 
occasions, which will have contributed to the length  of time the claim took to resolve.
Overall, although the claim did take a long time to resolve, I dont  think  Covea caused 
any unnecessary or unreasonable delays.  So, I dont think  it needs to pay any 
compensation for this.
contents
Mr R is unhappy with the settlement Covea has paid for damage to his contents. He 
says several items were damaged by either  the escape of water,  or by inappropriate 
storage during repairs. Covea has paid a cash settlement to cover  the items  it 
believes were damaged. But Mr R says he didnt agree to most  of the amounts 
Covea paid him, and that many of the amounts arent sufficient to replace the 
damaged items.
Mr R made  claims  for the replacement of certain  damaged appliances. Covea paid 
less than the amounts Mr R claimed  for some of these. When it did this, it explained  
and demonstrated  to Mr R that a like for like replacement  could be sourced for the 
lower price.  So, I think the approach it took for these items was fair.
Covea instructed two firms of experts to assess the reported damage to Mr Rs 
contents. It says that one of the inspectors was ejected from the property by Mrs R 
before they could  complete their report. But the second produced a report  on the 
damaged items. Covea  says it based  its cash settlement on this report.
The report  found  that several of the items Mr R had claimed for hadnt  been 
damaged by water, so they werent  included in the settlement. It also found  that other 
items were repairable, so the amount allowed for in settlement was equal to the 
repair and/or  cleaning cost, rather than the cost to replace. These items were:
Coffee table
Dining  table
Storage units
Electric sofa
Fish tank base
Ref: DRN99342575Selection of rugs
I think the approach  Covea took here was fair. It relied on the professional  opinion  of 
a suitably qualified  expert and made payments in line with his recommendations. So, 
I dont think it needs to pay anything more toward these items.
There are, however, some elements of the contents settlement which  I feel I need to 
address separately:
Blinds 
Mr R says his blinds were damaged by Coveas contractor storing them 
inappropriately. He says Covea agreed to cover this but has only paid for the set 
from the front of his house.  Covea  says the rear blinds  werent  damaged as a result 
of the escape  of water which is why they werent  replaced. 
Ive thought carefully about the arguments from both sides  here. I havent seen any 
photos of the damaged blinds, or anything to support Mr Rs assertion that these 
were damaged by Coveas contractor. And Covea  seems to suggest  it only replaced 
blinds that had been damaged by the escape of water. In the absence of any 
additional evidence,  I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Covea to make  any 
further payment  toward replacement blinds.
Chandeliers
Mr R says that several chandeliers were damaged by Coveas contractor. Exact 
match chandeliers  could not be sourced, so Covea  paid Mr R £75 per chandelier as 
a cash settlement  based on the online retail  price of what, it says, were similar 
quality chandeliers. Mr R isnt happy with this amount. Hes provided links for what he 
says are similar quality chandeliers, valued  at around £375 per chandelier.
Our service is not an expert in valuing items of contents. So, when assessing 
complaints about  damaged items, we often rely on the opinion of suitably  qualified  
experts. In this case, Coveas appointed surveyor inspected the chandeliers and 
suggested the £75 figure  based  on his view of what similar quality was. I appreciate 
Mr R disagrees.  But on balance, I find the opinion of a qualified surveyor more 
persuasive. So, I dont  think Covea needs  to increase its settlement for the 
chandeliers.
Cooker hood
Mr R says a fluorescent  light tube was damaged on his cooker hood. Covea paid £75 
toward the replacement  for this. But Mr R says his electrician found an issue with the 
electrical board and advised it was more  economical to replace the entire unit, rather  
than repair  it. Mr R has provided an invoice  for the replacement  and would like Covea 
to reimburse him.
Ive considered the invoices Mr R has provided on this point. But I cant see from 
these that it was necessary for the cooker  hood to be replaced. I also havent seen 
that Covea were given  the opportunity to review or inspect the unit first, before it was 
replaced. So, in these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to expect it to pay 
more than the £75 it has paid already.
Ref: DRN99342576Kitchen worktop
Mr R says he paid for a kitchen worktop  on the understanding that Covea would 
reimburse him. Covea  says its contractor carried out some  non-insurance related 
work to Mr Rs kitchen in lieu of this payment.  Mr R says this isnt true.
I havent seen  anything in the complaint  file which supports what Covea has said 
here. Theres nothing  to suggest what  works its contractor allegedly carried  or to 
support that this agreement was made.
From the notes Ive seen,  it appears Coveas contractor declined Mr Rs request to 
carry out any private works so as not to complicate the project. So, based on the 
evidence currently available, Im minded  to uphold this element of Mr Rs complaint.  
Providing Mr R can evidence the amount he spent on the worktop, I think  it would be 
fair for Covea to reimburse  him.
Piano
Mr R has complained that his piano was damaged by the escape of the water.  Covea 
had this inspected  by its expert and says they didnt identify  any damage. But from 
what Ive seen, the experts suggested that although  there was no physical damage,  
humidity created  during the drying  could  have caused issues  with the sound quality. 
They suggested a further report should be carried  out.
Mr R has been consistent in claiming that the sound  quality of the piano  has been  
affected. And from what Ive seen,  Covea hasnt had this potential element of 
damage inspected,  despite the advice from the expert report. So, I think  Covea 
should pay for the piano to be inspected, for humidity related sound  damage, by a 
suitably qualified expert. If damage is discovered,  Covea should  consider this as part 
of Mr Rs claim and settle it in line with the terms and conditions  of his policy.
In summary,  I think it was fair and reasonable for Covea  to rely on the expert opinion 
it obtained, and exclude items deemed  not to have been damaged  by the escape  of 
water. I also think it was fair for it to reduce the settlement amounts claimed  for 
replacement where  items  were deemed to be repairable. But I think  Covea needs to 
do more to fairly settle the issues reported  with the piano and kitchen worktop.
I said I was intending  to direct Covea  to reimburse  Mr and Mrs R the amount they spent on 
the kitchen worktop  and pay interest  on that amount from the date they spent the money  
until the date of settlement. I also thought Covea should pay for an independent expert  to 
assess whether the sound quality of Mr and Mrs Rs piano has been damaged by exposure 
to humidity as a result  of the escape  of water  and the subsequent drying. If this report  were 
to establish the piano  has suffered  humidity related sound damage, I said Covea should 
consider this as part of Mr and Mrs Rs claim and settle it in line with the terms and 
conditions of their policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they might want  me 
to consider before I reached  a final decision.
Neither side agreed with my provisional decision, and both provided further arguments for 
me to consider. To summarise, Covea said:
Ref: DRN99342577Some of the issues  covered  in my provisional  decision werent  part of Mr and Mrs Rs 
initial complaint, so it hasnt had the opportunity to look into them.
Mr and Mrs R only reported physical damage to the piano, not sound damage.
Presumably they have  since had the piano retuned,  so it doesnt see what benefit a 
report will be at this late stage.
Its contractor  has advised that it carried out uninsured work for Mr R in lieu of 
payment for the kitchen worktop.
It also provided a large number  of new emails, primarily between the loss adjuster  
and Mr and Mrs R  most of which I hadnt  seen before.
And to summarise, Mr and Mrs R said:
The loss adjuster appointed an agent to find an alternative property.  It is due to 
issues with this agent that a suitable property couldnt be found before April 2016.
It is incorrect to say the second claim was discovered during strip out works as the 
claim was opened during  May 2016  when no works had started.
Their property was dry in September 2016, but works didnt commence until 
November 2016  which shows there  were  delays.
The third leak happened  after all works were completed and was a sequence of 
events caused  by poor workmanship.  There were two initial leaks  (one of which  
damaged his jacket)  which were  corrected by the builder. The builder disputed the 
third leak,  which is the one Covea suggests was caused by installation  of the shower  
seat.
 
Its incorrect to say that Mr R working  away caused delays as Mrs R was always 
available and is a joint policy holder.
The expert they appointed to fix the cooker hood identified  that the lightbulb  issue 
was linked to the circuit board and that the whole unit needed replacing. They feel I 
havent placed enough weight on their experts findings.
They also provided photos of their damaged  blinds and asked I reconsider my finding  
on this issue.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, as well as the new evidence sent in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
Both sides have put forward  several points for me to consider. For clarity, Ill address them 
separately. 
Ref: DRN99342578response from Covea
In its response Covea said some of the issues covered in my provisional decision  werent 
part of Mr and Mrs Rs initial complaint. But I have since spoken with Covea, and it has 
accepted that all of the issues do form part of this complaint. So, I dont  need  to make a 
finding on this point.
Covea has reiterated  that its contractor says it did some uninsured work for Mr and Mrs R 
which Covea paid for in lieu of the worktop. I considered this argument in my provisional 
decision and stated  that I hadnt seen  any evidence to support that this was the case. In fact, 
contemporaneous evidence I had seen suggested  that the contractor refused to carry out 
any uninsured  work for Mr and Mrs R.
Covea has since provided a significant amount of additional evidence. Part of this additional  
information seems to show that the contractor agreed to carry out some uninsured work for 
Mr and Mrs R, which contradicts  my provisional finding that the contractor  refused all 
uninsured work. But I still havent seen any evidence to support that there  was an agreement  
for works to be carried out in lieu of payment for the kitchen worktop.  And Covea has 
confirmed that it cant  find anything more to support that there  was such an agreement.
Mr and Mrs R havent been  able to provide a paid invoice for the kitchen worktop, and they 
say they cant now get one from the supplier due to social distancing/self-isolation because 
of the current coronavirus  outbreak. But I have seen emails,  from the loss adjuster to the 
contractor, which confirm  that the worktop was purchased by Mr and Mrs R, and that they 
should be reimbursed  up to £312 by the contractor. Ive also seen other  emails  from the 
contractor stating the supply and fitting of the worktop was priced at around £364.
 
There are also emails  from Mrs R advising the contractor/loss adjuster that the worktop was 
ready to be collected  from the supplier in November  2016. And a handwritten quote for the 
worktop at £270  total. Mr R has also provided a more recent  quote,  from the same  supplier, 
for the same worktop which is also priced  at around  £270.
 
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R purchased  the worktop 
themselves for at least  £270. I havent  seen enough  to persuade  me that there was an 
agreement for the contractor to complete uninsured  works in place of reimbursing this 
amount. So, I think Covea should  refund this amount plus 8% simple interest. As the exact  
date of purchase cant be verified, interest should be paid from January 2017 onward  as 
the worktop was definitely fitted by then. 
In terms of the piano, Covea states  that Mr and Mrs R only ever reported physical damage 
not sound damage. It also says that due to the time that has passed,  an inspection  is 
unlikely to be of any benefit as Mr and Mrs R will have had the piano retuned/repaired.
Ive thought carefully about both of these points. From what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs R did 
report concerns about the sound quality of the piano. I say this because a loss adjuster 
report from August 2016 states they reported  the piano was playing out of tune. So, I dont 
think Covea is correct  to say that they only reported physical damage.
Ref: DRN99342579The reports  that Covea  commissioned also suggested that the sound quality may have been 
impaired and suggested further  inspections   which Covea  didnt  follow up on. So, I dont 
think Covea did all it should  have  done  to investigate the reported issues with the piano at 
the time.
Ive checked with Mr and Mrs R and they have  advised they have not carried out any repairs 
to the piano since the escape of water.  So, I stand  by my provisional  decision. I think  Covea 
should pay for an independent inspection of the piano. And if the results  of the inspection 
support that the sound quality is compromised  due to water and/or humidity related sound 
damage from the insured event, Covea should consider this as part of Mr and Mrs Rs claim 
and settle it in line with the terms and conditions of their policy.
Due to the coronavirus  outbreak and implementation of social distancing/lockdown,  this 
report wont be able to be completed immediately  which  is understandable. But it should 
be completed in good  time, as soon as reasonably  possible. So, the report should be 
completed within two months of the end of social distancing.
response from Mr and Mrs R
alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs R have reiterated  that they asked  to be put into alternative accommodation 
before April 2016. They say the loss adjuster appointed an agent  to find an alternative 
property, but due to issues  with this agent  a suitable property couldnt be found before 
April 2016.
I considered this when  reaching my provisional decision. I can see that Mr and Mrs R did 
request to be moved before  April 2016 and I can see this didnt happen. But from what Ive 
seen, Covea did start the process of attempting  to locate a suitable  property.  It also seems 
there were ongoing conversations  about  the reasonable  costs  for a suitable  alternative. 
Ultimately it proved difficult to source a suitable  property  in that amount of time, and 
Mr and Mrs R decided not to move until July 2016. 
Its unfortunate that a suitable  property  couldnt  be sourced as quickly  as Mr and Mrs R 
would have liked. But I dont think this was as a result of anything  Covea did wrong. And 
although I understand why they decided not to move  out until July 2016,  I dont  think it would 
be fair to hold Covea  responsible for the delays this caused.
second claim
Mr and Mrs R say I was incorrect  to suggest that the second  claim was discovered during 
strip out works, because this claim was opened during May 2016  when  works  hadnt yet 
started.
I can see from a letter  Mr and Mrs R were sent in 2017, that they are right to say that the 
second claim was dated May 2016.  But this date appears to have been chosen 
retrospectively. I say this because the contact notes Ive seen between  Covea  and the loss 
adjuster show the second claim wasnt set up until January 2017, once all the works had 
been completed. And it was at this point that Covea wrote to Mr and Mrs R to confirm  the 
second claim.
Ref: DRN993425710Mr and Mrs R have said they were  told both issues would be dealt with as one claim.  And 
they have provided  an early draft of the repair schedule which does include all of the repairs 
under one claim. They say if they had been told there would be two claims, they would have 
chosen to complete the repairs caused by the second leak themselves.
In my provisional decision I said the second leak was in a ground floor shower room. This 
was based on a report from the loss adjuster in March 2016, and contact notes between 
Covea and the loss adjuster in April 2016, which both said the shower room  was on the 
ground floor. But its apparent from the repair schedule,  and further emails  Ive now received,  
that the shower room was on the first floor.
Covea, and its loss adjuster,  have stated that Mr and Mrs R were made aware that two leaks  
would mean  two claims and that they would  be charged two excess fees. It says there were 
clear discussions  where  it was explained  that, for simplicity only,  the works  would  be 
combined into one schedule. It says the contractor on site has confirmed his recollections of 
these discussions.
Covea has now provided an email sent to Mr R in February 2016 which states  that there 
were two suspected  leaks. But I still havent  seen anything to support that Mr and Mrs R 
were told there would be two separate claims or two separate  excess  fees. I accept that 
Covea may have produced one combined  schedule for simplicity. But I would still have 
expected it to have written  to Mr and Mrs R to confirm that there were two claims  much 
sooner than it did. 
The loss adjuster had suggested  that stripping out and drying needed to be completed  
before it could be confirmed there were two leaks, which is why the second claim wasnt 
opened until much  later. But Mr R has argued that it was always  clear there were two leaks. 
He says the downstairs leak cant possibly have caused damage to the first floor  which is 
logical. 
Ultimately, I cant  be certain whether or not Mr and Mrs R were  told that there  would be two 
claims until after the works had already been completed.  So, Ive thought  about what  this 
should mean for their complaint.
Mr R says he wouldnt have gone  ahead with the second claim if it been  brought to his 
attention at the time. Instead he says he wouldve carried out the first-floor works himself. 
Ive though carefully about this. I note that the first-floor damage was priced at a significantly 
lower amount than the ground  floor  on the schedule  of works Mr R was provided. But it 
was still valued  at several thousand pounds and ultimately cost over £6,000. So, in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can fairly conclude that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have raised a 
second claim. And its important to note that they have  had the benefit  of two claims, by 
having the repairs completed. So, I dont think it would be fair to direct Covea to record  this 
as one claim. 
But, in the particular circumstances here, I think it would  be fair for Covea to refund 
Mr and Mrs R the second  excess  fee of £400. This is because  I cant be sure whether or not 
they were made aware of the second claim, and that they would be charged two excesses, 
before works were completed. So, I think this is a fair compromise. 
I have made  Covea aware of this change to my provisional findings and addressed its 
responses as part of my above findings.
Ref: DRN993425711delays commencing work
Mr and Mrs R have said their property was dry by 19 September  2016, but works didnt 
commence until November 2016   which shows there were delays. Theyve said due to this, 
works were rushed to be completed  in December 2016, which is why there were so many 
issues with the quality of the works.
From what  Ive seen, it does appear  that repairs after drying didnt get underway straight 
away. Although I have seen an email  from the loss adjuster to Covea suggesting they had 
started by 25 October 2016, and a formal  report stating  they were  well underway by 
8 November 2016.
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs R wouldve wanted  works to start immediately after the 
drying, to minimise the disruption to their life. But I also need  to consider that they were  in 
alternative accommodation and that the works (aside from snagging) were completed on 
schedule. Ive also seen  that there were some site visits in October 2016, so although the 
reinstatement works  might not have started,  I think the claim was progressing.
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Rs concerns that the works  were rushed in 
December 2016,  causing lots of snagging issues. But from what Ive seen Mr and Mrs R sent 
an email to the loss adjusters surveyor in December  2016 raising concerns that the works 
were progressing slowly. This seems to contradict their more  recent  testimony that the works  
were rushed.
As I stated in my provisional decision,  I think some snagging issues  are to be expected when 
works of this nature are carried out. And aside  from Mr and Mrs Rs more  recent  testimony, I 
havent seen anything from the time which supports that the repair  works were  rushed. 
Mr and Mrs R have also said its incorrect to say that Mr R working  away  caused delays. 
They say Mrs R was always available and is a joint policy holder.
From what  Ive seen, Covea was made aware  that Mrs R had some  health concerns and 
that she was having  difficulties coping with the stress of the claim.  Ive also seen  that Mr R 
advised Covea  that contact should go through him where possible as Mrs R shouldnt be 
involved. So, in these circumstances, I think it was reasonable that Covea  were  only 
attempting to contact  Mr R at this point in the claim. And, as Ive said, there were situations 
where Covea encountered difficulty and delays in being able to contact Mr R.
Im not suggesting this was the sole reason the claim took the length of time that it did. But I 
think it did have an impact. And ultimately,  while the claim  did take several months  to 
resolve, I dont think that Covea caused any avoidable, unreasonable delays.
upstairs shower leak
Mr and Mrs R have said the third leak happened  after all works were  completed and was a 
sequence of events caused  by poor workmanship. They say there were two initial  leaks (one 
of which  damaged Mr Rs jacket) which were corrected by the builder. They say the builder 
only disputed the third leak, which is the one Covea suggests was caused by installation of 
the shower seat.
Ref: DRN993425712I can see that Mr R reported a leak with the upstairs  shower as early  as December 2016, 
and it was at this point that his jacket was damaged. Hes argued that this was before the 
shower seat was fitted. So, he says it was the poor work of Coveas contractor which caused 
this leak and damaged his jacket.
Ive seen emails from the contractors around  this time which say they suspected  an issue 
with the waste  and wanted to carry our intrusive investigations. But Covea  says Mr R 
wouldnt allow them  access  to investigate at this stage. In contrast, Mr R says Coveas 
contractor re-sealed the shower when they came to investigate and that this drastically 
improved the leak.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the further,  intrusive investigations took place  at this 
stage. But it seems from Mr and Mrs Rs lack of continued communication about this issue,  
that any obvious leak was dealt with by the contractor at the time. Based on this, it seems to 
me that the damage caused to Mr Rs jacket was most likely caused  by the contractor who 
carried out the initial repairs to this room.  I say this because it occurred so shortly after 
Mr and Mrs R returned to the property, and before the shower seat was apparently fitted. If 
this wasnt the case, I think its likely Coveas contractor wouldve highlighted the shower  
seat at this point,  rather than several  months later when the shower leaked again.
I made  Covea aware of this change to my provisional findings and have given it the chance 
to provide further comments. In response,  Covea provided an email  from November 2016 
which states that Mr R and Mrs R had their own plumber on site that month, to fit a water 
softener. The email says this plumber caused a leak over the kitchen, but that it was 
immediately rectified and caused no damage.
Ive thought about the fact that Mr R and Mrs R had their own contractor on site around a 
month before the leak that damaged Mr Rs jacket,  and whether this should affect my view 
that the leak which damaged the jacket was most  likely caused Coveas contractor. But from 
what Ive seen theres been  no suggestion that the earlier leak caused any damage.  And it 
appears the two leaks affected different areas  of the house  the hallway and the kitchen. 
So, this doesnt  change my decision.
As the damage  to Mr Rs jacket  was most likely  caused by Coveas contractor, Covea should 
replace Mr Rs damaged  jacket, or meet  the cost of doing  so. 
But I dont think Covea  needs to cover the trace and access  damage  made  later in 2017  
when investigating  a further leak. I say this because I think this leak was most likely  caused 
by Mr Rs incorrect fitting of the shower seat. Covea  did offer to cover this if Mr and Mrs R 
made a third claim,  which  seems reasonable. However, Mr and Mrs R have chosen not to do 
so, as the likely cost of this would be less than the excess  which  would be payable. 
Ref: DRN993425713cooker hood
Mr R and Mrs R say the expert they appointed  found that the entire  cooker hood needed 
replacing because  of an issue with the electrical board. 
I considered this argument in my provisional  decision. I explained that I hadnt  seen any 
persuasive evidence  from this expert,  such as a report on the issue, to support that this was 
the case. I have  only seen  an invoice  for the work  that was completed.  So based  on the 
available evidence, Im still not persuaded that it would be fair to direct Covea to pay for the 
replacement cooker  hood.
damaged blinds
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs R have provided  photos of the way their 
blinds were stored, and of the damage to them. I forwarded these to Covea  and asked for its 
comments. 
Covea has provided  emails from the time which state that Mrs R took the blinds down 
herself, despite them not having suffered any damage as a result of the escape  of water. A 
separate email  from the loss adjuster to Mr R in December 2016  suggests that the contractor 
was advised the blinds  would not be being  reused   which is why they didnt make any 
special storage requirements.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Covea to 
pay for any further replacement blinds.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  in part. 
Covea Insurance  plc must:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs R £270  for the kitchen worktop.
Pay interest on this amount  at 8% simple  per year, from January 2017 until the date 
of settlement.
Reimburse the excess charged  on the second claim.
 
Replace Mr Rs damaged jacket or meet the cost of doing so.
Pay for an independent expert to assess whether the sound  quality  of Mr and Mrs Rs 
piano has been damaged  by exposure to humidity as a result of the escape  of water 
and the subsequent drying. This report should  be completed within two months of the 
end of social distancing. If this report establishes the piano has suffered humidity 
related sound  damage, due to the insured event,  Covea  should consider this as part 
of Mr and Mrs Rs claim and settle it in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN993425714Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9934257