K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to inform her in time that her 
claims for the vet treatment of her dog under  her pet policy  wouldnt be paid.
background
Mrs C had an annual pet policy,  which began each year on 26 January for her dog. It 
provided a total of £8,000  cover per condition provided the policy was renewed  each  year.
Mrs Cs dog first developed a mast cell tumour in June 2017 when she was only aged three  
years old. She was operated on to remove the lumps being on a toe and some lymph 
glands. And then was treated with chemotherapy.  Sadly, in December  2017  and 
January 2018,  a further tumour was discovered  on her shoulder  and she was again  operated  
on and received chemotherapy.  
In the middle of this second bout of treatment, UKI said the limit of £8,000  had been reached  
and it wouldnt pay anything further  towards  Mrs Cs claim for this treatment for her dog.
Mrs C complained and said UKI should have told her sooner that she was reaching her limit, 
as she most  probably would not have continued  with treatment for her dog. Its lack of 
information and confusion has left her with vet bills totalling £7,094.96, which she couldnt 
afford, and for which she had to take out a loan, which has put her in financial  difficulties.  
And very sadly, her dog had to be put to sleep in any event.
Whilst UKI agreed its service  to Mrs C could have been better  and it offered to pay some  
chemotherapy costs  and compensation of £150,  it didnt  think it could have done more. 
Mrs C remained  dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. Ultimately,  the investigator  
didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should  be upheld. Mrs C didnt agree so her complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I also understand and appreciate that Mrs C will be deeply disappointed with my decision.  
There are several issues, which Ill deal with in turn.
First, most pet insurance policies, this one included, provide  cover  for the vet fees incurred, 
provided the claim circumstances meets the policy conditions. So consideration of the claim 
happens when  the claim is made rather than before the policyholder decides what  treatment 
their pet needs.  
There are also several different types of policies available such as ones that provide lifetime  
cover for the whole life of the pet, which usually has a claim limit for all claims per year, such 
limit starting again in the next policy limit. Ones  that only cover a condition up to the policy  
limit for 365 days and ones like Mrs Cs which is an annual policy and provided its renewed 
provides her with cover  of £8,000 vet fees per condition. 
Ref: DRN97965322Further, this policy was sold to Mrs C on a non-advised basis,  which  means UKI had no duty 
to advise Mrs C whether this policy was suited for her needs, its only duty is to ensure  its 
policy conditions and policy limits  were clear. 
I consider this policy does  clearly  lay out what the cover is and what  limitations there are on 
the cover  available. It very specifically says the cover is provided per condition in the policy 
summary, the subsequent detailed policy conditions, So although I appreciate  Mrs C thought 
the policy provided £8,000 cover on an annual basis, I dont consider the policy wording to 
be less than clear on the matter. Further,  in the call recording of 31 May 2017, when Mrs C 
first registered her claim for dogs mast cell tumour,  the advisor was very clear then, in telling 
Mrs C that her policy provided £8,000 per condition. So I think  UKI was more  than clear in 
explaining to Mrs C what policy she had and the limits of her cover. 
Mrs C then thought  that as it was a different lump in a different place, it wasnt  the same  
condition. But it is clear  sadly, that the same  tumour type returned and its clear also that her 
vet considered this to be a continuation of the previous condition. So I think any confusion 
here is a matter between  Mrs C and her vet and not one in which  UKI was involved. The 
policy terms are also clear, as previously detailed in the investigators  views, as regards its 
definitions of lumps and continuing conditions.  So I dont  consider UKI did anything  wrong in 
treating this second occurrence of cancer as a continuation claim from the first, more  
specifically as the vet himself  indicated that in signing his part of the form.
UKI has accepted  its communication  with Mrs C was poor at the time her limit was reached. 
It omitted  to communicate with her and instead communicated only with her vet. 
Mrs C said had she known she was near her limit, she would not have incurred the vet fees 
for a further operation and further  treatment. But I consider that has to depend  on when UKI 
saw her limit was reached as of course  its not in contact  with the vet about any on-going  
treatment of Mrs Cs dog and is simply reliant  on when claim forms are received. Further  up 
to this point UKI informed  Mrs C each  time it had paid a claim from her ordinary vet or the 
referral vet. I agree it might be have helpful if this communication showed a running total per 
each condition but I dont think that was crucial here, as Mrs C knew  herself what treatment 
her dog had had and what claims UKI had paid each  time.
So I consider the chronology of what UKI received from Mrs Cs referral vet is important, as 
of course it is only on the information UKI received, that it can make any decisions as 
regards Mrs Cs claim and indeed the limits of her insurance cover. 
Mrs Cs referral vet presented one claim form dated 8 January 2018  and signed by 
Mrs C on 2 January 2018. This was for treatment  from 2 August 2017 to 
3 January 2018 for £4,330.84. 
The referral vet then presented  another claim form dated 25 January 2018 with 
Mrs C signing  on 24 January, for treatment from 19 January 2018  to 
24 January 2018 for £552.79.
And lastly, the referral  vet presented another claim  form dated  12 February 2018 with 
Mrs C signing  it on 9 February  for treatment from 25 January to 9 February  2018  for 
£4,224.44.
There are other claim forms Mrs C normal vet in this period, which  I havent  listed, as they 
make no real difference to the issue Mrs C is complaining  about.
Ref: DRN97965323It was the first claim  form dated 8 January 2018, listed above  which  took Mrs C, over her 
£8,000 cover limit. Despite it being dated 8 January, UKI didnt receive  it from Mrs Cs vet 
until 19 January. So there  was a delay at this time that had nothing to do with UKI in my 
view. If this claim form had been received by UKI earlier, it would have processed it earlier 
too. It then went to the claims team on 24 January  to ensure what was claimed was covered 
as in the items listed etc. and then it was processed by another  department  on 29 January 
where UKI paid £2,060.28 to her vet and didnt pay £2,270.56  as that was over her £8,000  
limit for this condition. So effectively, I agree  with UKI that Mrs C reached her £8,000  limit on 
29 January. 
I also dont consider UKI overly delayed in dealing  with Mrs Cs claim here. In the call 
recording of May 2017, the adviser  told Mrs C at that particular  time,  claims were taking up 
to two weeks to process and consequently  the processing of this claim was much  faster  that 
what it had previously told Mrs C initially. Also UKI wasnt at all aware that Mrs C was about 
to give her permission  to the referral vet for her dog to have a second operation either.  
Mrs C didnt tell it that, or ask it if it would cover this upcoming operation. There is no 
evidence of any communication  from Mrs C to UKI directly at this time.
UKI said it drafted  a letter  to send to Mrs C on 30 January but simply never  sent it to her 
then. It actually didnt  send her this letter  until 26 February. It did however tell her referral vet 
with its cheque dated 29 January that Mrs C had reached the end of her cover  for this 
condition. UKI said that her vet would have received this within  three to five working  days  so 
he should have  received  this by the latest on Friday 5 February 2018. 
Ive also listened  to the call recording of 27 February when Mrs C first raised her complaint 
and the advisor  said UKI turned down part of her claim on 24 January. UKI acknowledges its 
claims advisor wrongly raised Mrs Cs expectations,  by saying, it rejected part of this claim 
on 24 January, when in fact it didnt do that until it was processed on 29 January. And it also 
acknowledges it failed  to communicate with Mrs C about her cover limit at the same  time it 
told her vet. It paid Mrs C £150 compensation for this, which she sent back. It offered to pay 
some chemotherapy charges of £648.79,  which occurred between 9 February  and 23 
February, which Mrs C also refused. However, I consider this to be adequate  compensation 
in these circumstances. Mrs C said UKI paid another claim in March  2018 for £288.08.
The second  operation to remove  the lump from the dogs shoulder took place according to 
the vet invoice on 25 January 2018,  and UKI obviously didnt know  about it until it received 
the claim form dated 12 February 2018.  This claim was also presented by the referral  after 
the referral vet had been informed by UKI that Mrs C had no more cover left for this 
condition. 
So whilst I do think UKI should have also told Mrs C her limit was now reached instead of 
just her vet, I have to agree that even if it had told her, it wouldnt have made any difference  
to Mrs C. This is because the operation would have  taken  place  before  UKI was in a position 
to know the limit had been reached or to know such vet fees were  being incurred.
UKI has confirmed to me that its still willing to pay Mrs C the compensation of £150 for its 
poor communication to her. And its still willing  to pay her chemotherapy charges of £648.79 
it offered her. Both of which  were offered before Mrs C brought  her complaint to us. 
Therefore should  Mrs C will willing to accept this, she should  contact UKI directly.
Ref: DRN97965324my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9796532