K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as C&G) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy which  Mr and Mrs C took out in 1987,  
when they took out a further advance on their mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Where, as in this case, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive  I need  to decide what  
I thinks most likely  to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has copies of all the paperwork  Mr and Mrs C signed  when they took 
out the mortgage and PPI. I dont think thats  surprising  or unreasonable,  given that the 
mortgage account was closed more  than 16 years ago. And I can't fairly  rely purely  on 
what Mr and Mrs C might be able to remember  about the sale after such  a long time.
In order to uphold the complaint, I'd need  to conclude that it's more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs C werent given a clear choice about  whether to take the PPI, or that it was 
added to their mortgage account  without their consent.  But I can't safely  reach this 
conclusion, based on the limited information  I have.
Lloyds  say there was only one PPI policy associated with the mortgage.  And it seems  
likely it was in Mr Cs name,  as the main  earner in the household. The mortgage  was a 
serious long-term financial  commitment, and Mr and Mrs Cs home would have been at 
risk if the mortgage payments werent  kept up to date. PPI provided  a dependable 
means of ensuring that their monthly repayments  were protected even if Mr C couldnt 
work. So, I can see why they might  have felt PPI was useful cover. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs C might have forgotten some of the 
details from the sale,  so many years  later. But on balance, I think  its most likely that they 
decided to protect their home by taking out PPI, and that it was added to the mortgage  at 
their request.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. This means it had a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable,  based  on 
what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN99216322I acknowledge that Mr Cs told us that hed have been entitled to some sick pay from his 
employer at the time. But the policy would potentially have paid out for significantly 
longer than hed have been entitled  to full pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr C received from his employer.  So Mr and Mrs C could have 
used those to meet other day-to-day  expenses.  Taking everything into account, I think  
the PPI could  have  been  useful  to Mr and Mrs C, particularly  as theyve told us that aside 
from Mrs Cs earnings, they didnt have any other means  they could have used to make 
their mortgage payments if Mr C had been  off sick for an extended period, or if hed lost 
his job.
It may be that Lloyds  could have explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But it 
was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr and Mrs C couldnt 
afford it. So even if Lloyds had given them clearer information about the cost, I think its 
more likely than not that theyd still have  bought  it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, 
unusual working  arrangements  or existing medical  conditions). But from what  hes told 
us about his circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr C would have been  affected by 
any of these. So I dont think better  information  about them  would have put Mr and Mrs C 
off taking the policy out.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Cs comments, including  what theyve said about  
having felt pressured into taking the PPI. But while I accept that Lloyds may have 
recommended the PPI to them, pressure is another matter, and I cant  fairly conclude that 
pressure was put on Mr and Mrs C to take the PPI, based purely on their recollection of a 
conversation that took place more than 30 years ago.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019. 
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9921632