K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy he isnt receiving email  alerts and statements about his account from 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard). 
background
Last year Mr K got in touch with Barclays  because  he said he wasnt  receiving emailed 
payment alerts and statements relating to his Barclaycard account.  Barclays looked into this 
and made  some amendments to his online account  which it thought should resolve the 
problem. It also offered a total of £63.50 in compensation which  included  a refund of late 
payment fees and interest. As Mr K still wasnt receiving alerts and statements he got back 
in touch with Barclays in May and it made  further changes to his account. It also said it 
would pay £150  in recognition of the further  inconvenience hed been caused. 
Mr K said the problem hadnt been  resolved and contacted us. Having looked  at the 
information Barclays provided our investigator  was satisfied the alerts and statements were 
now being sent. And he thought the compensation Barclays  had already  offered was fair. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said he was receiving other emails from Barclays  and didnt think it 
had done enough to investigate why he wasnt receiving alerts and statements. He thought  
this could only be because of an error  on its part. So I need  to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr K has found it really frustrating that hes not been  receiving  payment  alerts 
and statements. And it does look like there  were  some  issues  with how his account  was 
initially set up as Barclay accepted it needed  to make some  changes here. But I think  the 
compensation its already offered (which totals £213.50 and includes a refund of late 
payment charges and associated interest) does enough to recognise the impact on him of 
whats happened. 
And it does  look like Mr Ks account  is now correctly  set up. Ive seen screenshots from this 
which show Barclays has the correct  email address for him and records  statements and 
alerts being  sent out. Its really unfortunate Mr K still isnt receiving  those but on the basis  of 
the evidence thats been provided to me I cant say thats because of something  Barclays 
has done wrong. So I cant ask it to do anything  more  here.  Mr K has indicated hell 
nevertheless be looking  again at his account  settings and might  use a different email  
address; I hope that does resolve  the matter for him. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept  or reject  my decision  before 21 March 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9221288