K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy that Thilina Sri Lanka  UK Ltd (Thilina)  failed  to complete a transfer of 
£2,000 from him to his overseas beneficiary bank account. And he has not received  a 
response from them. 
background 
Mr S made a payment of £2,000 through Thilina in January 2019, like he had done  many 
times previously. Unfortunately, a few days later Mr S noticed  that the payment hadnt been  
sent so contacted Thilina about  the delay. Thilina said it was unable to check  at the time but 
would get back  to him the following day. 
Mr S didnt hear back from Thilina  despite contacting them  on several  occasions.  He then 
referred his complaint to our service.  Thilina has not responded to any of our requests for 
information. Mr S has told us that the overseas beneficiary account has not received the 
funds. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint on the basis that Thilina failed to process the transfer  
in line with Mr Ss instructions. He concluded  that Thilina should refund Mr S his payment of 
£2,000 and pay £250 compensation  for failing to process the transfer, failing to respond to 
Mr Ss queries and failing to respond  to this service. 
Mr S accepted these  recommendations.  We received  no response from Thilina so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive, I reach my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened, in light of the 
evidence that is available  and wider surrounding  circumstances. 
Mr S has provided us with information  showing hed asked Thilina to make  a payment of 
£2,000 to his overseas beneficiary  bank account. I think its likely that Mr S did make the 
payment to Thilina  of £2,000. He has told us that the funds werent received by the overseas 
beneficiary bank  account.  We have attempted to contact Thilina but to date we have 
received no response. And Ive not seen  anything to indicate the payment was ever actually 
made by Thilina.  On this basis on balance I conclude that Thilina didnt transfer  Mr Ss 
money as he instructed  them  to. Its failure  either  to refund  the money or to send it as 
instructed represents  a loss to Mr S for which he should be compensated.
I also think in the circumstances Thilinas failure  to carry out Mr Ss instructions would have 
caused him distress  and inconvenience. I think he would have been particularly distressed 
as it appears Thilina has provided no information to him about  what has happened to his 
money. 
So I generally agree with the recommendations suggested by the investigator except I think  
Thilina should also pay Mr S interest  on the £2,000 from the date he paid it in January, in 
recognition of the fact hes been deprived of the use of that money.  
Ref: DRN98986002my final decision
For the reason  mentioned above,  my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put 
things right Thilina Sri Lanka UK Ltd should:  
refund  the full £2,000  to Mr S
pay Mr S 8% gross interest  per year from 5 January 2019 to the date of settlement1. 
pay Mr S £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to him
If Mr S accepts  this decision,  Thilina Sri Lanka  UK Ltd should pay this settlement within 14 
days of us writing to it to confirm that acceptance. If Thilina Sri Lanka UK Ltd does not do so, 
then it must also pay additional interest  calculated in line with 2. based on the whole sum of 
1. to 3. above1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs  rules may require Thilina Sri Lanka  UK Ltd to take off tax from the interest 
elements of this award.  If Thilina  Sri Lanka UK Ltd does deduct  tax, it must  give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken  off.
Ref: DRN9898600