K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about charges when  he transferred  his pension from a fund operated 
through Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Limited.
background
Mr O had an Executive Pension  Plan (EPP) operated through  Sun Life. He stopped paying 
premiums in 1995, and transferred the fund value to his new employers pension scheme in 
1997.
The EPP value at the time of transfer  was £1,510.94, but after charges were  deducted  only 
£377.49 was transferred  to Mr Os new pension scheme. 
Mr O says Sun Life didnt warn him about the charges and he considers they were 
excessive. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He concluded that the 
charges had been deducted in line with the EPPs terms  and conditions,  so he didnt 
consider Sun Life had acted unfairly.
Mr O didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions  so the complaint was passed  to me.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 15 July 2020. A copy  is attached at 
Appendix A and forms part of this final decision.  My provisional decision was that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint, but I expanded on the reasons given by the adjudicator. I 
wanted to give the parties  an opportunity to make further representations before I issued a 
final decision.
Mr O responded to say that he didnt agree with my provisional findings. He said the 
considerable deduction to his transfer  value was unfair - compounded by the fact that the 
deduction wasnt disclosed  by Sun Life.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  the amount of time thats  passed  since  Mr Os policy  
was sold means theres limited information available from the point of sale.  Where the 
evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive noted everything  Mr O has said in response to my provisional  findings. I appreciate  the 
deduction to his fund was significant, so I can understand why he considers it unfair. Im also 
aware that Mr O says the deduction wasnt disclosed  by Sun Life. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  from the limited evidence thats available on balance I 
think its possible it was standard practice for Mr Os employer to provide this type of policy  
for its employees. And that means  its unlikely that Sun Life provided  any advice about the 
policies to employees of that company. 
Ref: DRN99218652Its for that reason that I cant safely say that SunLife was at fault for the decision to establish 
this type of policy. Unfortunately, the way this type of policy operates means that it can be 
disadvantageous if regular premiums arent maintained. But as I said in the provisional 
decision, the policy terms set out what would happen in event of the policy being made paid  
up. And I dont  think  it would have been  a reasonable expectation that Sun Life would 
produce projections or illustrations at the outset which would demonstrate the consequences  
of each possible scenario under the policy.
On balance I remain satisfied that the deduction  was applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr O, but Im still not persuaded to uphold  the complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 October  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99218653APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr O complains about charges when he transferred  his pension from a fund operated through  Sun 
Life Assurance  Company  of Canada  (UK) Limited.
background
Mr O had an Executive  Pension  Plan (EPP) operated through Sun Life. He stopped paying premiums 
in 1995, and transferred the fund value  to his new employers pension scheme  in 1997.
The EPP value at the time of transfer was £1,510.94,  but after charges  were  deducted only £377.49 
was transferred to Mr Os new pension  scheme. 
Mr O says Sun Life didnt warn him about the charges and he considers they were  excessive. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that the charges 
had been deducted in line with the EPPs  terms and conditions, so he didnt consider Sun Life had 
acted unfairly.
Mr O didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I think is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding circumstances.
Mr O says he arranged the EPP during the early  part of his career,  and that he didnt expect  to stay in 
the job he was doing for long. He says Sun Life didnt  warn  him there might be excessive charges if 
he transferred the fund value to another pension scheme in the early years.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr O and Sun Life when the 
EPP was arranged, as these events occurred over twenty years  ago. Sun Life hasnt been able to 
provide much documentation  from the point of sale, which isnt surprising given the amount of time 
thats passed. I dont think its reasonable to expect the business to have kept all the paperwork from 
the time Mr Os EPP was sold.
But Sun Life has told us that between 1986 and 1993 similar policies  were sold to other employees  
who worked for the same  employer as Mr O. So its possible it was standard practice  for Mr Os 
employer to provide this type of policy for its employees. 
If that was the case, its unlikely Sun Life wouldve  provided  any advice to employees about  the 
policies. That means it wouldnt have  had to assess whether the policy was suitable  for Mr O. 
Sun Life has provided a copy  of the terms and conditions for the EPP. These say that if a plan 
becomes paid up in the second policy year (as in Mr Os case), a percentage of the capital units will 
be cancelled, based on the number  of months premiums were paid. For Mr O, the number of units 
cancelled wouldve been  16%.
Ref: DRN99218654The terms  go on to say that where a transfer of the paid up policy  is made, the transfer value will be 
the accumulated  amount  (as defined  in the terms) less a deduction. 
The terms  allowed the employer  to determine the deduction in respect of capital and accumulation 
units allocated to two specific accounts within the fund. Ive seen nothing  to suggest Mr O had units  in 
those accounts, so I think its unlikely that those provisions of the terms applied to him.
The terms  go on to say:
In respect of Capital and Accumulation Units not allocated to the [name of specific account] the 
deduction shall be a percentage of Capital  Units allocated to the Policy as per Table  2 and no 
deduction will apply to the Accumulation  Units  allocated to the Policy.
Table 2 shows the percentage of capital units to be cancelled, based on the members number of 
complete years to Normal  Retirement Date (NRD). Table 2 shows that members with twenty  five 
years to NRD would have  64% of their capital units cancelled. Table  2 also says:
The percentage  of Capital Units to be cancelled  where  the number of complete  years to Normal 
Retirement Date is greater than 25 will be determined by the Company. 
Mr O was more than thirty years from NRD when  he transferred  out of the EPP. So his employer 
wouldve determined how many units would  be cancelled. Given  the percentage cancellation for 
members with 25 years to NRD, I think its likely that the percentage for Mr O was more  than 64%. 
And I think this would  explain why his transfer value  was reduced so significantly.
From what Ive seen, on balance  I think Mr Os transfer value was calculated  in line with the EPPs  
terms and conditions.  
Mr O says he complained  about the transfer value at the time, but that he didnt get a reply. Sun Life 
hasnt got a record  of a complaint  from that time, but Im satisfied that its dealt with this complaint in a 
fair way.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Sun Life has done anything wrong, so Im not minded to uphold the 
complaint. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not intend to uphold  Mr Os complaint.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9921865