K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc havent  completed his stocks  and shares Individual  
Savings Account (ISA) transfer request.
background
In May 2018, Mr D tried to transfer his stocks and shares ISA from his existing provider to 
Santander. He requested  for the transfer  to take place in cash.  Sometime after his request, 
Santander wrote to Mr D to say they hadnt yet received the cheque so the transfer  couldnt  
be completed. 
Mr Ds existing provider said they could only complete the transfer by BACS payment and 
Santander couldnt accept this method of transfer.  Santander apologised to Mr D for the 
delays and inconvenience and said a cheque payment  was the only method of transfer they 
could accept for Mr Ds type of account. 
One of our investigators  said he couldnt tell Santander to make  a decision outside of their 
terms and conditions to facilitate Mr Ds transfer. He said that Santander  couldve made their 
requirements clearer at the outset  but he wasnt persuaded it would have made a material  
difference as it didnt  seem that Mr D was aware  of the payment transfer  issues.  He did ask 
if Santander were willing  to make an exception in this case  and they said they werent.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to look into the complaint, he said the HMRC  allows for ISA 
transfers and this isnt a fair customer outcome. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with what our 
investigator has said for much of the same  reasons.
Santanders commercial  decision is to only facilitate incoming stocks and shares ISA 
transfers (in cash) by cheque only. Santanders  commercial decision isnt one wed normally 
interfere with and its clear Santander  and Mr Ds existing ISA provider cant  find a way to 
facilitate Mr Ds transfer. So Ive considered  whether Santander are required to facilitate this 
transfer. 
The HMRC  provides guidance  for ISA managers like Santander and Mr Ds existing  ISA 
provider. This doesnt provide specific guidance on stocks and shares  ISA accounts like Mr 
Ds. It also doesnt require  ISA managers  to accept payments in nor does it specify  the 
payment method that should be used. 
Santander have  a duty of care to their clients. The Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook 
includes some  overriding principles for firms. There is one principle that Ive considered in 
relation to Mr Ds complaint. Principle 6 is a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Mr D doesnt think Santanders response  was a fair answer. I agree that Santander could 
have been more forthcoming of their requirements  when  Mr D requested a transfer but I 
dont think this would have made  a difference here.  I say this because  Mr D wasnt  aware of 
the potential process  issues  from his existing provider.  Its clear that Santander  and Mr Ds 
Ref: DRN92582652existing provider arent able to mutually  agree a way forward and there  isnt anything that 
Ive seen that would require them to do so. I dont think this would amount to treating Mr D 
unfairly as Santander  arent required to facilitate his transfer and they did explain the 
problems they were facing  albeit this could have been sooner.  
As a way forward, Mr D may wish to take advice about his options of transferring his existing 
stocks and shares ISA out from his existing provider.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9258265