K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Santander  UK Plc has wrongfully blocked or restricted  their joint 
bank account  and direct debits  havent  been paid.  They say this has caused  them  loss and 
damaged their reputations. They want at least £5,000 compensation.
background
Santander asked  Mr T for some additional  information and documents  so that it could meet 
its UK legal  and regulatory requirements.  And it asked him to send  it in with a form or go a 
branch by 7 September  2018 otherwise it would need to restrict access to the account. That 
would mean  money  couldnt be taken out of it and one off payments, like standing  orders  
and direct debits, wouldnt  be made.  
Santander said in its final response that it had acted in line with legal and regulatory 
requirements. Its also said if Mr T continues to refuse to provide  the information  needed  
accounts will be closed. Its also said that two savings accounts  remain blocked  but the 
current account isnt. In normal circumstances a block can be lifted for 24 hours allowing 
important bills to be paid.  But for an unknown reason in this case  although the block was 
removed on 2 October 2018  it wasnt replaced.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Santander sent Mr T a number  of letters asking for updated information from him to 
meet its legal and regulatory obligations.  It also warned him that without the 
information accounts would be restricted.  It also explained things in some  phone 
calls. 
Financial institutions  are entitled  to request information from their customers  as they 
have an obligation  to understand who they are dealing  with. Santanders letters  are in 
line with what he would expect  to see. They clearly set out what would happen if the 
requested information isnt given.   
Santander hasnt  done anything wrong when the direct debits were returned. And it 
acted positively and sympathetically by allowing the current  account to be unblocked 
on 2 October 2018 to allow  some payments to be made from it. But it appears to 
have made the mistake  of not blocking it again 24 hours later. But that error hasnt 
inconvenienced Mr T. Two savings  accounts  remain blocked. Ultimately  if Santander  
isnt comfortable  with the level of information it holds it may chose to close  an 
account.
Mr T doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says hes 
been told by the Financial  Conduct Authority that theres no legislation requiring Santander 
to meet  UK legal and regulatory requirements  or that its duty bound to comply with them.  Its 
also not sent the form to its other  customers and thats discrimination. He was therefore right 
not to return the form to Santander. Its threats to block his account  and not paying  direct 
debits when there was money in the account were breaches  of contract. Returning direct 
debits with the endorsement refer to drawer  implied he didnt have any money in the 
account. The blockage  affected his integrity  and reputation. The account has been  
unblocked which shows Santander knows it made  a serious mistake.  
Ref: DRN93262942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander is entitled to decide  for itself who it deals with and what  information  it asks them 
for to satisfy  its own checks and any regulatory  or legal obligations  it considers  it has. In this 
case it asked Mr T for some more  information about his circumstances as it was reasonably 
entitled to do. As Santander  has explained  it will ask different customers  for varying  amounts 
and types of information. I think  thats  fair and Ive seen nothing to suggest Santander has 
discriminated against Mr T as he suggests. 
Santander adequately explained  to Mr T on the phone and in its letters what would happen if 
he didnt supply the information  it wanted.  It said accounts could be blocked and ultimately 
closed. 
When Mr T chose not to respond to its requests I think Santander acted reasonably  by 
blocking these accounts and not paying direct debits from the joint current account. I also 
think its reference to the payments being referred to drawer was a standard generic 
description of there being a problem with them  being made and not necessarily confirmation  
that there  wasnt money in the account. I dont think Santander did anything wrong using this 
phrase. 
Santander also acted  reasonably by unblocking the account on 2 October 2018 to allow 
some payments to be made. And I think Santanders only error  appears to have been its 
failure to reinstitute the block after 24 hours as was its normal practice. But I doubt that error 
prejudiced Mr T in any way. And I dont consider this shows  Santander knows it made a 
serious mistake as Mr T has suggested.
Taking everything into account  I think Santander has treated  Mr and Mrs T fairly  when 
blocking their joint account when Mr T wouldnt provide the information  it reasonably  
requested and considered it required to fulfil its legal and regulatory obligations. 
We arent a regulator  and its not for me to determine what  Santanders legal or regulatory  
obligations are. And we cant require it to change its practices and procedures.  General 
issues about how the banking industry works  are a matter for the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
Overall I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require Santander to do anything more  or 
differently including paying Mr and Mrs T any compensation as theyd  like. And I dont  see 
any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93262943
Ref: DRN9326294