K820x#14complaint
Mr F complained he was mis-sold a critical illness and life cover  policy  by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds).
background
Mr F met with Lloyds in branch in March 2012  to re-mortgage his property. During the 
meeting Mr F was sold a critical  illness  and life cover policy.  It costed him £66.07 per month. 
Our adjudicator felt the policy wasnt mis-sold. Mr F didnt agree with out adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  referred to me to make a decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I appreciate Mr F feels strongly about  his complaint; specifically that he was led to believe that 
taking out the policy  meant it was more likely his mortgage would be approved.  And so having 
felt pressured  into taking it out, he reluctantly agreed  to the cover.  And I accept that this is how 
Mr F might remember the sale, but there is little evidence to support his recollection. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I think this was an advised sale where  a full review of 
Mr Fs circumstances  was carried out. The notes from the meeting suggest Lloyds 
recommended a policy that was both affordable and suitable for Mr Fs needs. As this was 
an advised sale I think its likely Lloyds told Mr F he should take out the policy, but thats 
different to saying that he had to take it out. It also looks like Mr F accepted  the basic  level of 
cover but he made the choice to refuse an enhanced level of cover,  and there is no mention 
here about the policy having any effect  on the success of Mr Fs mortgage  application.  
Mr F has also told us that he felt pressured into taking  out the policy.  He has provided  this 
evidence on more than one occasion  and Ive considered what hes said. In order  to uphold 
the complaint  on this point I have to be satisfied  that it was more  likely than not that Mr F felt 
he had no other option  but to accept the cover. But Mr F hasnt given us a lot of detail about  
the discussion or told us what  exactly was said that made him feel pressured into taking it. 
So from the evidence  I have, Im not persuaded that this was the case and so I cannot safely  
uphold the complaint on this point. 
Ive also seen that Mr F was sent a letter titled Right to Change  Your  Mind. Although this 
was sent to Mr F after the sale of the policy, it was sent within the first 10 days  of the start 
date. This letter clearly gave Mr F the chance  to cancel  the policy if he had now changed  his 
mind. So I think had Mr F initially felt pressured into taking out a policy he didnt want, he 
wouldve taken this opportunity to cancel  it.    
Having considered all the evidence, including  what  Mr F has said, I think  its more likely the 
adviser recommended the cover to him and he agreed to take it out, knowing he had a choice.
When recommending  the critical illness cover  to Mr F, the adviser should have made sure he 
had a need for this type of cover. And that the plan recommended met those  needs.
Ref: DRN96882562Mr F says he didnt  need critical illness or life cover because of the benefits  he wouldve 
received from his employer. While I agree Mr F wouldve received sick pay which  wouldve 
been useful for him had he been too unwell to work,  this wouldnt last indefinitely.  Based on 
what Mr F has told us, this sick pay wouldve  have  helped  him to keep up his mortgage 
repayments (and other household expenditure)  for up to six months  while receiving full pay. 
But after this, I think he is likely to have struggled. And as he was solely responsible  for his 
mortgage payments,  I think having the critical illness cover  in place provided him with some 
additional financial security.  
The types of illness that would have  allowed  Mr F to make a successful critical illness claim 
are generally  those that are likely to have a long term impact  on his life, often meaning it isnt 
possible to return to work. Theres also the possibility of the illness causing extra expenses - 
for example, medical expenses or adapting  the house. So a plan that would pay him a lump 
sum if he was diagnosed  with this type of illness would  seem to be useful for him.
Mr F told us he was entitled to death in service benefits from his employer which wouldve 
paid out three times of his salary, which he says wouldve been enough to pay off his 
mortgage. But this benefit wouldve only been  available to him for the time he worked with 
this employer. And even  though Mr F felt this job was secure  at the time,  there  was no 
guarantee that his job would be secure  in the future.  Having the life cover in place meant 
Mr Fs loved  ones would not be left with an outstanding mortgage debt had he unfortunately 
died during the life of this policy,  and based  on the evidence provided from the sale,  it seems 
like this was important to Mr F at the time.  So overall I think the policy was suitable  for him.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask MR F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9688256