K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr G are unhappy with the settlement offer made by Assurant General Insurance  
Limited (Assurant) following a claim.  
background
Mrs and Mr G made a claim under their insurance for a broken iPad. Assurant inspected the 
iPad and agreed  that it was covered under the policy. They said they couldnt replace  the 
iPad, so would offer a cash settlement instead.  
Assurant offered Mrs and Mr G £136.77 based on the advertised  prices for the same iPad 
from various sellers on an on-line market place.  Mrs and Mr G werent happy with this. They 
said they didnt  want to buy an iPad online, and prices in other  retailers were higher.  
They brought their complaint to this service and an investigator reviewed it. She felt 
Mrs and Mr G had a point,  and that it wasnt fair to base the price solely  on the on-line 
sellers.  She recommended that Assurant  offer Mrs and Mr G £180, based on the prices she 
had seen for similar iPad from a number  of retailers, both online  and high street based. She 
also recommended  that Assurant add interest  at 8% simple to the £180  from date of claim to 
date of payment.  
Assurant didnt agree, saying  that other sellers reviewed only sold used devices with no 
warranty or guarantee. As the case could not be resolved informally, it was passed for a final 
decision.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute here that the damaged iPad is covered under the terms of the policy, 
and Mrs and Mr G have confirmed they are happy to accept a cash  settlement.   
Ive looked at the policy terms  and they state  that where the business cannot repair or 
replace an item they will contact the consumer to arrange an alternative claims settlement.   
There is no further explanation of how this alternative settlement will be established.  
Broadly speaking, I agree  with the investigator  in this case, if a cash settlement is to be 
offered, it needs to be based on actual retail  prices, across a number of market  places.  I 
dont think restricting the example to one, online only market place is fair, it runs the risk of 
distorting the actual  price, and potentially penalises consumers who may not be able to use 
that particular  market place.
To reach a fair value,  the investigator  looked  at a variety of retailers selling similar quality 
and specification iPads. She also established that these  retailers  were offering  warranties  
and guarantees,  so Assurants concerns that the consumer  would  not have those benefits 
are unfounded. 
So, having  reviewed the evidence supplied by the business, Mrs and Mr G and the 
investigator which showed a range of prices  for an iPad of the same make and model from a 
variety of retailers, I can see that advertised prices range from £75 to £250. So, it follows  
Ref: DRN90769552that I consider that if Assurant wishes to settle this claim on a cash basis, a value of £180 
plus interest as described above, is fair.    
my final decision
It is my final decision to uphold this complaint. 
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr G £180 less any applicable 
excess, if not already paid, to settle  this claim. 
Interest at 8% should  be applied to the amount payable from date of claim to date of 
settlement.  
I make  no other award. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 January 2021.
Sarah Holmes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9076955