K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold for a mortgage. 
Mrs R has complained on behalf of herself  and the estate of the late Mr R. She says Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy for their mortgage in 2000. Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mrs R in case  she 
was off work  sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Having done that, I dont  think  that this PPI policy  was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage application had a section for PPI. It only recommended that they 
thought about it, and then it had boxes where they could fill in their details if they wanted the 
policy, which could be left blank if they didnt want it. At that point, Mr and Mrs R didnt apply 
for PPI, and instead  there was a handwritten note about them  getting  a quotation.
The PPI was sold over the phone. Because of the time thats passed, there isnt still a 
recording of the call. But the adviser  filled out a PPI application form to reflect  what  was 
discussed. They noted that the cover was for Mrs R only and that theyd checked she was 
eligible, and they went through  her employment and health situation.  The adviser also 
recorded what benefit shed need and what it would cost. So it looks like the PPI was 
discussed in some detail.  And this was done  separately to applying  for the mortgage  itself, 
rather than as part and parcel of the loan. Further, Mrs R later claimed on the policy 
successfully, so it looks like she knew she had it. Overall, I think  its most likely  that Halifax 
made Mr and Mrs R aware they had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that they chose to 
take it at the time  though I can understand if Mrs R no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mrs R, so it had to check it was right for her. And based  on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For instance,  Mrs R wasnt  
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. While Mrs R said she had good 
benefits through work, the PPI covered her for twice as long and wouldve paid out on top of 
those benefits.  I also understand  her family mightve been more than willing to help, but 
circumstances change  and there  was always the chance theyd be unable  to help when 
needed. Further, this mortgage was Mr and Mrs Rs responsibility, so I dont think  it wouldve  
been suitable for Halifax to have recommended they rely on other  people  to pay it. Its also 
worth bearing in mind  that Mrs R was the sole earner at the time, and if Mr and Mrs R fell 
behind on their mortgage payments they risked  losing  their home. So it looks like the PPI 
couldve been useful  for them in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN99452712Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs R about  PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mrs R wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs R in case  
something went wrong. The policy was not bad value given how much it would pay out in a 
claim and I havent seen any indication that it was unaffordable. Then if Mr or Mrs Rs 
circumstances changed or they changed  their minds, they could cancel the PPI at any time 
without a penalty. So overall, I dont  think that better information was likely to have put Mr or 
Mrs R off taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9945271