K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that he was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Bank of 
Scotland plc has taken  responsibility for the sale of this policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr J in 1996. Mr J was covered 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.  The policy cost £13.93 per month and wouldve 
provided a monthly  benefit of £836.04  per month for up to 12 months per successful claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
Mr J said he was sold the PPI by another company. He says the broker  told him he had to 
have PPI. Bank of Scotland  has taken responsibility  for this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Bank of Scotland gave any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the product 
it recommended was suitable  for Mr Js needs?
- Did Bank of Scotland  give Mr J the information he needed to decide  whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr J is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Js complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr J says he took out PPI because  he was told he had to, to get the mortgage.  he says he 
wasnt given an option. Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to provide the paperwork from the 
time of sale,  as these  events occurred a number of years ago. This isnt surprising; 
businesses often only keep records for up to six years. We dont hold it against the business 
in circumstances  like this.
I cant know what was discussed when Mr J took out the PPI. Ive carefully  considered what 
Mr Js said. Ive also taken into account  what Bank  of Scotland has said about the sales 
process that wouldve likely applied at the time of this sale. Where there is a limited amount 
Ref: DRN92051962of information,  I have to consider what is more likely. Here, I think  it just as likely that the 
business did make  the optional  nature of the policy clear. So, I cant  fairly  uphold Mr Js 
complaint on this ground. Given the limited paperwork available to me, I cant  safely  
conclude that the business didnt make the optional nature of the policy  clear  to Mr J. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. That means  that the business had to consider whether 
the policy was suitable for Mr J, as well as giving him enough  clear  information so that he 
could make an informed  choice and decide  whether  he wanted  to buy it.
 
Looking at Mr Js circumstances at the time of the sale, it doesnt appear  that the policy was 
unsuitable for him. I say this because:
- he was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions. 
- he said he wouldve got around  3 months  worth of sick pay through work if he 
couldnt work due to sickness  or accident.  The policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
his work benefits and for up to 12 months per successful  claim, longer than his work 
benefits wouldve  covered him for. Having  the policy  in place wouldve meant he 
could use his work- related benefits to pay for other household expenses, particularly 
as he said he didnt have any other  ways of making  his repayments. So I think  Mr J 
wouldve found the policy useful in his circumstances.
- Mr J wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefitted  from the full extent of the cover,  I dont think 
he needed better advice or information  about  the policys exclusions and limitations.
- It possible the business couldve made  the costs of the policy clearer  at the time it 
was sold. But, it seemed affordable and covered Mr Js mortgage repayments. I cant  
see that he wouldve made a different decision and not bought  the policy if hed been  
given clearer information.
Its possible the information Mr J was given about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been. As Ive already said, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr J would  have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided   overall,  I think he would still have taken 
out the policy. 
I cant see that hes lost out because of anything that Bank of Scotland may have done 
wrong.
Ref: DRN92051963my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9205196