K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy that Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited hasnt paid
him everything hes entitled to under his income  protection insurance policy.
background 
Mr C, who was self-employed, took out an income  protection insurance policy with Sun Life
in 1999. If, after a period of three months,  Mr C was unable to perform his normal  occupation
because of illness or injury hed receive  a monthly  benefit under the policy.
Towards the end of 2011, Mr C stopped working  because of anxiety.  He made  a claim under
the policy. Sun Life eventually accepted the claim and started paying benefit. But it didnt
initially pay Mr C the maximum monthly benefit  because it said there wasnt  enough
evidence to support  his pre-disability earnings.
Mr C has made a previous complaint to this Service including:
     -      the  way in which Sun Life calculated his pre-disability earnings;
     -      Sun  Life unfairly  deducting state  benefits from the monthly  payment due under the
policy; and that
- Sun Life should be responsible for the trouble and upset he had suffered as a result
of its actions.
This complaint was determined by a fellow ombudsman in August 2016. He partly upheld  the
complaint and said:
If Mr C is able to show that Sun Life should  increase  its estimate of his pre-incapacity
income, and hence  his benefit payments, I would expect Sun Life to backdate those  
payments to the start of his claim.  I wouldnt  necessarily expect Sun Life to add interest to 
the backdated payments because I think that Sun Life has acted reasonably  until now based  
on the evidence  of earnings  provided  by Mr C.
While Sun Life acted  wrongly in deducting an amount for state benefit even though
Mr C wasnt eligible to receive  this, Im satisfied that the redress  I have proposed for
this is adequate compensation. Given that I havent found Sun Life at fault in other
respects, I dont think it is appropriate to award compensation for distress and
inconvenience.
He concluded,  amongst  other things, that Sun Life should:
subject to Mr C providing the necessary  evidence as to his gross  taxable earnings,
reassess the level of benefit to which he is entitled. If Mr C wishes, and subject to
him providing the relevant  evidence, this reassessment should  use the average of his
gross taxable earnings for the years 2009/10, 2010/11 and 2011/12 as the basis for
calculating his pre-incapacity income
Mr C didnt accept the ombudsmans  decision.
But in March 2017 Mr Cs representative provided Sun Life with further evidence regarding
his pre-disability earnings. Mr Cs representative also provided Sun Life with further
supporting documents at Sun Lifes request at the end of May 2017.
Ref: DRN91139612In July 2017 Sun Life recalculated the benefit based on this evidence and made a payment
of almost £50,000 to Mr C. This payment was made  up of backdated  monthly benefits to the
end of the deferral period. It also included the amounts it had deducted  from his benefit over
a number of years together with interest.
Mr Cs representative sent Sun Life further information in October  2017  to support an
increase in pre-disability earnings. Sun Life accepted that information,  further  recalculated
the amount Mr C had been entitled to and paid him an additional sum of around £8,600 in
backdated benefit. It also confirmed the amount of the monthly benefit going  forwards.
When making the monthly benefit payment to Mr C in November 2017,  Sun Life accidently
made an overpayment  of around £30,000 which it requested back from Mr C. He promptly
repaid it.
Mr C also questioned the monthly payment  as it was a little lower  than he thought it should
be. Sun Life responded in early  December 2017 saying it had checked the annual retail price
index (RPI) increases  and it had used a higher percentage than it shouldve done in
March 2015 and March 2017. It said Mr C had been  overpaid by around £615  but it wouldnt
seek to recover that amount from him.
Mr C then asked Sun Life to confirm the RPI it had used each year to calculate the yearly
increase in the maximum benefit payable under the policy. In January 2018 Sun Life
confirmed that the RPI increase hadnt been added in March 2015  which  meant that the
subsequent RPI increases it had used  were incorrect. This resulted in Mr Cs monthly benefit
being lower than it shouldve been.
Sun Life also wrote to Mr C in February 2018  saying it had omitted to apply the RPI increase
which was immediately due after the three months  deferral period had passed.  It said Mr C
was owed a further payment of almost  £3,000  plus interest going back to the end of
May 2017 when  it received the evidence it required from Mr C to recalculate his pre-disability
earnings.
When making this payment to Mr C, Sun Life deducted the amount of £615 it previously said
it had overpaid him, but wouldnt seek to recover. Mr C challenged this and Sun Life
admitted the error and repaid the amount  back to him.
Initially Mr C said he was unhappy  with:
-the monthly benefit hed been paid and that it was less than the maximum amount he
could receive under  the policy;
-Sun Life not paying him interest on the total amount its repaid him after recalculating
his pre-disability income; and 
-the benefit start date being  25 February  2012 rather  than 9 February  2012.  Mr C
says that the three months deferral period shouldve started  on 9 November 2011
and not 25 November 2011,  as Sun Life says.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said she couldnt look into whether
Mr C had received the correct benefit payments under the policy  or whether hes owed
interest on those amounts. She said those issues  had already been determined by an
ombudsman - so couldnt be reconsidered. She didnt think  Sun Life had acted unreasonably
by saying the deferral period started  on 25 November  2011 rather than 9 November 2011.
Ref: DRN91139613Mr C disagreed. Although  he agreed  to withdraw  his complaint about whether hes received 
the correct benefit  amount under the policy,  he said the ombudsman who decided  his 
previous complaint didnt address the issue of whether interest is payable on the benefit 
amounts that have  now been paid. He remained  unhappy about the date the deferral period 
started and with the number of mistakes Sun Life has made, more recently, when calculating 
the monthly benefit payments due under the policy - and when processing certain payments.
Mr Cs complaint was passed  to me to make  a decision. I issued by provisional  decision on 
6 February 2019  explaining why I was thinking of partly upholding Mr Cs complaint.  Sun Life 
responded saying it accepted my proposed outcome. Mr C has provided a detailed reply, 
setting out the reasons why he disagrees.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I partly  uphold it.
Before I explain why, I want to thank Mr C for taking  the time to provide such  a detailed 
response, at a time when  he hasnt  been well. The majority of his points  relate to why he 
thinks I should be able to consider points that a previous, fellow  ombudsman  has considered 
 especially  around  the issue of whether he should receive backdated interest  to the start of 
his claim.  
The ombudsman in his final decision  dated  August 2016 says: I wouldnt necessarily expect
Sun Life to add interest to the backdated payments because  I think  that Sun Life has acted
reasonably until now based on the evidence of earnings provided by Mr C.
Ive considered all of the points Mr C has raised but theyre not necessarily new points.  And 
as at August  2016 a previous ombudsman had decided that Sun Life dont need to add 
interest on the recalculated and backdated benefit  Mr C was due. So, I wont  be looking into, 
or deciding,  that issue again.
But I have looked  at whether Sun Life has acted  reasonably since  the date of that decision
when calculating Mr Cs backdated  payments,  given  the information  Mr C has given it since
and the time its taken  to consider that information and make payment to Mr C. And I think it
has.
Sun Life didnt receive the information it needed  from Mr C to do the necessary calculations
until March 2017  and I dont think it was unreasonable  for Sun Life to request further
supporting documentation from him, which it received at the end of May 2017.  It then
calculated the amount  owed to Mr C and agreed to make the backdated  payment to Mr C in
July 2017. Thats not an unreasonable timeframe.
Sun Life also responded reasonably promptly to the further information it was sent in
October 2017 and paid Mr C a further  backdated payment after he was able to substantiate
that hed received additional income before  he became ill.
Although Im satisfied  Mr C isnt entitled  to any more interest of the policy  benefit that has 
now been recalculated and paid to him, I think Sun Life has put Mr C to unnecessary  trouble 
and upset since recalculating the policy benefit  in or around October 2017. This includes:
-sending Mr C an additional  £30,000, in error, in November 2017 and putting him to
Ref: DRN91139614the trouble of having to send this back;
-telling  Mr C in December 2017 that it had mis-calculated the RPI for 2015 and 2017
and as a result hed been overpaid  by around £615. He was also told that his monthly
benefit would be reduced going forwards because of the re-calculation;
-subsequently admitting  that it had got the RPI wrong and Mr C hadnt been overpaid. 
Rather, Mr C was still owed an additional backdated payment of around £3,000; and
-when paying  him that amount, deducting the payment it had previously  said it
wouldnt seek to reclaim from him.
Mr C had to engage  in various phone calls and written  correspondence about these issues
so he was put to some  inconvenience. Given the issues  that hes had I can see how he
would feel particularly frustrated and worried about the conflicting information hed been 
given  particularly  about the monthly benefit hed be getting. Although  Mr C has been going 
through a very tough time, I think these issues - which started  in November 2017 - wouldve
exacerbated the anxiety he was feeling and Sun Life should pay him £350 trouble and upset 
for this.
the benefit payment date:
Mr C says that he didnt  work after 9 November 2011, and that may be the case. He says
that he could get evidence  from his former  workplace confirming this. But that would only
show that he wasnt working  not that he couldnt  work because of illness.
I appreciate what Mr C says about  waiting to see whether he could manage his anxiety
levels by himself before he contacted his GP. And that due to a variety of factors,  he was
unable to meet with his GP until 25 November  2011.  But without anything else,  and because
the GP didnt sign him off as being  unfit to work  when he saw him, I dont think  Sun Life has
acted unreasonably by using 25 November  2011 as the date from which  the three months
deferral period should run from.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  
should pay Mr C £350 by way of trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9113961