K822xcomplaint
Mrs L complains  about St Andrews Insurance Plcs  handling of a claim she made on a home 
insurance policy.
background 
Mrs L holds insurance  on a property underwritten by St Andrews. Where I refer to St 
Andrews within this decision this includes  its agents  and representatives.
In 2017, Mrs L made a claim  for damage to the property. St Andrews carried out 
investigations and concluded that the claim was covered  and that the damage had been 
caused by subsidence.
Mrs Ls complaint is about several matters, but the main issue is that she disagrees that the 
claim should be recorded as subsidence. Shes  also unhappy about delays on the claim, and 
that snagging repairs following the main  repairs havent been completed.
St Andrews  rejected her complaint about how the claim should be recorded. It did 
acknowledge that there had been  delays to the claim  and offered to pay £125  in 
compensation. Mrs L was dissatisfied with this response, and so she referred  her complaint 
to our service. Our investigator thought that St Andrews had fairly recorded the claim as one 
of subsidence  but asked  that St Andrews amend records on a database. He also thought  
that the compensation for delays should be increased by £75, making  a total of £200.
St Andrews  accepted this but Mrs L did not. She says she has evidence  to show  that the 
cause of the damage to the property  was an escape  of water,  and so this should be 
recorded as the reason for the claim. As no agreement  could be reached, her complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main  issue I need to consider here is whether St Andrews has acted fairly  when  it 
recorded the damage to Mrs Ls property as being caused by subsidence. In support of its 
position, it says that the subsidence has been  caused by a leaking drain  which compromised 
the soil beneath  the foundations of the property. 
The evidence I have  is that the damage  to Mrs L property is consistent with what  would be 
expected for subsidence  there were cracks indicating  that the property had moved. It isnt 
disputed that there  had been movement of the property. 
Mrs L has provided evidence from a surveyor. They consider that the claim should more  
accurately be recorded as an escape of water  claim (which would be subject to different 
terms and conditions, including  a much lower excess  payable  by Mrs L) because the reason 
the damage has occurred can be linked directly  to the leaking drain.
The underlying cause of whats happened here (the leaking drain)  isnt disputed. The 
question is how the damage caused by this should be recorded. I think  St Andrews 
approach here is reasonable.  Even by the account  of her own surveyor, the damage to the 
subject property is the result of erosion  of granular material from the subsoil. And the same 
Ref: DRN95451762surveyor says that the term subsidence is employed to describe a change in the properties 
of the subsoil beneath a property which causes downward movement of the foundation. So 
it follows that even  by the surveyors own evidence,  its reasonable to describe the damage 
caused by Mrs Ls property as being due to subsidence  the leak has caused  a change in 
the properties of the subsoil by it being  eroded. 
Mrs L also points to a Certificate of Structural Adequacy  issued after the main repairs  to the 
property were completed. This says that the damage has been  caused by an escape of 
water. So she says this is how the claim should be recorded. But it seems to me that the 
certificate is intended to give the reasons why the subsidence occurred, rather  than indicate  
how an insurance claim should be properly recorded. 
Ive also considered the policy terms and conditions here. Subsidence in the policy  is defined  
as Downward movement of the ground  beneath the buildings  not due to the weight of the 
buildings This is, based on the evidence available to me, whats  happened here. And the 
policy specifically states that any escape  of water causing subsidence  wont be covered  
under the escape of water section,  but would considered under the subsidence section  of 
cover. An escape of water has caused subsidence  as defined by the policy. So St Andrews 
actions in recording this as a subsidence claim is in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions.
So I conclude that St Andrews  acted  reasonably when it recorded a subsidence claim on 
Mrs Ls policy. And so it was entitled to apply the relevant terms and conditions  for a 
subsidence claim to the claim and policy.
St Andrews  recorded  two claims on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE).  This is a 
database containing information shared between insurers giving details of claims. The 
claims were  the subsidence claim Ive mentioned  above, and a claim for accidental  damage 
to underground pipes. It said it did so because of the distance  between the damaged  pipes 
and the subsidence. 
Our investigator thought that only one claim should  be recorded. St Andrews has agreed 
with this. I agree this is a fair outcome.  Its accepted that the subsidence was caused by the 
damaged pipes, so I dont  think its fair for two claims to be recorded. The number of claims 
recorded against the policy could  have an impact if Mrs L seeks  insurance with another 
insurer.
I understand that since issuing its final response to her complaint, St Andrews has made a 
cash settlement offer to Mrs L for the snagging works which remain outstanding.  If Mrs L is 
unhappy with this offer, or has evidence  that the costs of carrying  out the required works  are 
going to be more than has been offered, she needs to direct  this to St Andrews in the first 
instance.
St Andrews  admitted there have  been delays during the claim, and has offered £125  as 
compensation for this. Our investigator thought that £200 was a more  appropriate  figure and 
so said the amount paid by St Andrews should  be increased by £75. 
It seems  to me that there was a period of around  two months where  little meaningful  
progress was made on the claim between a meeting at Mrs Ls property and an offer to 
settle the claim being made. In addition,  the repairs took a period of five weeks but its 
agreed that they were relatively minor  in nature, with no explanation being  given for why they 
took this long to complete. 
Ref: DRN95451763So I think its fair to say there were avoidable delays  during the claim, and I agree with our 
investigator that £200 in total as compensation is appropriate to recognise the inconvenience 
caused to Mrs L by these  delays.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, I order  St 
Andrews Insurance  Plc:
Update the records on CUE to reflect that one claim has been  made.
Pay a further  £75 compensation, making £200  in total. St Andrews must pay this 
within 28 days of us telling it that Mrs L accepts our decision. If it does not, then it 
must pay interest at a rate of 8% simple  per year from that date to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2021.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9545176