K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy in October 2001.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a plan known as a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan (TMPP). TMPP 
can be split into three  sections: Mortgage Repayments Cover (which  is a form of MPPI), Life 
Cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC). Mr and Mrs S only bought  MPPI and Life Cover  
they didnt take out CIC. Mr and Mrs S have complained about the plan.
The policy cost just over £40 each month and it covered Mr S in the event he lost his job and 
was unemployed  or couldnt work due to an accident or sickness.  It wouldve provided a 
monthly benefit of £683.47 for up to 24 months  following  a successful claim. The life element 
of the policy  covered both Mr S and Mrs S and provided cover  of £19,000 if either  one of 
them should  die.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case. Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think its likely  Halifax  made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the MPPI 
and Life Cover and they chose to purchase the policy  although I can understand if they 
cant remember this given how long ago it was.
I havent been able to look at all the paperwork from the time the policy was sold but I 
dont think this is surprising given how long ago the sale took place. However,  I do know 
that the way the plan was presented in 2001 showed that it was optional,  and that a 
customer needed to agree  for a policy to be set up. 
Mr and Mrs S say it wasnt clear the policy was optional.  And, if itd been clear, they 
wouldnt have taken  it out. But their recollections  of the sale arent detailed and so I 
havent been able to understand how they werent  given  a choice to have the policy  by 
Halifax. Taking this into account  along  with sample  documentation Ive seen and what I 
know about how these  sales  were conducted, Im satisfied  the policy was optional  and I 
think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs S were given a choice  about the MPPI and Life 
Cover.
Halifax recommended the plan to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check  that the MPPI was 
right for them and, based on what Ive seen of them circumstances  at the time,  I think  
that it was. For example, Mr S wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
MPPI cover  he told us he was employed  and in good health.
Mr S was working  at the time and he says he had some occupational benefits from his 
employers if he was off work sick  13 weeks sick pay. But this doesnt  automatically 
Ref: DRN97494692mean that the policy was unsuitable. This is because if he were unable  to work, the 
MPPI was intended to remove the additional pressure  of maintaining mortgage 
repayments, at what  would likely be a difficult time.  And this wouldve been important to 
Mr and Mrs S as Mr S was the main wage earner  and mortgage paperwork suggests that 
he and Mrs S had three dependents  living with them  in the property.
Also, the mortgage was for 12 years and the MPPI wouldve helped to pay the monthly 
mortgage costs  for up to 24 months for each successful claim  and on top of any other 
cover they had. So I dont think Mr S existing work  benefits wouldve made the MPPI 
unsuitable. And I think it was reasonable of Halifax to recommend it to them.
Mr and Mrs S already had some life cover - £70,000 of cover  through  two endowment  
policies, but they were increasing their overall indebtedness to £89,000  so I dont think it 
was wrong of Halifax to recommend additional life cover of £19,000. I say this because if 
either Mr S or Mrs S died then the life cover  would  have meant the mortgage would have 
been repaid and the other person  and their dependents  would have been  able to 
continue living  in the property, without having to worry about  making  the mortgage 
repayments. Even if this wasnt an issue, having life cover would have made  things 
easier for their family to sort out if either  died.
Its possible  the information Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs S about the MPPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out to protect  themselves  so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S said, but these points dont change my decision. 
This means  I dont  think the plan was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything  
Mr and Mrs S paid for it. But Halifax has already given Mr and Mrs S back  some of the cost 
of the MPPI. I dont  think it needs to do anything  more.  
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9749469