K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Silver 
account in May 2012.
Mr S says that he was not provided with information  about the benefits  provided with the 
account and how to use them. He also says that the Silver account was presented  as being 
the only accessible option. 
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and he didnt  think the Silver account had 
been mis-sold. Mr Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment and asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive used that to help me to 
decide this case.
I think it might help to explain that where  matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, I 
have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened based on the evidence  that is 
available.
Mr S says that the Silver  account was presented as the only option available. Whereas 
Lloyds says it offered  a range of accounts,  including ones without a monthly fee and says 
that it provided Mr S with information about  the range  of accounts it offered after the sale 
and Mr S chose to keep  the Silver account.
In the information Mr Ss representative sent to us, he says that he wasnt told that there was 
a monthly account  fee. However, Mr S has also said that he was told about  the account  fee. 
This to me suggests that Mr S cannot recall  what exactly was discussed during the sale, 
although given  that it happened  over 7 years  ago I think that is understandable. 
Nevertheless, as Mr S has provided conflicting  testimony about what  was said during the 
sale of the packaged account,  I cant reasonably  conclude that he was more likely than not 
misled into thinking  that he had to have a Silver account. So I think  its more  likely that Mr S 
was aware that fee-free  accounts were available,  and he chose to open  a Silver account 
knowing he didnt have  to have one.
Lloyds recommended the Silver account  to Mr S. This meant it had to make sure the account  
was right for Mr S.
At the time the Silver account cost £9.95 per month, and provided European travel 
insurance, breakdown  cover, mobile phone insurance and card protection.  It also offered 
other benefits including a £50 interest  free overdraft facility. I appreciate that Mr S might  not 
have needed all of the account features, but as the account was sold as a package, Mr S 
was not able to pick and choose the benefits it came  with.     
Ref: DRN92128162Nevertheless, Mr S has said that he occasionally  travelled to Europe and the Silver account 
was the cheapest account to provide European travel  insurance. Therefore, I think that 
recommending the account to him was not unreasonable in the circumstances. As well as 
making sure that the account was right for Mr S, Lloyds also had to give him important 
information about the account and associated benefits.
Mr S says he wasnt aware of the account  benefits,  let alone given information about  them.  
However, Mr S called the breakdown cover  provider in 2015.  This leads me to think  that he 
was given information about the account benefits and how to use them. And although  Mr S 
says he had his own breakdown cover, given  that he called the breakdown  cover  provider  on 
the Silver  account,  he was clearly aware of the cover  on the account. So I dont  think  that the 
duplication in breakdown  cover that Mr S had was caused by anything that Lloyds did wrong.
I appreciate that Mr S might not have been  given  all of the important information  about the 
account benefits. But Ive not seen anything about  his circumstances that makes me think  he 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Silver  account had he been given more 
information about it.
So I dont  think that the Silver account was mis-sold  to Mr S. I therefore  think it would be 
inappropriate to required Lloyds  to refund Mr S the account fees hes paid for the Silver 
account.     
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9212816