K820x#14complaint
Mr A says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mr A bought the policy at a meeting in 1997 at the same  time as taking a hire-purchase 
agreement. He was employed  at the time as a maintenance supervisor and immediately 
before that job he had been self-employed. From  what Mr A has told us, he was entitled to 
no more than statutory  sick pay and didnt have anything else to pay his hire-purchase 
agreement with if he couldnt work.  
Mr A has told us he was off work for around six weeks with a broken bone  or bones. From 
what hes told us about this, it happened a little over six months before the sale and he was 
employed at the time. He hasnt told us of having  had any other  health  conditions or health  
issues before the sale.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  the monthly repayment of Mr As agreement in 
the event of Mr A being unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The life 
cover would, subject to its terms, clear the balance on death.  
From what  AXA has told us, the policy cost around £4 a month. The premium  would  still 
have to be paid in the event of a successful claim. Mr As representative has made  lengthy  
and substantial representations on his behalf.  Ill not restate them all here,  but I have read 
and considered them all carefully. In summary,  Mr As representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr A wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr As representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mr A about the 
poor value; 
Ref: DRN92813392The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr A and the impact they would 
have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr A received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN92813393The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the Code said: As a condition of membership of the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
AXA was a member  of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the
finance and leasing  industry. Section 4 of the code covered  Credit  Protection
Insurance. 
As Ive explained, AXA was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not AXA  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of AXA. 
So I am satisfied it is right I should take these codes  into account when deciding  what  is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mr As case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  I am also required to take into account what  
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
AXA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance  
when considering Mr As complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN92813394-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether AXA gave  Mr A sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr A, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr A suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr A and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr A know  he had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. The credit agreement  Mr A signed  for the 
hire-purchase had a separate  Protection For Your Payments section  where the PPI was 
offered  with a box to mark if the PPI was wanted. Above the box it said:  If you would like 
cover please  ensure  that your instructions  are clearly indicated  by a mark in the box.  Next to 
the box it said: Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment Protection Insurance. 
On Mr As agreement, the PPI box was marked. The mark is printed, like other details on the 
form such as the details of what Mr A was buying. Mr A has said he had no interest  in PPI 
and has said it was just included as part of the package. Ive thought about this carefully. 
I think it likely the printed details on the form, such as like Mr As purchases  and the mark in 
the PPI box, reflect the choices Mr A made during or before the meeting, before the form 
was printed for him to sign.  In any case,  the details on the form wouldve been  visible when 
Mr A signed  it. Also, given what was said above and next to the PPI box, I think  it likely  Mr A 
wouldve known that the PPI box should  be marked if he wanted the cover  and that if he 
didnt want the cover the box for it shouldnt be marked. Also, Mr A hasnt said anything  to 
make me think AXA pressured him into opting for the cover.
With all this in mind, on balance taking everything  into account, I think its more likely Mr A 
knew the policy was optional and agreed  to take it without undue pressure.
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Taking  into account also what  Mr A has 
said, Im persuaded  AXA didnt provided advice. This means AXA didnt have to check if the 
PPI was suitable for Mr A.
Instead, AXA had to give Mr A sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his attention 
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy 
and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Ref: DRN92813395The PPI part of Mr As credit agreement said the PPI: covers your Account payments in the 
event of sickness, accident, involuntary unemployment or loss of life  which  wouldve given 
an indication  of what the PPI was for. It also said: Please debit my Account with the relevant 
premium until further notice  - which wouldve indicated the PPI wasnt free. Likewise, below 
where the credit repayment amounts were set out, above where Mr A signed,  the agreement  
said: If you have Payment Protection Insurance for your Account an additional payment will 
be required  and will be notified to you on your statement . 
I think its unlikely Mr A wouldve taken  the policy without any sense of what  it was for and of 
how much  the premium might be. So with this and all Ive said above in mind, Im satisfied 
its likely  Mr A was given  a broad description of what the PPI was intended to do (protect his 
payments in case of accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  
But the evidence  from the time doesnt tell us whether AXA gave sufficient information about  
the actual benefit, the actual cost or the exclusions or limitations before Mr A agreed to the 
policy. So I dont think AXA gave him sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr As representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr As. I have considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr As representative  considers  to be poor  value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr A about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr As representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think it is unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr A has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mr A? To what extent did he suffer loss 
or damage as a result?
Ive found AXA did not do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to Mr A. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  he suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not he would have still 
Ref: DRN92813396taken the policy,  had AXA done things  properly. He says he would not have  taken it and 
believes I should presume  this to be the case given the significant  failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr A had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr A chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude 
he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mr A thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr A has suffered any loss or detriment. 
It doesnt appear AXA told Mr A the exact premium  at the point he applied, but I consider it 
likely he knew  hed have to pay for the cover, and unlikely he wouldve taken it without  some  
idea of the approximate cost. Also he was told the amount of the monthly payment without 
PPI - so if, when he was told the actual PPI cost or started to pay his monthly payment, the 
cost had been significantly at odds with his expectations at the sale, he mightve raised this 
with AXA at the time or reconsidered his decision. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr A wouldve found the cost unacceptable if hed been  given  the 
exact figure during the meeting in which  he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  AXA made clear exactly  what Mr A would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely his expectations  about  what 
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his payments 
under the hire-purchase agreement)  were significantly different to what the PPI actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr A thought hed bought  and what  
he actually bought, were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  that in the 12 months before the 
policy start Mr A knew about  or ought  reasonably  to have known  about  or had sought or 
received advice or treatment for from any medical practitioner;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr A wasnt  
a permanent employee; 
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr A be stopped from doing his 
own job or any similar job the insurer reasonably thought he was or may reasonably  
have become qualified to do when  considering  his training, education and ability; and
For disability and unemployment, the policy protected payments for up to 12 months, 
rather than the remaining  loan term, and cover would end when Mr A turned 65 (or 
retired if earlier).
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr A pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  mightve  dissuaded some consumers 
in slightly different circumstances from Mr A from taking  the policy.  
Ref: DRN92813397But, the evidence  about Mr As circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
Mr A couldnt have claimed  for work absences related to the injury hed had earlier  in the 
year but, taking into account  all hes told us about  this, Im not persuaded he wouldve 
thought he was at much  risk of missing  work  in future due to that past issue  - so I dont think 
he wouldve placed  much  weight on that in his decision. He didnt have  any other health 
issues the policy wouldve  excluded, and I havent  seen evidence  to suggest he wouldve 
been caught by any of the other significant  exclusions  he was in permanent  employment, 
for example. So, with all this in mind, I think he still had some  good reasons to take the PPI.
If Mr A had known he could only claim for disability if he were not only unable to do his own 
job but also unable  to do any similar job the insurer reasonably thought  he was or may 
reasonably have become qualified to do when considering  his training, education and ability,  
this might have played into Mr As thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given 
him pause for thought  - although its possible he may not have been overly  concerned  given 
that if he were unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation, the chances  that 
he would  be able to take up a similar  occupation  would also,  in all probability,  be limited.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr A might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr A 
from taking the policy,  Mr A, in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
AXA may not have  told Mr A any claim he made  would be limited to 12 months. This may 
have differed from what he expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months was longer  
than Mr A wouldve received full pay for if he was were sick - and his redundancy entitlement  
was also likely significantly less than 12 months  income. Taking everything into account, I 
consider it likely Mr A would still have thought PPI that paid the loan payments for up to 12 
months would  be of benefit  if he couldnt  work in the circumstances the policy covered.
Mr A has complained he became ineligible to claim on the policy  during its term when he 
turned 65. The disability  and unemployment cover would end when Mr A permanently retired 
or age 65 if earlier. But Mr A was in his mid-forties at the sale,  the credit  agreement was due 
to end no later than his early fifties and the policy would end if the credit agreement ended. 
So, having  considered all hes said about this, I think it likely Mr A wouldve still thought  hed 
get some  value from having the policy - as it wouldve covered him for disability and 
unemployment during the finance term and for a reasonable  period before he turned 65.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr A wouldve still taken the policy. It was sufficiently close to what  its likely  he thought 
he was getting,  and it provided  benefits  that would help him manage the consequences were  
he made redundant or unable  to work  through accident or sickness.  In the circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not Mr A wouldve taken the policy  in any event, notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN92813398Mr As representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr A would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr A 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr A in the position he wouldve been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. Thats because, while I accept its possible  he would not have taken  the 
policy, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he wouldve still taken 
the policy had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about  the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude AXA should pay Mr A compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done.
Im also aware Mr A thinks  AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mr A, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr As representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr A and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
Ref: DRN92813399and reasonable to put Mr A in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done.
Im grateful  to Mr A for his courtesy  and for his assistance in providing  prompt answers to all 
the enquiries weve made of him.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9281339