K820x#14complaint
Mr J complained that Aviva Insurance  Limited  settled another  drivers claim against his 
motor insurance policy.  
background 
Aviva heard from a third party who said theyd been involved in an accident with Mr J and it 
was Mr Js fault. Aviva investigated this, settled the other drivers claim and recorded it as a 
fault claim against Mr J.
Mr J complained to Aviva.  They felt that they had acted reasonably on the evidence  they had 
and that they were  entitled to settle his case and treat it as a fault claim against his policy. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Aviva had done anything wrong.  Mr J remained  unhappy and so his case has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  explained to Mr J, we dont  decide who is at fault for causing  an accident, 
as this is the role of the courts. Instead,  our role in complaints of this kind is to investigate  
whether an insurer  has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their policys  terms and 
conditions when they made  their decision as regards who was responsible. Its a common 
term in motor insurance policies to allow  an insurer to settle any claim against  his policy as 
they see fit, and so Aviva can do this whether  Mr J agrees with it or not. Insurers are entitled 
to make a commercial decision about  whether  its reasonable for them to contest a claim in 
court or better for them  to settle  it. 
In about July 2018 Aviva received a claim on Mr Js policy from a third party who said theyd 
been in an accident with Mr J in 2017. At first Aviva disputed liability. They contacted  Mr J 
about the matter  and got their agents  to meet him and obtain his account of the accident. 
The agents  met Mr J in August 2018.  He denied being insured with Aviva,  or that Aviva  had 
contacted him. He also denied having  been  in any accident, and wouldnt give the agents a 
statement or let them  take any photographs of his car to see if it had any damage.
Mr J did later accept  that Aviva were  his insurer, but he continued to say that he hadn't been 
in any accident  and couldnt  remember anything. His wife remembered an incident  which  he 
said that they hadnt reported because there wasnt any damage to either car. But this didnt 
seem to be the incident that the third party was claiming about.
Aviva said that his policy required that Mr J report all accidents to them as soon as possible 
and then co-operate  with their investigations.  They felt that they had given him reasonable 
time to do that. So they said that they would have to consider the evidence from the claimant 
without further  recourse to him, and deal with it as a claim on his policy. They told him that 
this would affect his no claims discount and that they might  try to recover from him any 
monies they had to pay due to his failure  to co-operate.
Ref: DRN91581772Mr J remembered  another  incident.  He said it was an incident, but not an accident. He 
described the incident, denied the other partys account of events and said that the other  
driver had been to blame. He also said that they had checked each others vehicles and 
there was no damage but that the claimant  and others had demanded money from him at 
the scene.
He admitted not having co-operated with Avivas agents at first. But he said that was 
because he was suspicious  of them  in case he was being the victim of a fraud.  He also said 
that it was about  a year after the incident  and hed forgotten about it by then. So he didnt 
think that his failure to co-operate with Avivas agents was unreasonable.  And he felt that 
Aviva should  have given him more time to comment before they settled his claim. But I think  
its clear that Aviva  did give Mr J reasonable time to comment. I dont think  that it was 
Avivas fault if they didnt  contact Mr J about  until about a year after the incident. He didnt 
tell them  about  it, and so they didnt know about it until the third party claimed. This would 
have reduced their time and opportunity to investigate it right away. However,  once they did 
hear about it, they started to protect  Mr Js interests  and investigate it promptly by having 
their agents  contact Mr J. But he didnt cooperate. 
Aviva noted  that the other party  had Mr Js name and address, saying theyd exchanged 
those at the scene,  and they had described  him. The other driver gave an account of the 
incident, and also gave Aviva an engineers report of damage to the vehicle that was 
consistent with their account of events. When the other driver  threatened court  action, Aviva 
felt that Mr Js early failure to co-operate with them, and his claimed  inability to remember 
events, affected the credibility of his evidence.  So they decided that they were unlikely to be 
able to successfully  defend the other drivers  claim if it went  to court and they settled it. 
Under his policy, Aviva  do have the right to do that, and I dont think that they were 
unreasonable. So I cant say that Aviva hadnt done  enough before they settled to 
investigate or to give him enough opportunity to give his side of the story. I think that Aviva  
had thoroughly reviewed  the evidence and had allowed  him to fully explain his account of 
events. And so I think that Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in settling the case  as they did, 
when they did, and they havent done  anything  wrong. This means  that I dont ask them to 
do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9158177