K820x#14complaint
Ms N has complained about the mis-sale of a mobile  phone insurance policy by Allianz 
Insurance Plc.
background
Ms N bought a phone and airtime  contract in 2016,  she says she phoned a number of times  
over the next two years to query why the direct debit she was paying for this was so high. 
She says she discovered in February 2018 that it was because  she was also paying £10 per 
month for mobile phone insurance. Ms N says she didnt ask for, or want insurance and it 
was added without  her consent.  Ms N cancelled the policy and asked Allianz  to refund the 
premiums she had paid of around £240.
Allianz denies the policy was mis-sold.  It says that Ms N was sent a Welcome Pack in 
January 2016,  which set out the insurance details but it is unable to find a recording of the 
telephone call during which the policy was sold. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. Initially he upheld the complaint but he 
changed his mind and determined that there was not enough evidence  the policy had been 
mis-sold. 
Ms N doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been referred to me. 
Ms N has made a number  of submissions, which  Ive summarised  below:
 
she had mobile  phone insurance cover  with her bank account for the two years  that 
she had an airtime contract. 
She has never asked  for insurance before  with any of the previous contracts and so 
why would she do so this time? 
She was never given  access to an itemised bill and never received the welcome 
letter.
She called  the company that sold the airtime contract, and insurance  to her on behalf 
of Allianz, at least 12 times over the 24 month  contract period and it hid elements of 
her bill from her. She didnt think she needed  to ask for an itemised bill to double-
check what it was telling  her. 
She is still with the same airtime  provider  now but has insurance for her phone from 
an alternative provider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is little evidence  about what information  was provided at the time Ms N took out the 
airtime contract  and the insurance  was added to her contract. It appears to be accepted that 
the arrangements were  made over the telephone when  Ms N called to upgrade  her phone.   
Allianz has provided a script that its representatives  use when discussing the insurance over 
the phone. 
As there is no telephone recording, there is no independent evidence that the script was 
adhered to, however, it does carry some  weight. The script provides that the representative 
would discuss the insurance policy generally and then if the customer was interested in 
Ref: DRN95685492taking it, the representative would read out verbatim  all the significant details of the 
insurance, including the premium  and how to claim. Allianz has also provided  a copy of the 
insurance welcome letter that it says was sent to Ms N in January 2016.  This confirms that 
insurance cover is in place and the amount of the monthly premium.  
Ms N says she didnt receive  the welcome letter but I am satisfied it was sent. She also says 
queried the bills at least 12 times over the 24 months the policy  was in place, as they were 
higher than she was expecting. Other than a call to verify the bank account being used for 
the direct  debit payments, theres  no record  of any other queries about  the bills. Allianz  has 
provided screen shots of its files for Ms N, so I have no reason to doubt what  it says about 
this.
Ms N has provided her bank statements which show that the payment taken for the 
insurance is wrapped up in the payment for the airtime contract as well. It appears  as: EE + 
T- Mobile and so it is not clear from this that it includes  also a payment  for insurance cover. 
I can see why this may not have alerted her to the fact she was also paying for an insurance 
policy.  
However, Ms N was also provided  with a monthly bill. The bills are clearer and set out the 
phone charges and also the insurance charge as: full cover  £10.00. I think  this is 
sufficiently clear.
I understand the bills are only apparently  viewable online. Allianz  says Ms N would  have 
opted for this, rather than paper bills to be sent to her. Allianz is unable to confirm  if these 
bills were looked at by Ms N. She says she never received any itemised bills. However, if 
she failed to look at them this is not something  for which Allianz can be held responsible.  
Most consumers would expect to receive a bill in some form. As Ms N says she was 
concerned her bills were as high as they were,  this is something  it would have been  
reasonable for her to have checked and/or asked to see. Whilst this on its own, doesnt  
prove that the policy was not mis-sold to her, it does mean  that she did in my opinion  have 
the opportunity  to check what  she was paying for and query the insurance  charge. She did 
not do so until two years later.
Overall there is not enough evidence to support that the policy  was mis-sold. It is not that I 
have any reason to doubt what Ms N has said but given the documentary evidence  that is 
available and the lack of any other evidence supporting a mis-sale,  I am unable to conclude  
that Allianz should refund all the premiums. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9568549