K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a credit card.
background
Mr M says he expected to be given  a credit card with a £5,000 credit limit and 0% interest for 
three years. But he was given a credit limit of only £2,500. The promotional  offer was later 
dropped and he didnt have an interest free credit card as a payment wasnt made  on time. 
Hes unhappy he couldnt make a balance transfer  onto the card and that Lloyds didnt set 
up a direct debit for the payments. He wants Lloyds to put him back into the position he 
shouldve been  in if itd given him what he expected.
Lloyds accepted it hadnt set up a direct debit  as it shouldve. It offered £75 compensation for 
this. Itd also offered  to refund  £110.98  for the interest and charges Mr M had incurred and 
reinstated the promotional offer. It suggested he should participate in another  financial 
review to increase  his credit limit. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Lloyds has accepted it made an error  by not setting up the direct debit. But its now 
put Mr M back  in the position he wouldve been in if the error hadnt been  made.  
Thats fair.
The credit  limit given to Mr M wasnt what he expected. But asking for an amount 
when applying for the card doesnt mean that limit that will be given. Mr M had logged  
into his online account and shouldve noticed the lower limit much earlier than he did. 
It wouldnt be fair to ask Lloyds to do anything more about this. It also wasnt  Lloyds' 
fault that the balance transfer  didnt go the way Mr M expected.
Mr M has asked  for an ombudsman review. He remains unhappy that he hasnt been 
provided with a £5,000 credit limit and says this has had an effect on his financial position 
and health.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
I understand Mr Ms frustration at not being  given the credit  limit hed expected. But the 
simple fact is Lloyds is entitled to consider  the information given and available at the time of 
a credit card application when deciding whether to lend money to a customer and what  credit 
limit to give.  Here it decided a credit  limit of £2,500 was appropriate and not the £5,000 Mr M 
wanted. Its also entitled to decide  whether or not to agree to a balance transfer. 
Those are examples of Lloyds exercising  its commercial  judgement,  as its entitled to do. 
And they arent  something  in which  we would normally get involved in. Consequently I cant 
now require Lloyds to give Mr M a credit limit of £5,000 as hed like. 
Ref: DRN99393662But I note Lloyds suggested Mr M might like to take part in a financial review  to see whether 
it could increase his credit  limit although  it made clear that isnt guaranteed.  That seems  fair.
Lloyds has accepted it made an error  in not setting up a direct  debit as it shouldve. But I 
think its payment of compensation, refund of interest and charges and reinstatement of the 
promotional offer are fair. 
I appreciate Lloyds decisions have clearly had quite an effect on Mr M. Even  so, taking 
everything into account, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require it to now do or pay any 
thing more than its already  done.  
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ms strength of feeling, I dont see any compelling  reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9939366