K821x#15complaint
Mrs L says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Mrs L was sold a PPI policy when she applied for a store card in 2001. 
Mrs L refers to having a medical condition when she was sold the cover and also says she 
was under the care of a specialist.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ls complaint didnt think  FICL made it clear to her the 
PPI didnt cover accident and sickness  claims caused by her medical conditions. And our 
adjudicator didnt think Mrs L wouldve bought the PPI if this had been made clear. 
FICL says Mrs Ls condition can be manageable and, if it was unlikely to cause her to have 
enough time off work for her to claim on the policy, may not have affected her decision  to 
buy it. So Mrs Ls complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Mrs L enough clear  information about  the PPI so she could make an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And I think if FICL had given Mrs L the clear information it shouldve, she wouldnt have 
bought the PPI.
Its likely  the policy Mrs L was sold wouldnt have  covered her for accident and sickness 
claims caused by any medical condition she had when  she bought it. Mrs L says she was 
diagnosed with a medical condition when she was 24. She says she took medication for the 
condition and was also under the care of a specialist. Its not clear from what Mrs L says 
whether the care she says the specialist  gave was connected to the medical condition she 
specified or to an unconnected condition. 
But Mrs L has been consistent in what shes told us about her health  at the time she bought 
the PPI. And she also mentioned an unspecified  medical condition  when she first 
complained to FICL about the sale of the PPI, but FICL didnt ask her any questions  about it. 
As Ive already  noted, in response to our adjudicators view on Mrs Ls complaint,  FICL 
questions whether Mrs Ls condition wouldve stopped her going ahead  with the policy. 
Based on what Mrs L says about  her conditions and the other information Ive seen (which  in 
terms of FICLs own investigation is quite  limited),  I think  the exclusion its likely the policy 
had for accident  and sickness  claims arising  from known medical conditions wouldve  
Ref: DRN93157662mattered to Mrs L. But there was no information  about it on the application form she signed.  
And I havent seen  anything else to show me FICL made it clear to Mrs L at the time.
I dont think its likely  Mrs L wouldve gone ahead with the PPI if shed known she wasnt 
likely to be covered if shed needed time off work because of her medical  conditions.  It 
follows that I think Mrs L has lost out because of what FICL has done  wrong  and so it should 
put things right.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs L in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs L wouldve owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs L owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs L wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs L would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs L paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs L 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Mrs L what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs L a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN93157663my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct  Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9315766