K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr S took receipt of a used car in April 2017. He financed  the deal through a hire purchase  
agreement with FCA. The car was three years old and had already completed  a little over 
28,000 miles.
Mr S has had problems with the car. In August 2017 the Engine Management Light (EML) 
illuminated and the dealership replaced  a temperature  sensor.  In June  2018  Mr S said the 
problem was back. He booked the car into the dealership but they were unable  to replicate 
the problem. However,  in August 2018 when Mr S returned the car to them again they did 
identify the problem and again  replaced the temperature sensor.
But Mr S says this didnt fix the problem so he complained to FCA. They explained that a 
used vehicle could  not be expected to be free of faults and they noted that the problem 
hadnt impacted  on Mr Ss use of the car. So they didnt  uphold his complaint  and Mr S 
therefore referred it to this service.
Our adjudicator noted that the fault first occurred after only four months.  He spoke to the 
dealership who accepted  that the current  problem may have been present at the point the 
car was supplied to Mr S and he thought that was most  likely.  He explained that FCA were  
responsible for the quality of the car when it was supplied and he thought,  as the repairs had 
clearly been unsuccessful,  FCA should  allow Mr S to reject  the car; return  his deposit  and 
pay him £250 in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience that had been  caused.
FCA didnt agree with the adjudicator. They said the car now seemed to be working 
satisfactorily and they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint FCA so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN92466012The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then FCA, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr S. The car here 
was around three years  old and had travelled 28,349 miles. Whilst Id expect a little wear 
and tear on a vehicle  of that age I dont think it would be fair to suggest it would be of 
acceptable quality  if supplied with a persistent fault causing an engine  warning light to 
illuminate.
Im persuaded that this fault was most likely  developing  at the point of supply as I note Mr S 
reported it to the dealership after only a few months  of ownership. The fault was then not 
reported again until June 2018 but I think,  on balance,  as the very same temperature  sensor  
was replaced; Mr S reported  the same  symptoms and the dealership  have suggested it is 
feasible the fault was present from the beginning; that the repair  was ultimately 
unsuccessful.
Relevant legislation allows  a business one chance to repair a fault that is present, or 
developing, at the point  of supply. Im persuaded that FCA had this opportunity in August 
2017 but that repair hasnt  worked and they should therefore allow Mr S to reject the car and 
terminate his finance agreement with them. 
Its this services usual practice  to tell the business to also refund any deposit paid so that 
the consumer  has money  to fund a deposit  on a replacement vehicle. I see no reason to 
depart from that here. 
Mr S has clearly  been inconvenienced  by matters. Hes had to return his car on several 
occasions to the dealership and hes been  let down by their inability to resolve the issue. 
Hes also had to embark on a lengthy  complaint process and, in the circumstances, I would 
agree with our adjudicator that FCA should  pay him £250 top compensate him for his 
experiences.
I do note that Mr S has been  able to cover about  10,000 miles a year in his car. The mileage 
limit set on his agreement was 8,000, so Im not persuaded to make  an award for lack of use 
as it appears Mr S has had reasonable use of the car.
Ref: DRN92466013my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FCA Automotive  Services  
UK Ltd to:
terminate the finance  agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund  Mr Ss deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit  file;
pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9246601