K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he entered into a lease agreement  for a used car with Arval UK Limited 
(Arval) making it clear to the broker, and prior to the agreement,  that he wanted the car to 
have a built in working SatNav system. After he took delivery he found the SatNav  wasnt  up 
to date and he wants Arval to pay for the necessary upgrade.
background
In 2018, Mr P, on behalf of his limited company, entered into a lease agreement for a used  
car manufactured in 2013. He said in his email complaint to this service  dated 
3 January 2019 that in no uncertain  terms that he stated the car had to have a built in 
working SatNav amongst other things. He noticed  after two days  that the SatNav  system 
was out of date and raised this with Arval as he was seeking an assurance that it would be 
updated at no cost to him.
Arval issued their final response  to the effect that updates for the SatNav system were  not 
covered under the terms and conditions  of the contract for a used  car, and were  treated like 
any other consumable  item. Thus, they said it was Mr Ps responsibility not theirs. 
Mr P was unhappy with Arvals response  and so the investigator looked into the complaint  
but didnt think  Arval had acted unfairly. As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint has been  
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate.  Im not the industry regulator, and I dont have power  
to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they change  their processes, or punish  
them. That is for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I will consider  whether Arval acted  fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr P. I aim to 
address all relevant  points  with a view to reaching  a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. I take into account both sides  views.  But, where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come  to a decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
On Mr Ps initial email complaint on the 3 January 2019 he said he had told the broker that 
he wanted the car he leased to have  a built in working SatNav.  It would seem  from what  he 
has said that it did. The problem was that it wasnt up to date. 
I have noted that in Mr Ps later hand  written complaint dated the 12 January 2019 his 
complaint changed slightly  in stating  that when agreeing to the lease he had stated he 
wanted a working  SatNav that was upto date and built into the car. 
After Mr P had received  the investigators view, the investigator invited Mr P to supply further 
evidence that it had been agreed prior to the lease  that the car would have an updated  
SatNav. No further  evidence has been received however.
Ref: DRN97746052I have looked  at the leasing  contract and it is silent about the SatNav system. 
Mr Ps argument is that he had made  it expressly  clear to the broker that the car had to have 
an updated SatNav system, yet this was not then made a part of the agreement.  Whilst it is 
not unusual for a party to a contract  to make such a verbal demand and then not have it put 
into the contract,  the very fact that it is not suggests that the parties  did not want  to make  it a 
binding term. Alternatively,  that the party seeking that term did not ultimately deem  it so 
important as to insist on its inclusion. 
So I come back to the point that in this case Mr P has changed  his position from saying that 
all he initially wanted was a working built in SatNav,  to saying that he wanted an upto date 
one. And despite  Mr P saying he knew that there was an individual  from the brokers  who 
would support his view,  no such  evidence  has been forthcoming. 
So, on a balance of probabilities I think what has happened here is that Mr P has asked for a 
car with a working  built in SatNav, which  is what in fact he received. I am not satisfied that 
there is any evidence  to lead me to conclude that he specifically asked for an updated  
SatNav.
As such,  and although Mr P will probably  be disappointed with my decision,  I have come to 
the same  conclusion as the investigator. 
So I cant say Arval  have  acted unfairly  and Im not upholding  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Arval UK Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9774605