K821x#15complaint
Mrs M on behalf of Mr T and Mr T has complained about the amount  offered  by a syndicate  
at Society of Lloyds (SOL) in settlement of a flood claim  under a home insurance policy. 
Shes also complained  about the way SOL handled  their claim.
background
The policy is in the name of Mr T and Mr T but effectively  SOL has only been dealing  with 
Mrs M throughout the claim. 
Mrs M made  a claim to SOL after alterations to a neighbouring  property caused  water to 
build up against  one of the walls  of the insured property. The property is built of cob, a 
natural building material made  from soil, water, something fibrous like straw and sometimes  
lime.
After SOL accepted the claim, it appointed a loss adjuster  to handle it. They appointed a 
surveyor. The surveyor agreed a schedule of works drawn up by a builder. Mrs M signed a 
mandate authorising the builder to start work.
Work began on stripping  out and drying the property. It soon became clear that the repairs 
were more complicated than had first appeared. Mrs M asked SOL to agree to her 
appointing a specialist on cob buildings to advise  on the repairs needed. SOL agreed.  The 
specialist advised  that one wall of the property needed to be completely rebuilt.  He drew up 
a schedule of repairs and obtained  three quotes.
The quotes  to repair the property were  considerably  more than the sum insured  (£215,000)  
under the policy.  SOL said the property had been insured for far less than it would cost to 
rebuild it. SOL offered to pay Mr T and Mr T £225,975.97 in full and final settlement of their 
entire claim  for buildings,  contents and alternative  accommodation. In respect  of the 
buildings part of the claim the offer was based on the sum insured of £215,000 less costs  of 
£25,363.08 already incurred by SOL. Mrs M accepted  that offer on the basis  that she could 
still bring a complaint to this service.
The property was sold in its unrepaired  state. Mrs M said they had to do that because  they 
couldnt live in it and SOL was going to stop paying for them to stay elsewhere. She thought  
SOL should  have reinstated the property or offered the full market  value  of £285,000.
Mrs M also complained to SOL that her health had suffered from the build-up  of mould and 
dust in the property. SOL said there was no evidence of this.
 
Mrs M brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said if 
a repair  has started, it should be finished.  She thought SOL had started the repair  because it 
had stripped the walls.  She didnt think it was fair of SOL to deduct the costs it had incurred 
from the sum insured. She said SOL should pay a further £25,363.08  to settle  the claim 
along with interest  and £1,000 compensation for trouble and upset.
SOL agreed to pay £1,000 compensation but didnt agree with the other recommendations.
Ref: DRN98254052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If a property is beyond  economic  repair,  as this property was, an insurer may offer the 
consumer a cash settlement representing  the reduction in the propertys value.  This amount 
will be the sale value immediately before the damage less the residual  value after the 
damage. 
Mrs M has provided evidence that the property in an undamaged state would be worth 
£285,000 according to a local estate agent. She has shown me that the property  was sold 
for £60,000. After  legal costs the sale proceeds were £59,379. That means  Mr T and Mr Ts 
loss was £225,621. Since  the sum insured was £215.000, Mr T and Mr T werent entitled to 
recover their full loss. Ill look at whether SOL treated Mr T and Mr T fairly in deducting costs  
of £25,363.08 from the sum insured.
SOLs costs of £25,363.08 include structural engineers and surveyors  fees. But the policy 
covers these separately from the sum insured. So when calculating the cash settlement SOL 
shouldnt have deducted these fees from the sum insured.
Ill now look at whether SOL should  have  deducted any other costs  from the cash  settlement 
for the building.
SOL has a choice under  the policy to repair the damage to the property caused  by an 
insured event or at its option pay in cash the amount of the loss or damage.  But I expect  
SOL to exercise this choice fairly. Once an insurer has started repairs, I consider that its 
entered into a repair contract with the policyholder   in essence an agreement has been 
reached that the claim will be settled by repairing  the damage.  
So I need to decide whether SOL started repairing  the property.  
SOL said it didnt start repairs. But the estimate  which SOL approved  covered all the works 
initially thought  necessary  to repair the damage. Its loss adjuster told Mrs M it was 
appointing a building surveyor to oversee the project  and said he would represent us locally  
to ensure the work to your property is completed as necessary.  In minutes  of a site meeting 
before the work started SOLs  surveyor  described the works as comprising Phase 1 which  
was the stripping out and drying, followed by Phase 2 which would be confirmed on 
completion of the drying. At that point it seems  to me that SOL clearly intended to carry out 
all the repairs.
SOL said it tried to dry the house but it remained damp. So it looked at options to cure the 
dampness. It told our investigator that an effective (and relatively low-cost) option would 
have been damp-proofing  the inside of the affected wall (tanking). It said Mrs M rejected 
this because she didnt  want  the interior of the house to be reduced in size as a result of the 
layer of tanking material. I can see that Mrs M wasnt keen on this option. But advice from 
two separate experts on cob buildings to SOL was that this wouldnt be an appropriate 
solution anyway  because the cob wouldnt be able to breathe . So I dont think  its fair to 
blame Mrs M for the fact that SOL wasnt able to repair the property in this way.
SOL then suggested  selling the property.  I think it was motivated to do this because it had 
become clear that the cost of the repairs would exceed the sum insured. I appreciate that 
Ref: DRN98254053Mrs M for various  reasons agreed  to the sale. But I dont think  that justifies SOL deducting its 
costs from the cash settlement. It had the option  of making a cash settlement  at the start of 
the claim and didnt choose to do so. I dont think its fair for an insurer to change  its mind 
about how to settle a claim because the repair is much more  complicated and/or expensive 
than the insurer  first realised and then deduct costs  incurred in connection with that repair 
from the cash settlement.  So in order  to treat Mr T and Mr T fairly  I think SOL shouldnt have 
deducted the costs incurred  in connection with the claim from the cash  settlement. That 
means SOL should pay a further £25,363.08 to Mr T and Mr T.
SOL paid simple  interest on the cash settlement  at a rate of 8% from 9 October  2017  to the 
date of payment.  Since I think SOL should  have  paid £25,363.08 as part of the cash 
settlement, it follows that I think SOL should  pay interest at the same rate on that sum from 
the same  date (9 October  2017) to the date of payment.
Both sides have agreed to our investigators recommendation that SOL pay £1,000 
compensation for its poor claim handling.  Looking at the trouble and upset caused to Mr T 
and Mr T as a result  of the way SOL has handled  this claim, I think thats  an appropriate 
award. 
Lastly SOL paid interest at 8% on the cash settlement made to Mr T and Mr T. This was 
calculated from the date of its offer letter being 9 October 2017 to 1 January 2018. Our 
investigator thought  interest should be payable up to the time that the cash settlement was 
actually paid in March 2018. I agree that Mr T and Mr T shouldnt  be out of pocket as a result 
of delay on SOLs part in making payment.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Society  of Lloyds  to pay Mr T and Mr T:
the sum of £25,363.08 plus simple interest* at the rate of 8% from 9 October  2017  to the 
date of payment; 
£1,000 compensation for trouble  and upset; and 
simple interest*  on the cash settlement of £225,975.97  at the rate of 8% from 1 January 
2018 to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If Society  of Lloyds considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr T and Mr T how much  its taken  off. It should also give them a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN9825405