K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained on behalf  of P, a limited company, to PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA 
(Paypal).  He says it has placed limitations  on the account the business was using to trade  
through.  This includes  making him wait for payments to be released, which has caused  
business cashflow  problems and resulted in financial  hardship.
background
Mr S is the managing  director  of P.  He has been  using Paypal for his business since 2015.  
In September  2018 Mr S account was limited whilst PayPal requested  some  more 
information about his business.  
Following its investigation,  PayPal informed Mr S that his account  would be permanently 
limited and funds held in it would be retained for up to 180 days  before  being released.  Mr S 
was unhappy  with this decision as the retained  funds were  needed to operate his business.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  but decided it should  not be upheld.  In  
summary, she said that PayPal was entitled  to apply  commercial discretion provided it was 
operating within the account terms and conditions.  She referred to a clause  within the terms 
which Mr S had accepted  when  he opened the account.  It explained that PayPal  was 
entitled to limit the account.
Mr S disagreed.  He  also said the account restrictions  meant that he was unable to open  
claims against sellers via the PayPal account in relation to purchased  items, totalling  around 
£30,000.
In March 2019 the investigator checked with PayPal and confirmed that P did still have the 
ability to open  claims under its buyer protection process.  Mr  S said this had only recently 
been reinstated and so hes unable to open  cases for purchases that are now over six 
months old.  The investigator wasnt persuaded this had been the case  and so no agreement 
could be reached.
Ive now been  asked to look at everything  afresh and reach a decision on the complaint.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for much the same reasons.
Its important I make  Mr S aware  that I appreciate the impact this situation  has had upon him 
and his business.  But for me to uphold  a complaint I must conclude that PayPal has done  
something wrong.  In  reaching my decision I believe there are two key issues  for me to 
consider:
whether PayPal acted  fairly and in accordance with the account terms and conditions  
by limiting the operation of Ps account; and
whether PayPal restricted Ps ability to open cases under its buyer protection 
process, and if it did, whether it should  allow Mr S to make back dated claims now.
Ref: DRN94010052Clause 10.2 in PayPals User  Agreement states:
a. We may, at any time and without liability, suspend, block,  limit, close  or cancel your 
right to use your Payment Instrument or Account entirely or for any particular 
transaction, which may in turn suspend, block, limit, close or cancel access to your 
Account or the Services (such as limiting access to any of your Funding Sources, 
and your ability to send money,  make withdrawals, or remove  financial Information). 
We will normally give you advance  notice  of any suspension  or cancellation but we 
may, if it is reasonable to do so (for example if you are in breach of this Agreement or 
we consider it advisable for security reasons),  suspend  or cancel your right to use 
your Payment  Instrument or Account without  prior notice to you;
b.Block  your Account  and/or hold any funds  in the Reserve Account (including, without 
limitation, for more than 180 days if so required.
PayPal had requested information from Mr S about  his business before reaching  the 
decision to limit the account.  It is entitled  to reach that decision,  and Im unable  question the 
criteria it applied in completing its investigation, as that is part of its commercial discretion.
I realise PayPals decision  is frustrating for Mr S and has had a considerable impact upon  his 
business.  But he accepted the terms of the User Agreement when opening and using the 
account, and that allows  PayPal to limit the account  facilities and retain funds  for 180 days.
The issues  Mr S has faced are compounded as he says that he has a large number of 
disputed purchases  which he needs to open  cases for investigation and reimbursement.  I 
understand he says that until recently the ability to open cases was withdrawn, meaning 
some of the purchases  became  over six months old and cannot be claimed for.
PayPal has stated that Ps buyer  protection eligibility has not been  removed,  and Mr S is free 
to report any eligible transactions through the resolution centre in his account.   I know that 
Mr S disputes it was always available, but on balance Im satisfied he could have made 
claims within the appropriate 180 day period.
So overall, I cant say that PayPal has done  anything wrong, and so it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for me to uphold the complaint.  The account is operating,  but PayPal is 
legitimately retaining funds to be released at a later date, and Mr S is currently able to raise  
new cases for purchases made within the last 180 days.
I realise Mr S will no doubt be disappointed with my conclusion, but Ive reached my decision 
having considered everything afresh  and impartially.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint Mr S has made  (on behalf of P) against 
PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019
Ref: DRN94010053Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9401005