K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat irresponsibly gave him loans 
which he couldnt afford to pay back.  
background 
Mr H took out 3 instalment loans with Cashfloat in November 2015,  February  2016  and July 
2016.
He says he was borrowing  to repay  existing  loans and his credit file shows  his use of short 
term loans. Mr H says he couldnt  repay  the final loan and he had to set up a debt 
management plan.
 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said that information  in the credit search done 
by Cashfloat was at odds  with the information  Mr H had declared and Cashfloat  shouldve 
seen that he was struggling  to manage  his money  and so further  borrowing wasnt  
sustainable.
Cashfloat didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion and in particular said that the loan was 
still affordable on the figures given and Mr Hs borrowing pattern wasnt cause for concern.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN98600952There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  Cashfloat  has told us about the checks 
it did before  lending to Mr H. It asked Mr H for details  of his income and normal expenditure. 
And Cashfloat carried out checks  on Mr Hs credit  file. 
Mr H asked to borrow  £250  repayable  in 2 instalments of £154.25. Mr H said his income  was 
£3800 and his outgoings were £550. These  figures  included food, utilities, rent and transport 
as well as other regular monthly outgoings and credit commitments. The credit  check  
undertaken by Cashfloat showed significant repayments due on short  term accounts.  The 
picture revealed by the credit file was one of an increasing debt and signs that Mr H was 
reliant on short term credit and not responsibly managing his money.
Because the amount  that Mr H owed on his monthly commitments was significantly at odds 
with what he had told Cashfloat I think it was reasonable and proportionate for further checks  
to be carried out. If these checks had been  carried out, Cashfloat would have seen that Mr H 
wasnt responsibly managing his money  and his credit position was unsustainable. He was 
heavily reliant on short term borrowing and using lending to repay borrowing. This meant 
that further borrowing was unsustainable.
On the figures  Cashfloat had it showed around  £1200 was due out in credit  repayments at 
the same  time as the instalment. Mr H had opened  13 new credit accounts in the last 6 
months according to the credit search undertaken by Cashfloat.  This borrowing was at odds 
with the level of disposable income  that Mr H said he had and should have prompted more 
robust checking. 
Although the loan looked affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  I think it was 
reasonable for Cashfloat to have  seen that Mr H wasnt  responsibly  managing  his money  
and so any further borrowing was unsustainable. And so I think Cashfloat shouldve realised 
that it wasnt reasonable to lend this money  to Mr H.
The position  is the same  for the second and third loans. The information on the credit  search  
was at odds with the financial picture  presented by Mr H. I think it would  have been  
proportionate to verify what Mr H was saying about  his income  and outgoings before giving 
him these  loans.
Ref: DRN98600953I dont agree that because Mr H repaid  the loans on time this suggests  he could afford them.  
Mr H was using lending  to repay  his borrowing. Mr H was eventually unable  to repay what he 
had borrowed which further supports  the fact that the loan was unaffordable.
So Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint. It appears that there is a satisfied CCJ in the amount of 
£1060 in respect of the final loan. I dont think it is fair given  the decision I have made for this 
judgement to remain on Mr Hs record.  It may no longer be tecnically possible to set aside 
that judgement  but Cashfloat  should  take steps to ensure the judgement is set aside at no 
cost to Mr H if possible  and also ensure that it is not reported on his credit  file.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
A.Refund all the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, fees,  (including court 
fees) and charges on all loans not including anything  it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove any adverse  information about all the loans  from Mr Hs credit  file and in 
particular ensure that the CCJ is not reported.
D.Take steps to set aside the CCJ if possible at no cost to Mr H.
*
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct Cashfloat  Finance LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9860095