K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Due to the time that has passed,  its not clear how Mr P applied for his mortgage, when the 
PPI policy  started or how it was taken out  Mr P cant remember  and Santander no longer 
has detailed records. Santander says the first recorded premium  charged for PPI was in 
1990 and has assumed  this was the policy  start date. It has also assumed that the sale of 
PPI likely happened in-branch. And I think these  are reasonable assumptions  given the 
limited evidence.
Because the exact start date of the policy isnt known, Santander has provided the policy 
document with the terms and conditions that it says  and which I accept on the balance of 
probabilities - most  closely applied to Mr Ps policy.  The policy  provided  cover for Mr P  the 
records show that it was just in his sole name - for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. 
Santander doesnt know what the cost and benefit  of the policy was  Mr P hasnt been  able 
to say either.  Its likely  it offered to repay a sum at least equal to Mr Ps monthly  mortgage  
payment. In terms of the cost  the earliest  recorded premium amount was in early 1993  at 
£24 a month. Its likely  the cost was no more than this at the outset. 
At the time,  Mr P was employed as a finance  director. He has told us he was entitled to at 
least six months full sick pay and the same amount in the event he was made redundant. Mr 
P has said he had at least 12 months  income  in savings he could use to repay his mortgage 
should he be unable  to work.  Mr P has also said he was in good health at the time of the 
sale. 
Mr P has told us about two medical  conditions he had  but both post-date  the sale by some  
years, so these conditions  are not relevant to my consideration of Mr Ps circumstances at 
the time of sale and so do not affect my decision.
Santander has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account  which  was in existence 
when Mr P took out PPI closed in 1991 when it appears he moved  to a new house and took 
out another mortgage. The PPI continued until 2006 when Mr P cancelled it.
Mr Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ps representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ps representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN97121992The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr P and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1990 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Ref: DRN97121993The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1991. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ps case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ps complaint. 
Ref: DRN97121994key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Mr P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr P know he had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
I said above that Santander  has very little record of what happened  the sale took place 
over 25 years ago and the mortgage account has long since  closed. Businesses dont have 
to keep records indefinitely.
Santander has said that Mr P would  have had to complete  both a separate application and 
direct debit mandate to take out PPI and to allow the premiums  to be debited from his bank 
account. And this is supported by the example policy document it has provided, which  
contains an application form and direct debit  mandate.
So taking everything into account - and in the absence  of persuasive evidence  to suggest 
something different  happened in Mr Ps case - I think its more likely that Mr P knew  the 
policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Mr P says he cant remember  whether  Santander  gave him advice. Because Santander says 
things likely happened in-branch, it says it did provide advice  during  this sale.  
The lack of evidence  means there is nothing to show that Santander did advise Mr P. But on 
the basis that Santanders own testimony is that it provided advice  and because  it doesnt  
disadvantage Mr P in anyway  Im happy to consider this was an advised sale.
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr P with reasonable care and skill, in particular  
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN97121995the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr P. It seems Mr P cant remember clearly what  happened and 
Santander has no paperwork or records. I think its likely the adviser had some limited 
information about Mr Ps financial  circumstances  they wouldve had Mr Ps mortgage 
application to refer to. But there is no specific evidence  to show  the adviser took steps  to 
establish whether  Mr P would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest Santander considered whether Mr P had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded its likely  Santander  did all it 
should have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr P given his 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded I can safely say that Santander advised with 
reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr P, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr P had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr Ps ability to continue to meet  
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if he was not working  for 
an extended period of time  even  allowing for the employee benefits  he says he 
would have been entitled to. I can see Mr P has said he had at least 12 months of his 
income in savings at the time.  But at the same  time Mr P has also said he cant 
remember anything about the sale - so Im mindful about how much weight I can 
place on what he says about the amount of savings he held at the time. But 
notwithstanding this, I still think  the policy would have helped  Mr P manage  the 
consequences if he was unable to work.
-Based  on what we know about  the cost  it cost £24 a month a couple  of years after 
the sale  I think  its likely the cost of the policy was affordable  for Mr P at the time.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr P. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ps employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. It also appears there  were no additional restrictions 
on cover  for mental health or back problems.
-While  there were  likely limits  to the cover  provided by the policy  (including:  the any 
similar gainful occupation condition, the requirement that Mr P be disabled  or 
unemployed for a period before he could make a claim - likely 60 days or 8 weeks  - 
and the fact that according to Santander the policy would only pay benefits  for a 
maximum of 36 months for each claim for disability  and 12 months for unemployment 
 albeit I note the policy document referred  to states  these periods were 60 months 
and 24 months respectively) the policy  still provided  useful  cover  given:
Mr Ps circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
Ref: DRN97121996qualification period)  and the limits  to those provisions,  which mean the policy 
could play an important  role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr P be unable to make the 
repayments on a loan secured against  his home.
-Despite what Mr P says about having already made plans to retire  at the time of sale,  
he was only 39 years old. So retirement was many years  away   I note Mr P has 
gone on to say that he actually  retired in 2012. So I dont  think  Mr Ps age made the 
policy unsuitable for him at the time.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Santander was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
I think its more likely than not that Mr P was given a broad description of what  the policy  was 
intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was unable to work 
through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I have reached 
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mr P would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the limited  evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell me whether Santander gave  
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr P agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr P, Im not persuaded Santander  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded its likely that Santander gave Mr P all of the 
information he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ps representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN97121997-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr P? To what extent  did Mr P 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr P. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr P 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr P 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr P, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Mr P would  have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr P says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ps circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Ref: DRN97121998Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr P knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, theres insufficient evidence to conclude  that Santander told him the exact  
premium at the point  Mr P applied for the policy. 
Having said that, it seems likely Mr P would have  been told the cost before the policy  started 
and he paid for the policy for a number  of years, so if the costs  were significantly at odds 
with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible  he might have raised that with 
Santander at the time or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr P would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, I cant fairly say that Santander  made clear exactly what Mr P would get back in 
return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Ps expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  at least sufficient to meet  
his mortgage payment) was significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to the recurrence of medical conditions for which 
Mr P had sought medical advice  for in the two-year period before  the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr P be unable  to 
do his own job or any similar gainful  job he might be expected to do given his 
knowledge and training; and
The policy protected payments for a fixed period, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr P pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr P was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr P wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  he didnt  have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
It appears the policy didnt  exclude  back or mental health conditions  or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr P 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
Ref: DRN97121999If Mr P had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view might reasonably be able to do, it 
might have played into his thinking  about what he would have done. And I accept it may 
have given him pause for thought  
although its possible he may not have  been  overly concerned  given that if Mr P was unable  
(through disability) to carry  on his own occupation  the chances  that he would be able to take 
up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability,  be limited.
Santander may not have told Mr P that any claim he made  would be limited to a fixed  period. 
As I said above Santander  says this was 36 months for disability and 12 months  for 
unemployment, whereas the policy document provided says this was 60 months and 24 
months respectively.  Regardless of the actual period, this may have differed from what  he 
expected and might have  hoped for. But whichever  period it was, it was longer than Mr P 
would have received full sick pay for and also longer than what Mr P said his redundancy 
entitlement was.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr P would still have thought a policy  that even if 
it paid up to 36 monthly mortgage payments  for disability and 12 months for unemployment  
(these periods  could  have been longer as Ive said) it would have been of benefit  to him and 
would help him manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce his outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure his home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Ps existing provisions  for other  use, 
such as other ongoing  household and fixed expenditure.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr P would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if he was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not Mr P 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr P would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN971219910Taking into account Mr Ps circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to 
conclude the position Mr P found  himself in as a result of the sale was the same position  he 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr P compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr P and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr P in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9712199