K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2007. Mr and Mrs B say Melton  Mowbray Building  Society mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2007.  The policy covered Mr B only 
and would pay a benefit of £935.95 a month if he made a successful claim for accident, 
sickness or unemployment. It cost £32.29 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt know they had PPI and only found out they had it when they 
were about  to redeem  their mortgage  with the Melton in 2018. But looking at the paperwork 
from the time the PPI was taken out, I think its likely they did agree to take it out and they 
would have understood it was optional.
The mortgage application form Mr and Mrs B signed includes a section about  PPI. There is a 
tick in the box confirming they were  interested in discussing  accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment insurance on their mortgage. The Melton says it then sent Mr and Mrs B 
further information about the PPI and Mr B signed  the PPI application form on 
27 October 2007.
So it seems  the application  for PPI was separate to that for the mortgage. And Ive not seen 
anything that would  suggest  Mr and Mrs B were led to believe their mortgage application 
wouldnt be successful if they didnt take out PPI. Its clear Mr B agreed to take out the PPI 
because hes signed the application  form.
The Melton didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B - all of the available paperwork  
confirms this. This means the Melton didnt have to check if the PPI was right for Mr and 
Mrs B. But it did have  to make sure they got the information they needed to decide for 
themselves if it was right for them.
The cost and the benefit of the PPI were set out on the PPI application form, which also 
explained that the type of cover they were applying  for was disability and unemployment.  So 
I think Mr and Mrs B would have understood how much theyd need  to pay for the PPI, as 
well as what it covered and how much the policy would pay in the event of a claim before 
they agreed to take it out.
Ref: DRN97415022Its possible the other information  the Melton gave Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. For example, I dont know what information they were given 
about the exclusions or limitations of the PPI. But as Mr B was in full time, permanent  
employment and has told us he was good  health at the time, it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of these.  So it seems  unlikely better  information about the exclusions and 
limitations would have put Mr and Mrs B off taking out the cover.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt need  the PPI because of the benefits Mr B would have 
received from his employer at the time. But as this was a non-advised sale, they had to 
weigh up in their own minds the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the 
potential consequences  if they didnt insure against  the risk of Mr B being unable  to work  
this wasnt for the Melton to do for them. And as it seems Mr and Mrs B chose to take the 
PPI out, its reasonable to conclude they had some interest  in the benefits offered by this 
type of insurance,  despite Mr Bs employment  benefits.
Overall, while  there might  have been some shortcomings in the sale of the PPI, the policy 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  Mr and Mrs B thought they were  getting. So I think 
they would  still have taken it out, even if the Melton  had given them better  information.
Mr and Mrs B have  also raised concerns about what happened  when  they paid a lump  sum 
towards their outstanding  mortgage in 2009 and when they took out a further advance  in 
2012. They  say the Melton  should have done more to make them aware  of the PPI and they 
could then have  decided to reduce the level of cover or cancel the PPI completely. But it was 
Mr and Mrs Bs responsibility to make sure the PPI continued to meet  their needs. When  
their circumstances and mortgage  changed, they could have contacted  the insurer (a 
separate business to the Melton)  to discuss the changes  there  was no requirement  for the 
Melton to do this or to remind them they had a policy that theyd been paying for since  2007.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9741502