K821x#15complaint
Miss K has complained  that Covea Insurance plc didnt fairly  compensate  her for giving her
incorrect information when she made  a claim  under  her car insurance policy.
background
Miss K bought  a car insurance policy with Covea.  The catalytic converter was stolen  from
her car on 16 February 2019. She reported  it to Covea two days  later,  on 18 February 2019.
Miss K complained that Covea didnt give her sufficient information to make  an informed
decision. An agent gave her two options: to have  an original  manufacturer's  part fitted  which
would improve the condition of her car and therefore  require her to pay a 50% contribution
toward the part which would come to £650   or have an aftermarket part fitted  which
wouldnt lead to betterment and Miss K wouldnt need to pay any contribution.
The agent  told Miss K that in order to have  use of a courtesy car she would need to have the
repairs carried out by an approved repairer - which would only use manufacturer  parts  and
she would  therefore  have to pay 50% toward the betterment condition of her car.
Miss K decided to have  the catalytic converter replaced by her choice of garage and the
work was carried out on the same day  18 February 2019. She complained to Covea on the
same day. She said its policy wording  should clearly set out which parts  it will ask a
consumer to contribute toward in cases of betterment. She said she had trouble getting
through to Covea  to report the claim. And Miss K was unhappy  about  not having  access  to a
courtesy car - as this was only available if she used  an approved  repairer and paid £650
toward the costs  of the repair.
Covea agreed  it hadnt  given Miss K clear  information when she called and it acknowledged
there were some issues  with its phone lines when she called to claim. To put things right,
Covea reimbursed Miss K for the difference in costs she paid for the repairs.
Miss K sent Covea  a copy of the repair invoice. It settled it in full on 20 February  2019  
minus the excess.
Miss K brought her complaint to us. She said Covea  had failed  to properly compensate  her
for the inconvenience  it had caused  her. She said shes  self employed and lost earnings for
two days while her car was being  repaired.
Miss K wanted Covea  to compensate her for loss of earnings as she said she was unable to
travel to work for those two days without  a courtesy car.
Our investigator recommended Miss Ks complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think
Coveas policy wording  was unclear.  But she thought  Covea had given Miss K incorrect
advice. The correct  advice was that  even if Miss K used a non approved repairer, she
would still need  to make a contribution  toward  the replacement part if it led to betterment.
But the investigator thought this was unfair as she thought Covea should have agreed to
replace the part without  asking Miss K to pay a contribution as this was the only way it could
reasonably deal with her claim.
Ref: DRN90816602The investigator thought on balance that  had Miss K received the correct  advice  she
would have used  an approved repairer,  paid the extra amount toward  the part and had
access to a courtesy car. So for the inconvenience caused, she recommended  Covea pay
Miss K £300 compensation.
Miss K accepted  the investigators recommendation. Covea  didnt agree. It said that
replacing a catalytic  converter isnt the same as replacing a bumper for example.  They  have
a life span of around 10 years and a new one improves the performance of a car - so putting
the customer in a position of betterment.
The only incorrect advice Miss K was given was that she wouldnt need  to pay a betterment
contribution if she didnt use an approved repairer.  As the contribution would have been
higher if shed used  an approved repairer,  Covea didnt agree  that Miss K would have more
likely used them  in order to have access to a courtesy car - if shed been given the correct
advice.
It didnt agree with the compensation amount the investigator recommended. Miss K sent
Covea the invoice for the work carried out on 18 February 2019 two days  later  and Covea
issued payment on the same day. So the only amount Miss K paid was the excess which
was correctly due under the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 December 2019.  I thought  a fairer compensation award 
for Covea  to pay Miss K was £100.  
Both parties  received my provisional decision. Miss K didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. Covea  didnt agree. It believes my recommended award  is still high as it waived  the 
sum of £246  which Miss K would  have otherwise been expected to pay under the claim. So it 
said its fairly compensated  Miss K.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong,  we look at whether the insurer put the customer back  in the position
they would  have been if it had dealt with the matter correctly. We look at the impact of any
wrongdoing on the customer  and what the insurer did to put things right.
In this case, I can see that Miss K was caused inconvenience by not being  able to get
through to Covea  between the Saturday  when the theft happened  and the Monday when
she was able to report it. She was however  able to report  the incident  on Monday 18
February 2019.
Due to the incorrect  advice Miss K was given, she made the decision to arrange repairs
herself. I understand  her car was available to her on the same day as she settled the invoice
on 18 February 2019 for £743.59. Miss K owed an excess of £250 for the claim she made to
Covea. It issued payment  for £493.59 to Miss K on 20 February 2019  the same  day she
sent it the invoice.
Its reasonable to expect  a degree of inconvenience  when dealing  with a claim. I think its
inevitable  but fortunately it isnt something  that happens every day.
Ref: DRN90816603Had Covea arranged for Miss Ks car to be repaired by an approved repairer,  the policy says
Miss K would have  been entitled  to use of a courtesy car for the duration of repairs.  I
wouldnt consider  it unreasonable  for any insurer to take a day or two to arrange booking in a
car for repairs.
When we consider loss of use, we look at what a customer did to mitigate their loss. The
daily rate which  we apply is £10.
Ive taken a proportionate  approach in deciding  a fair level of compensation for the impact
Coveas incorrect advice  had on Miss K, the length  of time she was inconvenienced for, and
what we would have  considered reasonable if Covea hadnt done  anything wrong.
To put things right, Covea  reimbursed Miss K in full for the repairs she arranged. So she
didnt pay any contribution toward the replacement catalytic converter. She would have
always had the inconvenience of having her car repaired  by a garage  as shed made a
claim. She was without  use of her car for one working day  which we would have
considered a loss of use award of £10.
I appreciate that Covea  says the incorrect advice  caused minimum disruption to Miss K. But 
I think thats partly because Miss K took action quickly to mitigate her circumstances  by 
arranging her own repairs.
However I dont think  in line with our approach and similar  awards which we give  that 
£300 compensation in addition to Coveas reimbursement of the repairs   is fair in this case. 
I think a more reasonable award for the inconvenience caused to Miss K is £100. This takes
into account the impact  of the incorrect advice, the trouble Miss K experienced getting
through on the phone,  what Covea  did to put things  right and the length of time Miss K was
inconvenienced over and above a reasonable level when having to deal with a claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Covea Insurance  plc to pay 
Miss K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its incorrect  advice and
poor service caused her.
Covea Insurance  plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Miss K accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Miss K how much its taken off. It should also give Miss K a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN90816604Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9081660