K820x#14complaint
Miss O complained, through her representative, about the mis selling  of Pay Day loan(s) 
which Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, approved for her in September  2015.  Miss O is no 
longer represented by that third party. 
background
Miss O brought her complaint to us in June  2018 and at that time was represented by a third 
party. Miss O applied  in September  2015 for a loan of £2,200.  She was approved for a 
running account credit facility with a limit of £750  on which  she was able to draw down the 
amounts she required. The credit  was unsecured and had no fixed duration. The credit 
agreement set out in its clause  5, the total cost of the credit. On the assumption that Miss O 
drew down the full £750 on the first day and then repaid it over twelve months in equal 
instalments then the total amount payable would have been just under £1,025. This would 
have equated  to about £85 a month. 
The arrangement did include  a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced  
ten days before Miss Os salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that 
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations in the agreement at clause 6 which  
I have not set out here. I have received copies of Miss Os monthly Statements. A 
Continuous Payment  Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Miss Os 
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment  were  made available.
Miss O drew down the full £750  on the first day and the facility ran for a few months until it 
was suspended in January 2016.  Miss O re-used it and it was suspended again  in May 2016 
after which the facility  seems not to have been used.  Our understanding is that there is an 
outstanding balance on the account, but we do not know how much.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that Drafty was not wrong to 
have approved the facility. But he went on to say that he thought  Drafty should  have stopped  
providing further funds  on this facility from 28 February 2016,  as he did not think  it was 
suitable or sustainable for Miss O. 
Drafty has written to say it does not agree and has asked for an ombudsman  to decide. In 
April 2020 I issued a provisional decision to say that I did not thing that Drafty had done  
anything wrong  and that I was not planning  to uphold Miss Os complaint. Since then we 
have not heard from either party.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the credit  was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should  take 
proportionate steps to understand whether  the consumer will be able to repay what  they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely  impacting  on their financial situation.  
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things  a lender  could  consider  before  agreeing to lend. The key element 
Ref: DRN96203222was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including how much was being lent and when  the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
I need to explain  to Miss O that upon first approaching Drafty in September 2015 it would not 
be expected, and would not be proportionate,  for Drafty to carry out a full and 
comprehensive financial review. Miss O was a new customer. And bearing in mind  the credit  
limit granted and the monthly  payments required to repay the facility within  a reasonable 
period (around  £85 a month),  Drafty was entitled to rely on the information given to it which 
suggested that Miss O had enough disposable income  to service a credit facility with a limit 
of £750. Considering the details on Miss Os application form and the summary of the credit 
check results  Drafty carried out then I do not think that Drafty was wrong to approve the 
credit facility initially. 
After that, Drafty did have  to monitor Miss Os account. Having considered the monthly 
statements then it seems  likely that Drafty  did that. In line with the terms of the facility, Drafty 
suspended her account upon non-payment of the minimum repayment sum in January 2016. 
At that stage the account was only three  months old. Miss O resurrected it by paying the full 
minimum repayment due which  then allowed her to draw down again. But, later, Drafty 
suspended the account again. 
This seems a proportionate reaction and demonstrated that the account  was being 
monitored. Miss O used it for a short period of time in line with its intended use. I do not 
uphold Miss Os complaint. I am aware that there was  and may still be  an outstanding 
sum for Miss O to repay. I remind Drafty  to approach Miss Os debt situation in a positive  
and sympathetic manner.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Os complaint. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept or reject  my decision 
before 1 July 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9620322