K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained to this service  about  her pension. The complaints relate to the 
following parties:
Westminster Wealth  Management  LLP (WWM)  her advisers at the relevant time.
A third-party Discretionary Investment Management firm  the DIM.
A third-party Investment Platform Provider firm  the IPP.
The complaints about the DIM and the IPP have been addressed  separately.  The present 
complaint is about  WWM,  against whom  Ms B mainly  alleges the following:
That WMM gave  her unsuitable advice  to keep her pension  on the IPPs platform, 
despite awareness of her reservations  about  doing so (reservations based  on her 
negative previous experience of the IPP).  [issue 1]
That WMM failed  to provide her with the ongoing  advice and servicing, with regards 
to the pension, that she was entitled  to. [issue  2]
background
A summary  of key events, based on available evidence  and relevant  to the present 
complaint, is as follows:
In July 2016 Ms B opened her account  on the IPPs platform; a different firm 
previously serviced  her investments on the platform, but in August 2017 that firm 
withdrew from doing so and the account moved into a non-advised/execution  only 
status; between  November and December 2017 Ms B gave WWM temporary 
authority to access the account; and in March 2018 she confirmed WWM  as her 
servicing advisers for the account.
In March 2018 WWM issued its advice letter to Ms B recommending  that she retain 
the same  platform for her pension and recommending the use of the DIMs Growth 
model portfolio  service; in the same month  Ms B followed this advice and installed,  in 
the platform account, the DIM as discretionary managers of her pension.
In September  2018 WWM complained, on Ms Bs behalf,  to the IPP with regards  to 
the IPPs erroneous quarterly reporting  for the period ending July 2018;  within  the 
same month (September), the IPP conceded responsibility for the error in the report 
and issued a corrected version of the report.
In January 2019 (within a letter erroneously dated 10.1.18) WWM issued its formal 
response to Ms Bs complaint. It addressed matters  related  to issues  1 and 2 under 
different headings.  Overall and in the main, it found that there was no concern about 
its financial advice on the pension and there is no evidence it should have advised  on 
any other matter as Ms B only sought  advice on the pension; that, similarly, there  
was no concern about the DIM it recommended and that its model portfolio was 
suitable because  it matched her risk profile  and mid-size portfolio (pension) and it 
gave an essentially bespoke fund management  service at a [reduced] pooled price;  
that its recommendation to remain with the IPP was also suitable, despite the IPP not 
being Ms Bs preference, because whilst not perfect the IPP served its purpose for 
her pension  without  the additional costs that would have resulted from a move  to an 
alternative platform (in the hope of a better  service), and such additional costs would 
Ref: DRN98221412have hindered her growth objective (achievement  of which was the priority); that it 
was wrong to have  issued  Ms B with the wrong illustration  one for a Self-Invested  
Personal Pension (SIPP) instead of one for the Personal Pension  (PP) she held  
but no material detriment  resulted from that; and that it was also wrong not to have 
set out a definitive scope  for its ongoing  service at the outset, but whilst this deprived 
Ms B of clarity for her expectations the reality was that it performed more work  for her 
than it normally would  in the circumstances and it received less in fees than it would 
have if its work had been billed at an hourly  rate. To apologise for its failures WWM 
offered Ms B £100. As it found  the failures did not cause detriments, it concluded 
there were no grounds to uphold her overall  complaint.
In March 2019 WWM terminated its relationship with Ms B and withdrew itself from 
servicing the pension;  it also informed the IPP about  this, so in this month Ms Bs 
platform account moved again into a non-advised/execution only status.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.
In considering issue 1 he acknowledged  that the IPP was not Ms Bs preferred choice of 
platform provider and that this was because  of issues she previously  experienced with it. 
Nevertheless, he concluded that WWMs  advice to retain the platform  account was suitable,  
because it avoided costs  that would have  been associated with a transfer to another 
provider; he did not consider there would have  been  a guarantee that another  provider 
would provide a better service; he said the IPPs charges were competitive and that the 
issues Ms B had experienced with the IPP were  not enough to prompt  advice  to transfer 
(out).
The investigator made the following  main  findings on matters  raised  by Ms B under issue  2:
WWM was reasonable  in helping Ms B to resolve the erroneous  quarterly reporting 
issue with the IPP in September 2018.
Ms Bs displeasure with the lack of details in WWMs own reporting during a meeting 
in the same month is reasonably explained  by the fact the meeting was not intended 
to provide the thorough review  she expected.  The thorough  review  was to follow in 
her annual  meeting  with WWM set for March 2019.
WWMs ongoing service document, which set out what  was included  in the service, 
was not provided  to Ms B. Despite that omission, evidence shows  that it delivered the 
contents of the service  to Ms B (including  reporting,  the catch-up meeting and some  
bespoke services) as it was required to, so WWM  delivered  the service  it was paid to 
deliver.
WWM made another mistake by issuing Ms B with the SIPP illustration as part of its 
advice when, in fact, Ms B held a PP. It identified and corrected this mistake.  The 
mistake had no material impact on Ms B and WWM  reasonably offered her £100  for 
the trouble and upset caused by this matter and by its failure to provide the ongoing 
service document.
It was reasonable  for WWM to terminate its service to Ms B, given her refusal to sign 
its renewal client agreement.
Ref: DRN98221413Ms B disagreed with this outcome. Overall,  she considered that the investigator  had 
summarised some facts incorrectly, that he doubted credibility in her account  of events 
without cause to and that he had not considered telephone recording evidence relevant to 
the complaint.
There is record of the investigator subsequently  making further effort to exhaust disclosure 
of all relevant recordings  of telephone calls between  Ms B and her WWM adviser. WWM 
confirmed that it had searched  but could not find any more  recordings  than it had disclosed.  
It also said it does not dispute that some unrecorded telephone conversations  between its 
adviser and Ms B took place  and were unrecorded  probably because they were calls to or 
from the advisers mobile phone (which are not recorded)  but it cannot see how relevant  
they would  be to the complaint given  that available documentation provide requisite and 
relevant evidence for the complaint.
In our records for the complaints there  appears to be a suggestion that Ms B wants a claim 
about the DIM duplicating dealing charges to be addressed within  the present complaint 
about WWM.
The complaint was referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I address the suggestion that the dealing charges allegation against the DIM be 
addressed in the present  complaint. I confirm  that will not be the case.  I have considered our 
records on Ms Bs complaint against  the DIM. We established a lack of jurisdiction to 
address that complaint because Ms B is not eligible to make  the complaint under the 
regulators rules.  This was communicated and explained to her. The result remains that we 
cannot address  the merits (or otherwise) of that complaint.
I have not seen anything that says the complaint  issue is one for which WWM is a legitimate 
alternative respondent. I have considered our records for Ms Bs two complaints about the 
IPP and I learnt from those records that an argument appears to have been  raised  about  
WWM being  responsible  for the actions of the DIM it recommended  and appointed.  If this is 
the basis on which it is suggested that WWM  is an alternative respondent (to the dealing 
charges allegation)  and I have not seen an argument for any other  I consider it flawed. 
The appointment of the DIM was made on behalf  of Ms B (and alongside the WWM adviser 
she was a joint signatory  to the formal appointment document), and the DIM undertook 
responsibility for its own conduct. I have not seen  evidence that WWM shared that 
responsibility in any way and, as it found in its complaint  response  letter,  I too find that there 
is no complaint about WWMs recommendation of the DIM being unsuitable.
Issue 1
WWM had a regulatory obligation to give Ms B suitable advice on her pension  arrangement. 
There is no dispute in this respect.  Issue  1 is about its recommendation of the IPPs  platform 
 that is, its advice that Ms B should continue to keep  her pension on that platform.  I 
recognise that inferences could be drawn  from the fact that the pension had been on the 
platform  with an advised status and then with a non-advised status, and without, it 
Ref: DRN98221414appears, any attempt by her to transfer  to another platform  before WWMs  
recommendation. However,  that does not automatically mean the platform  was suitable for 
Ms B in March 2018 when WWM  considered  suitability and gave  its advice. Furthermore, I 
am satisfied  that her reservations about  the IPPs service around the time of advice  
essentially amounted  to effort on her part to consider  transferring to another platform.
I have seen evidence  that the WWM adviser  paid attention to this issue.  She appears to 
have spent time in considering the matter of suitability of the investment platform  and 
evidence in her diary of work performed suggests  she conducted comparisons between 
providers in this respect.
In order to be suitable, the recommended platform (and its features)  had to be fit for the 
purpose of holding and administering Ms Bs pension in the pensions best interests, as it 
was at the time of advice and as it was likely to become after the foreseeable changes  
arising from recommendation  of the DIM.  The pension,  as it was, had been held on the 
platform prior to the point  of advice so the platform served its purpose in that respect.  I have 
not seen evidence that the platform was unfit to cater for the recommended DIM investment 
growth model which was the change that was recommended  and therefore  foreseeable  
at the point of advice.  I also have not seen evidence that it lacked any required (or even 
desired) features that were available at comparable costs  elsewhere.
In order to be suitable, the costs  associated with the platform  also had to be reasonable. The 
IPPs charges were  of concern  to Ms B and formed a major reason  behind her reservation.  
However, evidence  suggests that the problem she had around that particular time was not 
about the charges in general  but was about her displeasure at incurring higher platform 
costs during the period   before  her appointment of WWM  in which her account  had a non-
advised status. This is one of the issues in her complaint  about  the IPP.
Terms upon  which  platform costs for clients increase where an account  is non-advised are 
not uncommon amongst the terms of service for investment platforms.  This statement should 
not be mistaken as an undue finding  on merit about  Ms Bs complaint (on this matter) 
against the IPP. It is not, and this decision is not about the complaint against the IPP. It is a 
statement that I have  made to explain  that WWM was not and would not have been  
expected to consider Ms Bs specific dispute a basis  to regard the IPPs platform unsuitable.  
It is plausible  that any of the alternative providers considered  at the time could have had 
comparable terms about increased costs for non-advised accounts.
I share  the investigators  views on the matter of costs. Evidence does not show that the 
IPPs platform costs  were not competitive. They appear to have  been  reasonable in the 
circumstances, so the platform was not unsuitable  in terms of costs.
As the investigator  also said, there  was no guarantee that potentially  higher fees applied by 
an alternative provider  would mean  a better  service.  I agree with WWMs argument  that a 
pursuit for a potentially  better platform service  from an alternative provider and at higher 
costs had to be balanced  with the likely effect of those costs  on the pensions net 
performance. Giving the pension a chance to achieve its objective  had to be the priority,  so 
the idea of incurring higher platform costs that would probably  hinder that objective would 
not have been suitable unless justified by supporting facts. No such facts  appear to have 
existed in Ms Bs case. If Ms B considers that a better platform  service,  in general, did not 
necessarily mean higher  costs, I consider that no guarantee  could have been given that an 
alternative platform (at any costs level)  would have provided a better  service.
Ref: DRN98221415The task before WWM was to satisfy itself about the suitability of the platform  and platform 
provider it recommended  not to satisfy itself that it recommended the best platform and 
provider. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that its recommendation to Ms B to 
remain with the IPP was unsuitable. Evidence  shows that, in addition to its analysis of its 
suitability, it also considered Ms Bs familiarity with IPP to be a relevant factor. At the time of 
advice, her displeasure  with the IPP does  not appear to have  been  as strong as it later 
became. There is evidence that later in 2018  her strength of feeling  against the IPP 
increased and she gave a firm instruction to WWM  to look into an alternative provider. 
However, the same evidence shows WWM expressing its readiness to do so but also 
expressing concern  that Ms B was not prepared to pay for what  it viewed as additional work 
in this respect, so her instruction  was not executed for this reason.  
Issue 2
WWMs ongoing advisory service to Ms B, and in relation to her pension, must be viewed in 
the context of the overall arrangements that were  put in place for the pension. The DIM was 
responsible for its investment management  and the IPP was responsible for its 
administration within the platform. WWM  retained advisory oversight on the arrangements 
and on their ongoing suitability for Ms B.
WWM concedes  that the scope of its ongoing service  was not made  clear  to Ms B at the 
outset, as it ought to have  been. It also concedes fault for the advisers  error in providing the 
wrong pension  illustration.  For both these matters and on the isolated  ground that they were  
errors Ms B should not have experienced I am satisfied that WWMs apology  and £100  offer 
sufficed.
Beyond the above finding, I have considered whether (or not) either error resulted in a 
meaningful detriment to Ms B and her pension. I do not consider that was the case.  
An erroneous illustration  would ordinarily  have had the effect of misinforming a client, but in 
this case, evidence shows that the projections  relevant to Ms Bs pension  were comparable 
and broadly the same as those in the SIPP illustration. As such, in real terms and other  than 
the use of the wrong document, Ms B does not appear to have been misinformed. WWM 
accepts that the products differed  which is somewhat  a given  but it is not the case  that 
Ms B was invested  in the wrong pension wrapper due to the error. The error  appears to have 
had no material effect, other than the use of incorrect documentation.
A failure  to properly  set out and agree the scope of an ongoing advisory  service  would  also,  
ordinarily, have had the effect of misinforming a client  in terms of the ongoing service to 
expect. This is a serious matter and I am persuaded that WWM  regarded it as such in 
addressing Ms Bs complaint and that, in principle, it continues to do so. But for evidence of 
the level of service it provided, as a matter of fact, to Ms B I consider it more  likely (than not) 
that this aspect of issue 2 would have been  upheld  in her favour. 
However, I do not uphold  this aspect of issue 2 (or issue 2 as a whole) precisely because of 
evidence of the ongoing service Ms B received, as a matter  of fact, from WWM.  In essence 
and on balance, I consider that she had her own idea of what she expected from WWMs 
ongoing service  and WWMs  failure to issue her with the relevant ongoing service  
information meant her idea was inevitably not based  on that information; but, in real terms, 
both her idea and the terms  of the ongoing  service nevertheless matched in many ways   
evident in different requests she made of WWM  being met  and the ongoing service that 
was given to her was no less than she was entitled  to under its terms.
Ref: DRN98221416It should also be noted that Ms B did have  some insight into the scope of the ongoing 
service. The client agreement she signed  in February 2018 set out the basics  of WWMs 
advisory service and promised separate written  confirmation of the components of the 
ongoing service  specific to her. She did not receive the latter, but the former included  
reference to the following  
A regular review of your circumstances, aims and objectives that allows  us to understand 
your needs,  frame our advice, and provide context to our oversight of existing investments or 
insurances. [my emphasis]
Research and due diligence on potential recommendations commensurate with our status 
as regulated independent agents acting on your behalf.
Written reports as required describing and analysing your financial circumstances and/or 
supporting any recommendations we may make.
Clear communications that allow you to compare and contrast  how the various financial 
products available to you can enhance  (or detract  from) your ability to meet financial goals.
Specific and detailed  recommendations that provide clarity in respect of our view on how 
best to meet  your financial goals.
Assistance  with the administration associated with arranging  new products, liaison with 
product providers in respect of queries and changes during a products life. [my emphasis]
An ongoing review service that incorporates the updating  of our understanding of your 
needs and the ongoing efficacy of the plans and products  with which  you engage.  [my 
emphasis]
What I have emphasised  above are the contents  that appear to have related to WWMs 
ongoing service  and are what I considered in saying  Ms B had some insight into what  to 
expect from that service. It appears that the only matter in which  WWM  did not meet  a 
request from Ms B was in relation to her firm instruction to look into another platform  
provider, as I mentioned  above. However, I consider that remote  to the ongoing advisory 
service. The instruction did not arise from a recommendation from WWM. WWM had 
recommended the IPP. It was Ms B who, a period after that recommendation, decided  to ask 
for an alternative regardless. She was entitled  to do so but, in this context, it was additional 
work for WWM.
Otherwise, WWM does indeed  appear  to have provided Ms B with the requisite ongoing 
service. I have  not seen  evidence of problems in accessing her adviser, or service  failures  in 
having her pension arrangements overseen, monitored and reviewed by WWM  in discussion 
with her. Its role in helping her resolve the problem  with the IPPs erroneous  report was 
positive. It went beyond  resolution of the problem to complain on her behalf. It reviewed the 
pension with her in an interim setting and before the annual review  date. When there 
appeared to be a problem  in the DIM actioning work on the pension, there is evidence that 
WWM helped  in resolving that too. These are examples to illustrate my finding  that, on 
balance, a material service failing on WWMs  part has not been established, so issue 2 is not 
upheld.
Ref: DRN98221417For the sake of completeness, I am not persuaded that WWM is withholding telephone 
recording evidence unduly.  I consider  that it has disclosed the recordings it found, and those 
recordings do not alter the above  finding.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9822141