K821x#15complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the quality of the car she acquired through  Moneybarn No. 1 Limited. 
Mrs P is being represented by her husband,  Mr P. For ease, I will refer to Mrs P throughout 
the decision.
background
Mrs P acquired a 2011 registration automatic car on finance with Moneybarn.  The cash price 
was £7,020. The agreement began on 22 January 2018, and was due to run for five years, 
with monthly repayments of £235.94.  
Moneybarns contact  notes show that Mrs P contacted them  on 26 January  2018 to say the 
tyres were very worn. Moneybarn advised  her to speak to the garage.
Mrs P made contact again on 30 January  2018 mentioning withdrawing from the agreement 
within the first 14 days, saying she wanted to change the car because there wasnt enough 
space in the back for the number of car seats  they needed. She made contact  again  on 
3 February 2018  and the notes say customer called regarding  withdrawal. (dealer/broker) 
are stating that customer has no right of withdrawal. Customer to contact dealer again and 
explain unwind not enough seats  for customer.  
The contact  notes show that Mrs P rang again  on 6 February 2018 to say the car wasnt fit 
for purpose  and that she wanted to unwind the agreement. The notes indicate the dealership 
wasnt in agreement. And that Moneybarn Advised cust to speak with Dealership/Broker to 
get a decision  of Unwind, because cust is worried due to her only having tomorrow left in the 
unwind period.  Advised  Mrs P to speak to the dealer.
On 9 February Mrs P rang Moneybarn again.  The notes from the call show  that Mrs P re-
iterated the car wasnt fit for purpose, said she hadnt been  able to get hold of the broker and 
that Moneybarn  had said theyd try to speak to them.  The notes suggest that someone would 
be calling  Mrs P to discuss the unwinding  of the agreement.
On 17 February Mrs P rang to say there were further problems  with the car, including the 
engine making  strange  noises and problems with the steering. 
Later that month, Mrs P complained to Moneybarn and then contacted us after Moneybarn 
didnt provide a response within the 8 week regulatory timeframe.  Mrs P said she was so 
concerned by the issues with the car, including safety concerns around the gears  being  
faulty, that shed  needed  to look for another one. 
She also mentioned  a specific  incident where  the gears jumped and the car lurched forwards  
 that meant from that point onwards (until they got a replacement car), she didnt  use the 
car and her husband  only used it when travelling by himself without the children. Mrs P said 
she needed to borrow her brother-in-laws car during that time so that she and the children 
could get around.
An investigator here looked into things  and upheld the complaint. She thought the car wasnt  
of satisfactory quality. She recommended that Mrs P be allowed to reject the car and get her 
money back.
Ref: DRN94801482Moneybarn disagreed, primarily because it didnt think Mrs P had evidenced the car wasnt  
of satisfactory quality, within the first 30 days.  Moneybarn  said though that it was prepared to 
arrange an independent inspection of the car. By this point, the car was in Moneybarns  
possession as Mrs P had voluntarily terminated  the agreement. However, after saying it 
would arrange  for an independent inspection to be carried out, Moneybarn  later said the car 
had been sold at auction.
The case  was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on this case  on 
27 March 2019.  In this I said:
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such, this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law, in this case  the Consumer Rights Act (CRA),  says that under a contract to 
supply goods,  there  is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is satisfactory.  The 
quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and all the 
other relevant circumstances.  So it seems likely that in a case  involving a car, the other 
relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  include things like the age and 
mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the CRA, the quality  of the goods  includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose,  appearance  and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability.
The CRA also provides  that any contract  to supply goods by description implies  a term into 
the contract  that the goods will meet that description.
In addition, s56 Consumer Credit Act 1974 provides that a finance provider can be liable for 
what was said by the supplier/credit-broker  before the credit agreement  was entered  into.
was the car mis-sold/mis-described?
Mrs P has said she was told before  getting  the car it would fit three car seats in the back. But 
that when she got the car, she found  this not to be the case. 
So Ive thought about whether Mrs P was misled about how much  space  there was for car 
seats. Im not persuaded she was. I accept the dealer may well have said the car could fit 
three car seats in the back. But Mrs P hasnt  said that the dealer said the car would fit the 
specific car seats she had in mind (Mrs P was expecting another  child),  in the back. And as I 
understand it, the car could  technically fit 3 car seats in the back   dependent on the type of 
seat being used.
So the fact Mrs P couldnt fit her specific car seats  in the back doesnt mean that what the 
dealer said was incorrect.
were the good  of satisfactory quality?
In the case, the car was around seven  years old and had done 46,450 miles when Mrs P 
acquired it. The cash price was £7,020. With this in mind, I think  it is fair to say that a 
Ref: DRN94801483reasonable person would expect that components of the car might  have already suffered 
notable wear and tear. And there is a greater risk this car might  need repair  and 
maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road worn at the point of supply. That said, 
the car stills needs  to be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mrs P brought the car to a tyre garage  on 27 January  2018  to be looked at. By this point the 
car had driven  only around 46,598 miles,  so about 150 miles from supply. The garage noted  
that some  of the tyres  needed replacement and that there was a possible wheel alignment 
issue. Mrs P paid to have the tyres  replaced.  The dealership agreed to cover  the tyre 
replacement on the basis the replacement tyres were budget ones.
Mrs P had an inspection carried out of the car on 9 April 2018.The resultant report mentions 
a number of issues  with the car  including  problems with the gearbox, a tapping noise 
coming from the engine  and a significant  water  leak. The report  lists a number of fault codes, 
including ones relating to the gearbox. 
Moneybarn says it has concerns about  the evidence Mrs P has provided to support her 
case, in terms of:
-It being produced  a considerable time after the car was supplied.  The faults 
mentioned may not have been  there  at the outset.
-The report is on an editable word document, there isnt a VAT registration number 
and no mileage is recorded.
Ive spoken to the mechanic who assessed  the car to get more of an understanding of the 
issues with the car. The mechanic said hed driven  the car as part of his assessment and 
experienced problems with the automatic gears,  including the gears sticking. He confirmed  
that all of the fault codes listed in the report  had been identified from diagnostics  he carried  
out.
He also said that, in line with the report hed produced, he wasnt sure of the exact  cause of 
the water  leak or the tapping noise coming  from the engine  (or indeed the extent of faults 
with the automatic gear system). It wouldve been very costly  to identify the exact  nature  of 
the issues, and then repair costs wouldve depended on what  was ultimately  found  to be 
wrong.
Having spoken  to the mechanic, Im satisfied that the report  is genuine and an accurate 
reflection of the issues with the car.
So although  I cant be sure of the exact  cause of the problems, the issues mentioned  in the 
report are potentially significant ones  relating to the engine and the automatic gears. The 
report (supported by the conversation I had with the mechanic)  indicates these were not 
problems that could be quickly and easily fixed.  So I can understand why Mrs P was 
concerned and looking to get a different car. 
The car when  supplied wasnt new but on balance I think the faults were present or 
developing at the point of supply. Mrs P raised  a number of issues within  the first 30 days, 
including concerns about the engine and noises  coming from it. These were issues also 
mentioned in the mechanics report produced in April 2018. So I think  it likely the issues 
were present  or developing when the car was supplied. Taking everything into account, on 
balance I find the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied. 
Ref: DRN94801484what is a fair and reasonable remedy?
Moneybarn has said Mrs P didnt evidence problems with the car, within  the first 30 days. It 
says under the CRA it, the onus is on the consumer to provide  evidence of the issues if they 
want to exercise their short term right to reject. 
The relevant  law says that to exercise the right to reject goods and obtain a refund,  the 
consumer must indicate to the seller/provider  that they are rejecting  the goods  and treating  
the contract  as at an end within the first 30 days. According to Moneybarns  own contact 
notes, Mrs P made a number of references  to wanting to unwind and withdraw from the 
agreement, within the first 30 days and give the car back. And the issues raised  about  the 
car included  concerns about the tyres,  the car pulling to one side and, on 17 February 2018, 
problems with an engine, making  strange  noises.  
From what  Mrs P has said, after she raised the various concerns about  the car to 
Moneybarn, she was repeatedly told to speak  to the dealer/broker.  And she was having 
difficulty getting the dealer to engage  with her about  the issues. This is supported by the 
contact notes from Moneybarn. Had the dealer/broker engaged more  with Mrs Ps concerns, 
for example by carrying out or arranging some kind of inspection, this might  have shed light 
at an earlier  stage of the nature/extent of the issues raised by Mrs P. And this might have led 
to other  ways of resolving  Mrs Ps complaint.
It also seems  to me that Moneybarn couldve done more to look into the issues Mrs P had 
raised  including doing more to contact the dealer/broker itself at an earlier stage.  And, 
regardless of the extent to which the dealer was engaging with the issues  raised, Moneybarn 
couldve arranged its own inspection of the car to evaluate the issues  and its liability relating 
to those issues.
The evidence I do have  shows that Mrs P raised concerns about the cars engine,  including 
it making strange  noises,  within  30 days of it being supplied. And she tried to exercise her 
right to short term rejection.
Ultimately, Mrs P voluntarily terminated  the agreement. But to put things right here, I think  
Moneybarn should  treat Mrs P as though she could have rejected the car at the point that 
she voluntarily terminated the agreement.  
I can see that Mrs P has had use of the car, so I think  it fair that Moneybarn  keeps most of 
the monthly payments up to the point of voluntary termination. I think  though that Mrs P 
should be compensated for the impaired usage of the car. She experienced a number of 
problems from the outset and has said she was worried about safety with the automatic 
gears not working as they should.  And after a particular incident where the car lurched 
forwards, she borrowed her brother-in-laws car so that she and the children could get 
around. 
Taking everything into account,  I think it would be reasonable for Mrs P to receive 25% of all 
of her monthly payments up to the point of voluntary termination.
I also think a payment for distress and inconvenience is warranted here. I say this because I 
think Moneybarn shouldve done  more to look into things when Mrs P was communicating 
the problems she was having with the car. It seems clear to me that Mrs P was having some  
difficulty getting the dealer/broker to engage  with the issues  and I think  Moneybarn  could 
Ref: DRN94801485and should have done more to look into the issues itself. Had it done this, its likely Mrs P 
wouldve encountered less stress and worry.
I think £100 represents a fair amount and is consistent with awards we make  in similar 
circumstances.                                                                          
my provisional decision
I currently intend to direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  to do the following to put things right:
-remove any arrears,  charges or fees so that Mrs P no longer has any liability under  
the account. 
-refund  25% of every payment Mrs P made after the agreement  began,  up to when 
the agreement  was voluntarily terminated.  Plus 8% yearly simple interest from the 
date of each payment  to the date of the calculation
-remove any adverse information  from Mrs Ps credit  history
-£100 for distress  and inconvenience
I asked both parties for their comments and both said they accepted my provisional findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings, I see no reason to depart from them.
This means  I still find that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when  supplied.  And that 
Mrs P had tried to exercise her right to short term rejection.
It follows that I still think Moneybarn needs  to treat Mrs P as though she could have  rejected  
the car at the point that she voluntarily terminated  the agreement. 
And I still think a payment  for distress  and inconvenience is due and that Mrs P should get 
back part of her monthly payments.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited. to do the 
following to put things right:
-remove any arrears,  charges or fees so that Mrs P no longer has any liability under  
the account. 
-refund  25% of every payment Mrs P made after the agreement  began,  up to when 
the agreement  was voluntarily terminated.  Plus 8% yearly simple interest from the 
date of each payment  to the date of the calculation
-remove any adverse information  from Mrs Ps credit  history
-£100 for distress  and inconvenience
Ref: DRN94801486If Moneybarn considers  that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs P how much  it has taken off. Moneybarn  should also give 
Mrs P a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Ben Brewer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9480148