K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) unfairly declined a claim 
he attempted to make  for the loss of his mobile  phone under his insurance policy. 
background
Ms S has told us that he lost his mobile phone while shopping at a local supermarket. 
Assurant decided to decline  Mr Ss claim as he had given false  and mis-leading information.
Our investigator thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Assurant didnt agree so this 
complaint had been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S attempted to make a claim for the loss of his mobile phone Assurant asked him 
when he last made a call from it. Mr S said he made and received a call the same night his 
mobile phone was lost.
Assurant looked  at Mr Ss mobile phone usage  and found that Mr S hadnt  made  a call from 
his phone on the day it was lost.
Ive looked at Mr Ss mobile phone usage and can see he doesnt always  use his phone  
every day, so not using his phone on the day it was stolen to make  an outgoing call wouldnt 
have been unusual.
Assurant also asked  Mr S the questions  about  his mobile phone usage around a week  after 
the phone  was lost, so I dont think its unreasonable that Mr S may have been confused 
about when it was last used. Mr S told us that he spoke  to his wife on the phone after 
receiving a call from her and that he made an honest mistake  saying he had called her. 
Having taken everything into account I think Mr S has given  a fair account of how he lost his 
mobile phone and I dont think Assurant has acted  reasonably when deciding  to decline his 
claim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I required Assurant General Insurance Limited to reconsider Mr Ss claim under the terms 
and conditions of the insurance  policy.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Ref: DRN92653272Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9265327