K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) wont pay a claim he made on his 
contents policy for some stolen items.
background
Mr G contacted Ageas in mid August 2018 to say hed had some of his belongings stolen 
whilst he was moving house a couple  of weeks earlier. During the conversation  he told 
Ageas the house move  had been  carried out by a neighbour, and that neighbour asked 
some local young  people to help move  boxes.
Ageas said Mr Gs policy only covered him during a house move  if the removal was done by 
a professional company. So it said he wasnt covered for the loss.
Mr G then explained that he has some memory  issues, and that the items  might have been 
stolen from boxes in the house when the youngsters  helping  were left alone.  He said that his 
house move  was between 27 and 29 July. Ageas said Mr G had only changed his insurance  
from his old address to the new one in early  August. So a theft from the new property before 
that date wasnt  covered.
Mr G went on to explain the theft might have  been as late as mid August  although he didnt 
know how anyone got into his house.  And he also said he could have been carrying  the 
stolen items  in a basket  in his car  so they might have gone  from there.
Mr G said hed reported the theft to the police.  He thought he might  have  told the police the 
theft took place  during the house  move, although he now wasnt sure when it had happened  
 or exactly  what hed told the police.
Ageas said it wouldnt  cover Mr Gs claim as it couldnt establish exactly what happened  and 
if Mr G was insured for the losses. 
Mr G complained to us, and our investigator  said that, on the basis of what Mr G had said,  
he thought Ageas had acted fairly. He thought it was reasonable for Ageas to get Mr G to 
show it that what had happened to Mr G was covered  by his policy  and there was too 
much confusion to be sure. He suggested  Mr G get hold of a copy  of the police report, and 
that if that contained new information hes ask Ageas to look at the claim again. Mr G 
thought Ageas should do that and pay his claim. Ageas was unwilling to get the report as it 
doesnt think it will help.
Mr G is still unhappy about  whats happened, and Ive been asked to decide  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold Mr Gs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN94182902When a policy holder makes a claim on their house  insurance,  its up to them to show  the 
insurer that whats called an insurable  event  has taken place. Insurable events are listed  in 
the policy, and reflect the fact that no policy covers everything that might happen.
In Mr Gs case, he initially said the theft was during his house move.  But his policy only 
covers his possessions  during a move if the removal was done by a professional  removals 
firm. I think thats  fair  and from what Mr G said, he didnt use a professional company, so 
the theft wasnt covered if thats when  it happened.
Mr G then explained at least two other scenarios  for when his belongings might have been 
stolen. One was from his new house  but before  hed told Ageas hed moved  there. And 
even if it was at a later date  he didnt know how someone had broken in. Nor could he 
explain what  had happened if hed been keeping the items in his car, which was another  
option.
I do understand that Mr G has some  memory problems. But given there were several 
explanations for what might have happened, I think its fair for Ageas  to try to pin down  
exactly what did happen before it considered paying  his claim. 
In view of what Mr G had said about  his health,  we asked  Ageas to get the police report, and 
after some persuasion it agreed  to do that. It used  the crime reference provided by Mr G. 
However, the report that came back was for a crime at Mr Gs old address during the 
previous year. So it hasnt help to make  clear what happened in mid 2018.  
Overall, I think Ageas  has been  fair when it said it wouldnt  pay Mr Gs claim,  because its 
been unable  to establish exactly what did happen.  If Mr G has a further crime reference and 
can get a police report that does  support his claim,  Id expect Ageas to look at it again. But 
without further  evidence I cant say Ageas should  do more than it has.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019..
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9418290