K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C applied for a credit  card in a branch of Halifax in 2002.  The PPI was added to the credit  
card at the same time and protected his repayments if he couldnt  work due to disability or 
unemployment. It also included life and critical illness  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr C disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax should have  made it clear  to Mr C that the PPI was optional and got his agreement  
before adding it. While I cant be sure what was said in the meeting,  Ive looked closely at all 
of the information I have  about this sale, including what  Mr Cs said.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit card application Mr C signed and dated. It included  
a clear and prominent  box to mark if he wanted  PPI and a separate box next to it for another 
insurance product  it was selling. Theres a printed cross in both boxes. I think the 
application, together with experience of how Halifax sold PPI at the time, suggest there was 
a discussion between Mr C and the adviser about insurance. And that he chose to take PPI, 
knowing it was optional.
The parties agree that Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr C. This means it had to look into 
whether PPI was right for him. I dont know if it did that. But, from what Halifax  has sent me 
and what Mr Cs told me about his circumstances at the time of the sale,  I think the PPI was 
right for him in any case because:
He was eligible  for the PPI. And I dont  think he was affected by any of the main  
things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
He was a company  director  and says the business would have continued to operate  
if he was off work sick. While that might  have been the case,  I gather it was a 
relatively small company and Ive seen nothing to indicate his income wouldnt have 
been affected if he was absent.  The PPI covered him for unemployment too. Mr C 
says he had assets he could have sold if he needed to, and savings, but the PPI 
would have allowed  him to retain them or put them towards covering his other living 
costs if he wasnt working. Overall, I think he would  have valued  the extra security 
the PPI provided.  
Ref: DRN91673842Theres nothing to suggest Mr C couldnt  afford the PPI. And, if he no longer wanted 
it, the PPI was flexible  enough that he could have cancelled  it at no extra cost.
Halifax also had to make  sure it told Mr C enough about the PPI for him to make up his own 
mind about  whether it was right for him. And it had to do this in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way. I dont know for sure how much information Halifax  gave Mr C or how well it 
was explained.  But, for the same reasons I think the PPI was right for him, I dont think better 
information would have made  a difference to his decision  to take it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr C back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr C now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt 
already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9167384