K821x#15complaint
Mrs M and the estate of Mr N complain about the service theyve received in relation  to their 
claim for legal expenses under their policy with NFU Mutual  Insurance Society  Limited 
(NFU).
Where I refer to NFU, this includes  their agents and claims handlers. 
Mrs M and Mr N were  joint policyholders. For ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to Mrs M.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. The insured property under  this policy had for many years enjoyed  a 
right of way over a neighbouring  property  as a means of access. Mrs M says there is a court  
order from the late 1980s which confirms this. The original right of way included a right-
angle bend. But in practical terms this has been  used as a sweeping  bend  and included two 
passing places.  
In 2017 Mrs Ms neighbours installed some bollards along the edges  of the bend. She says 
these interfered  with her prescriptive  right to use the land. So she contacted  NFU to make  a 
claim for nuisance under  her policy. 
NFU asked one of their panel solicitors D to look into the claim. Initially  D asked for some 
witness statements to confirm Mrs Ms prescriptive  right over the land. Once satisfied with 
these, the claim was accepted. D wrote to Mrs Ms neighbour about the bollards. But when 
they learned that the bollards had been  removed, they said no cover was available  under the 
policy as there was no ongoing  legal  nuisance. 
Mrs M didnt  accept this and instructed her own solicitor B. She says that the neighbour 
issued a bare licence giving  permission  for her to use the right of way. But she feels this 
interferes with her prescriptive right to use the land. And she thinks her cover  should meet 
the costs of disputing the bare licence  and establishing an agreement. Her solicitor  B agreed 
on this point. 
Mrs M is also unhappy with the service  shes received from NFU and D. She feels she has 
been passed between NFU, their claims handler,  and D, and hasnt been able to get clear  
answers anywhere. Shes also unhappy that some correspondence was addressed  solely to 
Mr N when they are joint policyholders  and its clear that she was dealing with the claim and 
complaint. 
The matter  was referred to our service. One of our investigators thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.  She didnt think that Bs comments that they thought the claim should be 
covered had been sufficiently dealt with by NFU.  So she recommended that NFU reconsider 
the claim to establish  whether or not it was covered.  She also agreed there were failings in 
the service provided  by NFU and recommended that £250 compensation be paid for the 
trouble and upset  this had caused.
NFU didnt accept this and asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. In September 
2019 I issued  a provisional decision in which I said:
Ref: DRN98419412Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
the claim
The relevant  part of Mrs Ms policy is the property protection  section,  this says that cover is 
provided for:
A civil dispute relating  to an INSURED  PERSONs  HOME that an INSURED PERSON  
owns... following:
a)An event  which causes physical damage to such property but the amount in dispute 
must be more than £250;
b)A legal nuisance (meaning any unlawful interference  with an INSURED  PERSONS  
use or enjoyment of an INSURED PERSONs land, or some  right over, or in 
connection with it);
c)A trespass.
Provided that an INSURED PERSON must  have established the legal ownership or rights to 
the land that is the subject of the dispute.
Terms like this are common in legal expenses insurance and I dont consider this term to be 
inherently unfair. A policy  wont cover every possible eventuality and NFU are setting out 
what is and isnt covered.  
Part of Bs letter to the neighbours solicitor dated 8 October 2018 says:
We note from your previous correspondence  that your clients  have purported to grant  our 
clients a bare licence to use the swept curve and passing points. For the avoidance of doubt, 
our clients  require no such licence  as, for the reasons explained above, they already have 
prescriptive rights in respect  of these areas. Whilst there is presently no interference with our 
clients use of the swept curve and passing points, our clients cannot countenance  the threat 
of further interference occurring in the future. To resolve this matter conclusively they would 
therefore be prepared  to seek a declaration from the Court confirming the nature and extent 
of their prescriptive rights.
Mrs Ms own solicitor  concedes that there is no current interference  with her use of the land 
in question. I understand Mrs Ms point that the neighbour offering (or issuing) a bare licence 
is an interference with her right over the land as established by her prescriptive rights.  Ive 
seen an email between  D and NFU from July 2018.  This was written by a lawyer from D and 
makes clear  that in her opinion, as the obstructions have been removed, then Mrs M no 
longer has an actionable  claim. She also concludes  that if the bare licence isnt accepted, 
then it wouldnt affect any prescriptive rights she might have obtained. 
NFU themselves arent  legal experts. So I think its fair for them  to rely on suitably qualified  
legal opinion  when  making decisions about claims.  Im satisfied that the email Ive referred to 
came from a suitably qualified person at D. And as it doesnt  appear to be obviously 
incorrect, I think it is fair and reasonable for NFU to rely on that as the basis  of their decision 
to remove cover under the policy. 
Ive considered the evidence provided  by B of their opinion as to why the claim should be 
met. But Im not persuaded that this has evidenced  an ongoing nuisance. NFU responded to 
Ref: DRN98419413the further comments from B but concluded  that the action proposed was to establish  or 
agree a right of way, and not to respond  to a nuisance. 
What Mrs M seems  to be seeking  is a conclusive declaration as to the nature and extent of 
her prescriptive rights. NFU say this isnt something that the policy provides for. I dont think  
they are being  unreasonable in doing  so. Particularly as theyve said that if Mrs Ms 
neighbour takes action in the future  that does amount to a nuisance, then the policy  will 
respond. The policy is clear that legal action to establish ownership or rights  to land is 
specifically excluded, in line with the term quoted above. 
So overall, I dont  think NFU need  to do more in relation  to the claim. 
the service
Some of the service that Mrs M complains about was provided by D. And whilst D were 
appointed under the policy to act on her behalf,  NFU arent responsible  for the actions of 
solicitors, who have  their own regulator and ombudsman service.  I understand why this is 
important to Mrs M, particularly as she says she was told by D that her policy  would assist 
her as far as achieving  an agreement with her neighbours. But this doesnt change  the fact 
that D dont act as NFUs  agent and Im therefore  unable to comment  on their actions.  
Mrs M says that in March  2018 NFU ignored  her request to change  solicitors. Ive seen an 
email dated 27 March 2018 in which Mrs M says Where do I stand with regards  to going to 
another solicitor? I can see that NFU responded to this on the same  day explaining they 
had been in contact with D and that they would be in touch with an update.  
I cant see that this was followed up by NFU.  But Im satisfied  it was addressed  when Mrs M 
raised the issue again in June. NFU have  said that their staff member who dealt with the 
enquiry is currently on long term leave, so they might not be able to access her emails. And 
whilst I understand D may have  followed this up with Mrs M, NFU havent currently  been 
able to evidence  that they provided  the update they said they would. 
Mrs M is also unhappy that NFU didnt  respond  to contact from her own solicitor,  B. From the 
evidence Ive seen,  NFU responded via email  on 14 October 2018, 13 November 2018 and 
attempted to call on 26 October  2018. Based on this, Im not persuaded that NFU failed to 
co-operate or respond appropriately to contact with B. 
Mrs M complained that NFU sent correspondence  addressed only to Mr N, rather than to her 
as well. It isnt disputed  that this has happened. Mrs M has clearly  been the main person 
dealing with the claim and complaint. And whilst  Mr N is also a policyholder,  I can 
understand why Mrs M was frustrated by not being  addressed in the correspondence NFU 
sent out. 
Stepping back and looking at the service provided  by NFU as a whole during the claims 
process, I dont think there  have  been significant failings. But I think certain things could 
have been handled better.  I think NFU ought  to have  updated  Mrs M following her enquiry in 
March 2018. I dont think this made a difference to the claim itself, but I can understand why 
it caused Mrs M some frustration. And addressing the letters  to only Mr N again has caused 
some upset. 
Because of this, I intend to direct  that NFU pays Mrs M £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. I appreciate this is less than our investigator recommended.  But Im not 
Ref: DRN98419414persuaded that the impact  of the failings Ive outlined  was significant. Dealing with a legal 
dispute and or claim is always likely to be a stressful  time, and I cant fairly  attribute all the 
stress Mrs M might  have  experienced to the actions of NFU or their agents.  And overall Im 
satisfied that £100  is a fair amount.
Shortly after my provisional decision Mr N became unwell and sadly passed away  in October 
2019. It was agreed  the matter would be put on hold to allow  Mrs M more time to respond in 
the difficult circumstances. More recently Mrs M responded to the provisional decision and 
raised some further points  that Ill address below. NFU confirmed they accepted  my 
provisional decision and that they had nothing further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Id like to start by extending my sympathy 
to Mrs M for her loss. 
Much of Mrs Ms response to my provisional decision refers to things  she was told by or the 
actions of D. And as Ive explained above,  NFU arent responsible for the service provided 
by D who will have their own complaints procedure and regulator. So for the same reasons, 
Im not able to comment on the actions of D.
Mrs M says that the policy covers  a dispute that affects her established  legal rights. She 
believes the bare licence impacts  on her established  legal rights  and so cover should be 
available. Mrs M also provided  a more recent letter from B which  comments  that it would  be 
unusual for the policy not to cover the costs involved in establishing and asserting  Mrs Ms 
rights that are subject  to the interference (nuisance). 
The final sentence of the policy term quoted above specifically requires that the policyholder 
has first established the rights to the land that is subject to the dispute. This isnt an 
uncommon term in this type of insurance.  And clearly it is the first step to resolve a dispute 
of this nature.  But I dont  think  NFU are being unreasonable when concluding  that further 
costs to do so arent covered on the basis of that term. 
Mrs M has reiterated that the action she wanted  to take was to dispute and refuse the bare 
licence. She feels this hasnt been  adequately  addressed.  But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, the solicitor from D concluded  that the bare licence  wouldnt  impact on 
any prescriptive rights that Mrs M has. And I think it is fair for NFU to rely on this when 
concluding there isnt cover to under this section of the policy for a dispute about  the bare 
licence. 
If there have  been more  recent developments in the dispute which Mrs M feels amount to a 
nuisance, she should contact NFU and Id expect them to consider any new evidence 
submitted. 
Ive thought about what Mrs M has said in relation to the service she received and that NFU 
are responsible for. And I acknowledge  things could have gone  better. But in the context Ive 
explained (in that NFU arent responsible  for the actions of D), I remain  satisfied that £100 is 
fair compensation, so Im not going  to increase  this amount. 
Ref: DRN98419415my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Unless theyve already done so, National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  Society Limited 
must pay Mrs M £100  in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
estate of Mr N to accept or reject  my decision before 24 August 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9841941