K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about Bank  of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) for its handling of a request 
to withdraw funds. He says that Bank of Scotlands  refusal to release funds on the agreed 
day caused him to lose two days pay and the opportunity  of a good deal on a vehicle 
purchase. He wants compensation  for his losses. 
background
Mr M is self employed. 
In May 2018, Mr M arranged a business  loan with a third party, to release approximately 
£19,000 into his business account. 
On the day the funds  were received, Mr M called Bank of Scotland  to ask if he would be able 
to withdraw £8000 in branch that day in order to complete a vehicle purchase.  Mr M was told 
that he would need to attend a particular branch and would need to take additional  
identification, but that he would be able to withdraw funds.
Mr M had paid a non refundable deposit  for the vehicle  with an agreed  delivery  of that day. 
He needed the funds  to complete  the purchase and take delivery of the vehicle. 
He attended the branch as agreed, but staff in the branch asked Mr M additional security  
questions about  the source of the funds into his account. 
They then informed him that he would  not be able to withdraw funds that day, as a hold had 
been put on his account. He was told he would be able to withdraw  the funds the following 
day. 
Mr M spent  approximately an hour in branch, and made calls the Bank of Scotland  
complaints team. 
Whilst in branch he attempted to transfer  funds from his business account online and was 
unable to transfer the amount. 
Mr M was not able to proceed with his vehicle  purchase that day and says that he lost the 
opportunity of his purchase and lost his non refundable deposit. 
He was then able to withdraw  the cash the following day. 
Mr M made a complaint to Bank of Scotland who sent him their final response at the end of 
May 2018. 
This response apologised  for Mr Ms experience and explained that due to the amount of the 
deposit additional security checks had to be undertaken. It acknowledged that Mr M was 
given inconsistent information by being told that he could withdraw the funds and then being 
disappointed when  he attended the branch.  
Bank of Scotland offered Mr M £75 compensation for his inconvenience.  
Mr M was not happy with that response and he contacted us. 
Ref: DRN92791402One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out his view to the parties. 
This was that the business  is entitled  to carry out security checks on information and that we 
wouldnt normally consider the impact  of delays for security  checks as unfair. The 
investigator thought  that the offer of £75 was appropriate to the inconvenience  Mr M was 
caused by having to wait in branch and for his disappointment. 
Mr M was not satisfied with that view and asked for an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened  to the call recordings between Mr Ms calls and the business on the day he 
attended the branch, and I appreciate his frustration. I agree that he was put to 
inconvenience by being told he could withdraw  the funds and then being disappointed  that 
he was not able to withdraw  funds until the next day, pending additional security checks 
being carried out. 
Mr M has commented that he said he was advised in branch that where large amounts were 
received the bank wanted to ensure that the funds cleared before allowing a withdrawal. He 
feels that this was based on his not wearing  a suit, which he felt was discriminatory. 
The business has not stated its particular security  concern but acknowledged that where 
large funds  are received additional checks on the source of the funds are required. It 
reiterated that the bank is responsible for safeguarding accounts and funds. 
This is a reasonable position and I do not criticise Bank of Scotland  for undertaking relevant 
security, especially when the deposit  and attempted withdrawal were large. I have not see 
any evidence of this decision  being influenced by Mr M not wearing a suit and do not think  it 
likely that this was a consideration. 
Mr M was, however, misadvised that he would be able to withdraw  the funds immediately, 
and this caused him inconvenience. Mr M has not been able to provide evidence  of his lost 
deposit, or of the agreement for the vehicle purchase and so I am not able to consider his 
financial losses, or the impact of this lost opportunity on an award  for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
I appreciate though that Mr M has been caused  inconvenience in attending the branch and 
in making lengthy  calls.  I think that the offer of £75 is fair to reflect this inconvenience. 
Whilst I understand that Mr M will be disappointed  by this, I think  Bank of Scotland has acted 
reasonably in resolving  this matter. I therefore do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not 
ask the business to do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not ask Bank of 
Scotland Plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Ref: DRN92791403Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9279140