K822xcomplaint
Mr R says that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading  as Barclaycard mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr R or Barclays  sent me anything further  to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions     
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
I understand that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has already paid back  to Mr R any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I dont award nay further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject 
my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Ref: DRN96643022background
Mr R bought the policy in 1995. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In a letter dated 9 October  2019 to Barclays, Mr R says he was pressured into taking PPI as 
he was led to believe that his application  would be rejected if he didnt.
In a letter to Barclays  from Mr R dated 21 October 2018  Mr R has said I believe on the 
original paper application I would have not opted  to take the PPI
Mr R complained in his PPI questionnaire  dated  9 November 2018 that he completed an 
application form from a magazine pull out. He says he didnt want  PPI so he didnt  tick the 
box on the application. Mr R then says he received a phone  call from Barclays  when his 
application was being processed  and that he was pressured into taking PPI. He says he was 
told that the application would probably get rejected  if he didnt take PPI so he agreed to 
take it in order, in his opinion,  to be approved  for the credit.
In an email dated 6 December  2018 to our Service, Mr R makes a series of allegations about 
his application  form being changed or tampered  with after he submitted it. Mr R has further 
expanded on these allegations  after our adjudicators assessment. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint because:
I havent seen  strong  evidence  to support what Mr R has said about being pressured  
into taking PPI. Ive to come to my decision based on the available evidence. 
Based on the evidence,  there are inconsistencies  in Mr Rs testimony.  For example, 
hes told us in his complaint  from dated  9 November 2018 that It was a dual 
application for a Barclaycard Visa and a second  card of a Barclaycard MasterCard 
although I only wanted one card it was part of the promotion. 
But the copy of Mr Rs application shows that there were 4 options  for the type of 
card  take both a Visa and Mastercard,  already have  a Visa card or take a 
MasterCard or Visa card on their own. The option  for both cards has been ticked and 
Mr R has signed the application twice  once for each card.  
Ive also noted  that there are inconsistencies  regarding Mr Rs length of employment.  
In his PPI questionnaire  dated 9 December 2018, its been recorded  that Mr R had 
been employed for 4 years as a licensee/store supervisor.  
Ref: DRN96643023During Barclays investigation into Mr Rs complaint,  its been  recorded that he told 
them hed been employed as a Licensee assistant manager and had started in 
1993. But Mr R has referred  at another point to being employed for 4 years and 3 
months and has stated this is what he completed  on the application form before it 
was amended - he alleges, by Barclays. 
Given the time thats passed since the sale, approximately 25 years ago, its perfectly 
reasonable that Mr R may not recall  every detail accurately. 
Mr R said initially  that he that he would have left the PPI section blank as he didnt 
want it. He says he was then pressured  into taking  PPI during a phone  call. But the 
copy of Mr Rs application form shows two options  for PPI - to accept or decline it. 
The Yes  option  has been ticked.  If Mr R didnt  want PPI he could  have ticked the 
No option,  but I also accept that he could  have left the section blank  to not add PPI.
Ive not seen any evidence to support what Mr R has said about a telephone call 
taking place. But I also accept that Barclays records may not be complete given the 
PPI was sold so long ago.
On balance, I cant safely say that Mr R wasnt made aware  that PPI was optional or 
that he wasnt made aware that he had an option. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But Barclays still had to give Mr R good enough  information so that he could  
decide if he wanted to take PPI.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Mr R doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive noted Mr Rs comments regarding  Barclays upholding his complaint about the sale of 
PPI on the other card sold at the same time.  Whilst  I dont know the reasons for the other 
complaint being  upheld,  Barclays  has said that this was in error and they wont  be attempting 
to recoup any money they say they paid out in error. I dont currently  intend to uphold this 
particular complaint. 
Ive noted Mr Rs serious allegations of fraud  against Barclays.  Mr R has the option  of 
pursuing these fraud allegations through the relevant authorities if its something he believes 
to be true. 
Ref: DRN96643024I did make  Barclays  aware of the allegations to try and answer some of Mr Rs questions, but 
Barclays havent added anything new. Theyve said:
they believe Mr R added a sticker  to the application, over the employment  section  
and made an adjustment to the form; and
theyve also acknowledged  that the handwriting  on the second page  does  appear  
slightly different - but think that its the same handwriting as the first page. 
I wont be commenting on the specific allegations made about fraud in this decision or my 
final decision. Mr R has the option of pursuing  alternative avenues if he wishes to take the 
fraud allegations further.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. If Mr R or 
Barclays Bank UK PLC have anything further to add, they should do so by 26 July 2019. 
Ill then reconsider the complaint.
I do intend to tell Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, I dont 
intend to award  any further compensation. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9664302