K821x#15complaint
Ms W has complained about her property insurer U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) because 
whilst it mostly settled  her claim made after a water leak, it then accused her of fraud  and 
cancelled her cover. It said it may seek to recover its claim outlay from her.
background
Ms W found water damage to her home  in 2018 and called UKI. At first it told her to get her 
own plumber. Ms W had a contractor start work  and called  UKI again.  UKI accepts it should  
have involved itself directly before this. It agreed  to send  a loss adjuster to Ms Ws home.
The loss adjuster found that most of the kitchen  had been removed, including the ceiling. 
UKI was aware that the leak was from pipes in the courtyard  at the rear of Ms Ws home   
so it was unsure  why the ceiling had been taken down. Ms Ws contractor in a report  
which he instructed her to send  to UKI on the basis he couldnt deal with it direct for data 
protection purposes  said this had been necessary for health  and safety reasons.
UKI decided  that whilst it had some  concerns  about the claim, it would settle it. It noted 
there was sufficient evidence available (such  as photos from when Ms W bought the 
property) to enable it to determine the type of kitchen shed had before. Ms W had 
suggested the previous kitchen was of a specific name which  was in a different  style and of 
a better  quality. Whilst UKI could tell, from the photos, that this wasnt the case,  in 
June 2018 it settled with Ms W for the kitchen based on the price of a mid-range kitchen.
There were still some  things that Ms W felt UKI should pay. She was concerned  to note that 
the settlement  paid to date fell far short of the monies her contractor was asking her for.
Ms Ws relationship with her contractor  though  had begun  to deteriorate and following the 
loss adjuster visiting Ms Ws home in August 2018 she began  to feel that he had been 
over-charging her and completing poor work using cheap materials.
At the beginning  of August the contractor had contacted  UKI directly. It told UKI that it had 
stopped working  for Ms W and it hadnt contacted UKI previously as she had forbidden  it. 
But the contractor  said it now wanted  to assist  with UKIs enquiries. The contractor  told UKI 
that Ms W had been in total control of all the repairs, demanding that it provide prices for 
certain very specific things, like the style of kitchen and that everything  had been done at 
her direction,  such as taking down the ceiling  which  hadnt  actually  been  necessary. UKI 
began communicating  with the contractor but noted in its file that the contractors comments 
should be treated  with caution given its sudden contact and that most of what  the contractor 
was now saying was at odds with detail  it had provided in earlier reports.
One of the outstanding issues Ms W had been asking UKI to pay for were  oak worktops 
and a butler sink. The sales photos  showed a laminate  worktop and a modern-style chrome  
sink. Ms W said she had put the new worktops  and sink in shortly before the leak but had 
no receipts or evidence  of that work. The contractor earlier in the claim had told UKI it 
hadnt taken any photos of the kitchen units prior to their removal:
The only photographs in our possession are those of the pipework and damage  to walls 
and tiles. If we had been requested at the outset to supply  photographs we would have 
gladly done so
The photos  of the pipework had been forwarded to Ms W and she had sent them on to UKI.
Ref: DRN95509562After the contractor got in touch with UKI in August, it sent UKI a photo of the kitchen.  The 
contractor said this was taken on the morning  it was removed. It showed  a laminate 
worktop and a chrome sink (as in the sale photo). Ms W then sent UKI a photo  showing the 
kitchen with oak worktops and a butler  sink. UKI asked Ms W if she was sure this was how 
the kitchen looked immediately prior to the leak and she said she was. UKI then sent her 
the photo provided by the contractor. It said the file data for the photo showed it had been 
taken in the middle of those that had been taken  of the pipework. Ms W disagreed  she 
said the kitchen  was taken out in order to expose  the pipework and the photo now provided 
actually dated  back to a previous job the contractor had done for her. Ms W provided detail 
to show how the file data of a photo  could be changed.
UKI didnt  accept what Ms W had said. It considered the photo she had provided  had been  
created as it looked quite similar to the sale photo,  just with the worktops  and sink being 
changed. UKI accepted that there had been some difficulties between  Ms W and her 
contractor but it told Ms W it believed that, until things went  sour between them, they had 
been working together to gain from the claim. UKI said Ms W had committed fraud. It said it 
was cancelling  her policy from the date she provided the kitchen quote (for the better 
kitchen), 10 May 2018 and might seek to recover  from her its previous outlay. Ms W 
complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt that UKI had identified  discrepancies 
which Ms W couldnt explain, so its decision was correct.
Ms W was upset.  She responded  in some detail and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
The complaint was passed  to me and I felt UKI hadnt  shown its decision to accuse Ms W of 
fraud was fair and reasonable. I issued a provisional  decision to share my view with both 
parties. The parties have  now responded.  Ms  W was happy with my findings. UKI 
disagreed with them. Ive reviewed what UKI has said; my provisional  findings, its 
responses and my final findings  are set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
A lot has happened  during the course  of this claim. A lot of information and evidence exists 
in respect of that activity. My background above  is a summary of the key events  and put 
together in order  to set out the most important evidence in question. It would be impractical 
to produce a background which refers to everything, but I can assure the parties that Ive 
read and understood all their submissions. In light of that it is my view, in simple terms, that 
UKI has not done  enough to show its allegation of fraud is fair and reasonable. Ill explain.
UKI knows that this service, when an insurer alleges fraud, expects the insurer  to support 
such a finding  with strong evidence. What that evidence might be will depend on the 
circumstances of each  case. But we often  wont find that a list of discrepancies  or opinions 
from non-expert claim handlers will suffice. Particularly not if expert  evidence  on the issue  
could easily  have been obtained  but, for whatever reason,  the insurer  chose not to do so.
Its also the case that we wont  usually find an allegation of fraud is fair when its made too 
Ref: DRN95509563late. By that I mean where an insurer has some uncertainties about a claim but makes 
settlement and then chooses to allege fraud based,  at least in part, on evidence it had 
before it chose to settle the matter.
Here, in the main, UKI relied  on photographic  evidence when accusing Ms W of fraud.  But it 
didnt place either photo before an expert.
The photo  the contractor provided  clearly had to be treated with scepticism,  but UKI chose 
to rely on file data its claim  handler  says they found without seeking expert confirmation 
about that data.  Even when Ms W suggested  there  was a way the data may have been 
changed. Id add that UKI has not provided  evidence of the file data to this service, despite  
my direct request for it to do so.
Regarding the photo Ms W provided,  the claim handler took a view it had been  created 
because it looked  very similar to the sales  photo  and it didnt have any file data. UKI said 
the latter showed it wasnt an original photo.  But again  it didnt  have a digital photo expert 
give a view on whether  the photo  was genuine or not, or what  the absence  of file data 
meant. Nor did UKI ask Ms W  as far as I have seen  to provide an original of this photo.  
This is something I often  see insurers do where  key claim issues  revolve around 
photographic evidence.
All of which means  that it isnt clear  that;
the photo provided  by the contractor shows Ms W had lied about instating oak worktops 
and a butler  sink.
Ms W created a photo in an effort to claim more  from UKI than she was entitled to.
As for the quote  Ms W provided for the kitchen, UKI had its chance to consider  that and 
decide not to settle the claim long before  the contractor contacted it directly. It is my belief, 
having carefully considered UKIs  file submission, that it is only in light of his comments that 
UKI has taken the view Ms W must have known her claim wasnt reflective  of the kitchen 
she had before. Yet UKIs file also shows it was aware that it needed to treat the comments 
with caution. Other than the contractors  comments  and the photographic evidence  which  
Ive dismissed above  UKI received nothing new, which  wasnt  available  to it at the time it 
chose to settle the claim, which would have  given good reason for it to backtrack on that 
and allege that Ms W, in supplying that data, had committed fraud.
For the avoidance of doubt, having  seen reports and emails from the contractor as well as 
details of the exchanges which occurred  between the contractor and UKI, I dont think  any 
evidence provided  by him in an effort to discredit  Ms W can be trusted. At all. At least  not 
without some kind of independent expert verification, which  UKI has not provided. My view 
is that UKI acted unfairly and unreasonably  when it acted to accuse Ms W of fraud and 
cancel her policy.
I intend to require UKI to reinstate Ms Ws policy and remove the record  of the cancellation 
and the fraud from its own and any external  database. UKI will also have  to resume 
consideration of Ms Ws claim ensuring that anything outstanding is considered and, if 
appropriate, settled,  plus interest* from the date of loss until settlement is made. Further, if 
Ms W did eventually  find cover and that cover  cost her more, UKI will have to reimburse the 
increased sum until the point it reinstates cover, plus interest* on each increased amount 
Ms W paid from the payment date until settlement is made.  If Ms W wants  to keep  the 
replacement cover going forwards, UKI should cancel its reinstated policy from the date of 
Ref: DRN95509564the new cover and mark its records as having  been cancelled by Ms W. In that event UKI 
will only have  to pay Ms W for increased premiums until she accepts my final decision.
I also see that the accusation of fraud  and the absence of cover  caused Ms W a lot of 
distress and inconvenience. I understand she is a respected member of her community  
having previously  held important public roles.  I see that when UKI cancelled  her policy and 
her home and belongings  were without cover she felt unable  to leave the house, certainly 
not for an extended  period such as to take a holiday. I think  UKI should pay Ms W £500 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Im satisfied its unfair and unreasonable  
avoidance caused.
Id add that whilst I welcome both parties  to provide responses to my provisional  findings, 
Im unlikely to find that any expert consideration either party might now want  to provide  
could reasonably be considered at this stage.  In saying that Im mindful that this services 
position regarding  fraud is well known and there was ample opportunity for supporting  
evidence to be gained  before UKIs final position on the fraud was taken. Furthermore, I am 
considering whether UKIs position as taken was fair and reasonable  and my finding is it 
wasnt given what I perceive to be the lack of substantiation obtained for the key evidence 
UKI sought to rely on. So providing substantiation  now is unlikely to change  that view.
In summary  UKI said it had the right to review its claim decision when it received the new 
evidence from Ms Ws contractor. This it said had occurred in response to an email it had 
sent Ms W on 16 August  asking some questions so she must have requested  their contact. 
It noted there were  a number of inconsistencies  across a number of issues. It felt Ms W 
could have provided more evidence regarding  the photos and that I shouldnt criticise it for 
not gathering  expert evidence when its claim handlers assessment of the data should be 
sufficient.   
I understand that UKI had concerns  during this claim.  And I accept that new evidence  can, 
on occasion, give an insurer  good  cause to review  its previous position.  But here the 
reasons UKI used  for concluding fraud,  at least in respect to its previous claim concerns, 
werent based on anything new. It is one thing  to carry  out a review  and find new 
concerns which  change a view, and another to review and, with hindsight, decide  the 
original claim  decision  was wrong. The settlement meant UKI had moved past the point  
where it was fair for it to do that. 
UKIs file shows that the contact from Ms Ws contractor is likely unrelated  to that email. 
The contractor seems  to have taken upon itself to call UKI and this first occurs  on 1 August.  
I remain of the view that nothing the contractor has said or provided can be relied upon or 
taken at face value.  It is in light of that reason that I think that UKI, if it wanted to rely on the 
photograph the contractor had provided, should  have done  more  to independently and 
expertly verify it.
I dont share  the claim handlers concerns about the photo Ms W provided.  For example,  I 
dont agree that the position  of the photo is quite the same or that the shadowing  being  the 
same means the image has most likely  been  created. But a difference  of opinion  like this is 
exactly why UKI, if it had wanted to rely on the photo  having  been doctored as evidence of 
Ms W having committed fraud, should have placed  the image before a digital image expert 
 regardless of whether  or not the image showed  technical properties or not an expert could 
have given a view on whether the image  was likely  genuine. 
I see that in reply UKI has said this image was not really at the heart  of its accusation.  But, 
Ref: DRN95509565that being the case its fraud accusation rests on unreliable evidence provided by the 
contractor, which UKI has not sought to independently verify, and a list of inconsistences  
most of which pre-date its decision to settle  the claim. I remain  of the view that UKIs 
accusation of fraud was unfair and unreasonable. 
My provisional findings stand and have not changed.  They now form part of the findings of 
this my final decision. However,  Ms W has confirmed  that she did not take out alternative  
insurance. Therefore,  I will not include the redress which I had proposed  awarding in this 
respect in my final decision section. In all other respects my awards remain as those 
provisionally stated.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Reinstate Ms Ws policy, removing the record of both the fraud  and cancellation from its 
own and any industry database.
Resume consideration of the claim in respect of any outstanding elements and if any 
further settlement is made, add interest* to the payment  from the date of loss until 
settlement is made.
Pay Ms W £500 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to  the dates stated.  If 
U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from any 
interest due to Ms W, it should  tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Ms W a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9550956