K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about the amount that Platform Home Loans  Ltd told them it needed  
them to pay to redeem  their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs T say that in 2015  Platform Home told them that they would be due a refund to 
the mortgage of £600. They expected  this to be made at the end of the mortgage. And they 
have also disputed additional fees shown in a redemption statement.
The investigator noted that Platform Home  had now offered to waive a title management fee 
of £54. He did not recommend it do anything more.  There were some refunds made to the 
mortgage in 2015. There was nothing  to suggest that there  was £600 due now.
Mr and Mrs T did not agree and wanted  their complaint to be reviewed.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 December  2018.  I didnt think there 
was a basis for Platform Home to do more than its offered to. But I wanted  to explain my 
reasoning for this. And to allow  Mr and Mrs T the opportunity to comment  and tell me what 
they think. I set out below what I said.
the issues in 2015
Platform Home says that it identified two issues with Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage in 2015  which  
had also affected  a number of other customers.
The first was that after the mortgage was drawn in 2005 the first monthly payment did not 
include a capital element of £230.30.  This meant  that the balance on the mortgage had been 
higher than it should have  been.  And that additional  interest had been charged  on this higher 
balance for over 10 years. That additional  interest was calculated  at £161.75.
The second  was that Platform Home had reviewed its charges for arrears. And it had 
concluded that it did not think  those  charges were fair and reflected the work  involved. So it 
had decided to refund £156 of charges.
The combined amount  of these refunds is £548.05. It might be that this makes up most of 
the figure of £600, Mr and Mrs T refer to. I couldnt be certain of that but Platform Home say 
that no other refunds were identified or offered in 2015.
how the refunds  were  applied
In 2015 Mr and Mrs T were in arrears.  They wanted  Platform Home to use the refunds to 
reduce arrears. Platform Home said it would  not do this because  the refunds  would  be used 
to put them  in the position they should have been in. The refund of £230.30  was a gesture of 
goodwill  it was a payment  they had not made  to the mortgage.  But an underpayment that 
Platform Home accepted was its error. If it was not corrected at that time then the mortgage 
would not be cleared  by the end of the term. And the refund related to charges added  to the 
mortgage. It needed to be applied against  these or the charges would still be due.
Ref: DRN91412712Platform Home issued  a final response letter in October 2015 to Mr and Mrs T about the way 
the refunds relating to the underpayment were applied. That explained the treatment. I could 
see from a statement of their mortgage balances that the refunds of £230.30 and £161.75 
were made on 2 September 2015  and the arrears  fees on 14 October 2015. So theyve 
already had this money back and its been  reflected  in what they owe.
the redemption  statement
There is no further refund due when the mortgage  is repaid. The refund related to the first 
not last mortgage payment. This means  that Mr and Mrs T still needed to make all the 
payments to the end of the mortgage  term.
There were some other costs in the redemption statement of 11 May 2018 that Mr and Mrs T 
also have questioned. I dealt with them in turn.
There is a mortgage  exit fee of £20  Platform Home says that this was given  as £120 in the 
mortgage offer but had been  reduced. It is a normal cost to reflect  the administration  when 
closing an account.  There is a title management  fee of £54  this is the fee that Platform 
Home says it is going to waive as it cannot  show that it made  Mr and Mrs T aware of this 
when they took the mortgage.
I also noted that there are arrears charges of £41.86 which  Platform  has confirmed  is made 
up of interest on arrears. This was included in a category of charges called debt  recovery 
costs in a letter it sent to Mr and Mrs T in April 2018. Platform Home says that the refund of 
fees of £156 was more than the charges  of £116.56 over the past six years when it issued its 
final response in February 2018.
Platform Homes has looked  at a complaint about charges over the past six years.  Its 
reasoning is that Mr and Mrs T were  aware  of the charges  and that in line with our rules 
about bringing complaints they normally cant complain about things that happened more  
than six years ago.
I accepted that time period as reasonable here. Wed expect fees to be a reasonable 
estimate of the overall costs of managing  accounts in arrears.  It is right to say that all the 
fees over the past six years have been refunded. Interest  on the arrears has been charged.  I 
knew that since 2014 this has been shown separately  it had always been applied  - and I 
didnt think that this is incorrect. I could see that arrears most  recently  developed  in 
September 2017. A monthly  card payment then of £325 was less than the payment due of 
£472.42. Interest  has also been added for that arrears balance. 
my assessment
I thought it most likely that there  was a misunderstanding in 2015 about how the refunds 
would be applied. Platform  Home  said that it would not use them to reduce arrears. So Mr 
and Mrs T thought it was holding onto their money.  Id explained above why that wasnt the 
case. Id also looked  at the redemption statement and set out why I didnt think Platform 
Home needs to do more  than waive  the title management fee  as its now offered to do.
Ref: DRN91412713I was not clear whether the mortgage  has been  redeemed and whether that fee has been 
paid or not. But it either needs  to be waived or refunded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Platform Homes said that there was nothing else for it wanted  to add.
Mr and Mrs T wrote to ask for that the final decision be deferred. They said that they were 
disappointed by my provisional  decision. They said that Platform Homes  had worked  the 
figures so that the never saw any benefit  of the overpayments either through the alteration of 
monthly payments;  its reimbursement; or compensation. They did not understand why 
Platform Homes had not informed this service  that they had made a full payment and not yet 
received their title deeds. It has not yet sent them a breakdown of any monies  outstanding  it 
any that theyd  been promised. They say that they made a payment of £375 by debit card in 
September 2017 but that with the holiday period approaching they did not think that they 
could contact their bank about this before the original deadline for responses of 27 
December 2018.  Thats why they were  asking for more  time.
I took account of their request  and I asked the investigator to let them know  on 11 January 
2019 that I thought theyd had a reasonable period  to respond. I need to finalise my decision 
about the initial events complained about.  That wouldnt stop them  raising a new complaint if 
for example as they indicate a payment from September  2017 was not applied correctly  to 
the mortgage. I checked that the information Id received  showed  this as £325  not £375.  I 
considered Ive already dealt in my provisional  decision  with how the refund was applied and 
I think for the reasons Ive given they did not lose out.
If the mortgage is now fully redeemed Id expect Platform Homes to write to them to confirm  
this or else set out what if anything is still outstanding. But that does  not affect the 
conclusions of my review.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Platform  Home Loans Ltd to 
waive or refund the title management  fee of £54.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9141271