K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined to give them  an overdraft 
facility on their joint account.
background
Mr and Mrs M asked  Barclays  for an overdraft facility. But they say the application  was 
declined because Mr M had guaranteed a loan his son had taken  out with a short  term 
payday lender.  They  say this decision is unfair  and, as long term customers,  they want  the 
situation rectified so they can have an overdraft facility.
Barclays said in it final response that it understands Mr and Mrs M are disappointed with its 
decision. But their overdraft application was looked  at by several underwriters and 
unfortunately its unable to overturn its decision to decline the overdraft which  was made  in 
line with its policy.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Barclays appears to have properly assessed the overdraft application on various 
criteria including financial  commitments and credit rating. She hasnt  seen anything  to 
suggest it was unable to lend specifically  because of the guarantee given for the 
sons borrowing.
Barclays was within its rights to decide  whether or not it wishes to lend to a customer 
and under what terms. Its entitled  to make a commercial decision and we dont tend 
to interfere with its legitimate use of its commercial judgement.
Barclays hasnt made  an error.
Mr M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says Barclays hasnt 
made the decision for any other  commercial  reasons  as hes a good salary, credit rating and 
significant assets. Its made an arbitrary decision because he guaranteed a short term loan 
for his son. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration at not being granted  an overdraft facility given that 
they consider  themselves loyal, longstanding,  solvent  and good customers of Barclays. 
In this case Mr and Mrs Ms application for an overdraft  was assessed by a number of 
underwriters who have  applied Barclays lending criteria. The information its supplied 
suggests that the application was declined because  it considered  there was high interest 
external borrowing.  Theres  nothing to say that this only relates to the guarantee given by 
Mr M for his sons short term payday  loan.  But in the absence of any other high interest  
loans taken out by Mr and Mrs M, I think its reasonable to conclude that its more likely this 
relates to that guarantee and loan, than not.
Ref: DRN95096452Even if that is the case, the simple fact is Barclays is entitled to decide  what its lending  
criteria are and who it will give an overdraft facility or lend money to. Its entitled to take into 
account whatever  criteria it deems relevant  and appropriate. And that can reasonably  
include whether  a customer has any liability for or exposure to short  term, payday or high 
interest loans. 
I understand Mr Ms frustration at not being  given a more detailed  reason for what  he 
considers is an arbitrary decision. But Barclays isnt obliged to disclose either its lending 
criteria, as theyre commercially sensitive,  or to further explain or justify  its decision to 
decline their overdraft application.
I think Barclays considered the overdraft application in line with its lending  criteria. And its 
decision to decline the application has been reviewed on appeal  and upheld.  Its decisions to 
decline Mr and Mrs Ms overdraft application  are examples of it exercising its commercial  
judgment, as its entitled to do. And this isnt something in which we would normally get 
involved in. 
Consequently I cant reasonably conclude  Barclays has made  an error nor done  anything 
wrong. And I cant require  it to approve  an overdraft facility for Mr and Mrs M as theyd like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr and Mrs Ms frustration and strength of feeling,  I dont see 
any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9509645