K820x#14complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited was unable to refund a disputed purchase.
background
Ms H paid £49.99  for some photographs  at an event in January 2018.  The disk drive she 
received was faulty. So she returned  it by recorded delivery for a refund. But the merchant 
said itd never received  it. 
Ms H spoke to her credit card company and it looked into the matter. She sent Vanquis  the 
proof of postage.  And it removed  the £49.99 charge from her account. After  six months  she 
destroyed all her paperwork. But the charge had now been reapplied to her account. Ms H 
wants it removing.
Vanquis said Ms H had contacted it about  the disputed transaction. So itd credited her 
account on 5 March 2018 while it referred the dispute to the retailer. The retailer said it 
hadnt received  the returned  goods.  It seemed Ms H had sent them to the place where  the 
event had taken  place. Not to the seller. So Vanquis said it couldnt proceed with the 
chargeback. And itd taken the money back from Ms Hs account.  
Ms H wasnt  satisfied with Vanquis response. So she contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She explained Vanquis had reversed the transaction after 
Ms H had requested  a chargeback. But it wasnt a guaranteed outcome. And after 
considering the merchants  response  the chargeback had been rejected. So she couldnt ask 
Vanquis to do anything more.
Ms H didnt agree. She doesnt  want  to pay for something she doesnt have. So shes asked 
for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how upsetting this mustve been  for Ms H. But Im afraid Ive reached the 
same conclusions as our adjudicator and for the same reasons. 
Its important to realise that chargebacks  are decided on the card schemes  rules.  Its not for 
Vanquis  or me  to decide whether Ms H or the seller has the stronger argument.  
Vanquis role is to raise  the appropriate chargeback and consider whether any defence 
complies with the relevant chargeback rules. From  what Ive seen,  thats what Vanquis has 
done. The merchant  responded  with a valid defence. So Vanquis didnt feel it could take the 
matter forward. 
I sympathise with Ms Hs situation but I can only look at Vanquis actions. When  a 
chargeback is raised there is no guarantee it will be successful. The chargeback needs to be 
defended successfully by the seller  which in this case  it was.
Ref: DRN94781712When Vanquis wrote to Ms H in March 2018  it explained it had re-credited the amount to her 
account. But it said it would re-debit her account  if the merchant was able to defend the 
chargeback. And unfortunately  thats what happened.
From what  Ive seen the seller said the problem with the disk didnt mean she was unable to 
access the images. So it wasnt unsuitable or faulty.  And for the chargeback to be valid Ms H 
wouldve needed to return the goods  to the seller.  But it seems she mailed  the disk to the 
venue where the event took place.  And it didnt have  any connection with the seller. So the 
goods werent properly returned. 
I appreciate how disappointing  this must be for Ms H. But I cant say Vanquis has done 
anything wrong. It tried to raise a chargeback on her behalf. But it wasnt successful. And the 
refund was taken  back after the seller provided  a valid defence.  So I wont  be asking 
Vanquis to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9478171