K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr K had British Gas insurance  cover for his central heating  boiler  and system (but not for 
other plumbing and drainage such as his bath).  His central heating  boiler was mounted on a 
wall over a work surface in a utility room.  
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
Mr K reported to British  Gas that his boiler was leaking water. British Gas attended  on 24 
and 27 December 2018 but found  no leak from the boiler. 
On about 22 January 2019 Mr K instructed a third party engineer  who found the leak from 
the boiler. British  Gas visited  and did some work to repair that leak.  
Mr K complained that British Gas should reimburse him the third partys invoice for £250.00.  
He also complained that the leak had damaged the worktop and that British Gas should also 
pay him compensation for his distress.
In its final response letter  in March, British Gas said the third party  engineers invoice was 
unreasonable, as he only diagnosed the issue and didnt repair it. But the final response  
letter said British Gas would pay Mr K the £250.00  in addition to £100.00  for a new worktop.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought that - 
because British Gas failed to diagnose the leak on either visit in December 2018 - Mr K was 
out of pocket for the third party engineer of £250.00  and for the worktop of £100.00. She 
recommended that British  Gas should  pay Mr K £100.00 compensation in addition to the 
£350.00 paid for his out of pocket  expenses.
Mr K accepted the investigators opinion.
British Gas disagreed  with the investigators  opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review  
the complaint.  It says,  in summary,  that:
Mr K had the worktop replaced without giving British  Gas the opportunity  to inspect  
and repair it if appropriate. Whilst it agreed  to reimburse  the £100.00 for the worktop, 
this was as a gesture of goodwill. British Gas views this as its offer of compensation. 
The charge  of £250.00 was unreasonable as no repair was carried out and this was 
for a diagnosis only. However, in view of the inconvenience to Mr K, British  Gas 
agreed to reimburse this cost.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the photographs,  Ive seen a vertical board attached to the wall below the boiler. 
Ref: DRN90553832The policy covered up to £1,000.00 including VAT for getting access to make repairs  and 
making good afterwards.  The policy didnt cover  repairing water  damage unless British Gas 
caused it.
I dont think British Gas caused  the initial leak. There  was already a leak when Mr K 
contacted British Gas  thats why he contacted British Gas.
From its work history, I can see that on 24 December British  Gas suggested the leak was 
coming from the bathroom  upstairs.  
I accept Mr Ks statement  that more water  leaked  on 25 and 26 December. On 27 December 
British Gas again said there was no leak from the boiler. 
British Gas misdiagnosed the leak without removing the board to make access  under the 
boiler. British Gas misdirected the attention of Mr K towards the upstairs bathroom. 
From what  happened  later I find it likely that the boiler continued to leak. And a few weeks 
went by before the third party engineer visited.
Ive seen a photograph of some pipes under the landing floor.  So I accept Mr Ks statement 
that two men from the third party engineer spent three and a half hours making  access and 
tracing the leak. So I dont find the invoice of £250.00 unreasonable.
From a handwritten note on the invoice I accept  that Mr K paid it on 22 January. He was out 
of pocket by that amount. 
Mr K says he got the worktop replaced in February. Neither he nor British Gas has been able 
to send us a copy of the invoice for that.
British Gas reimbursed the £250.00 but I consider that this compensated Mr K for his 
financial loss of that amount. It didnt compensate him for anything  else. 
The British  Gas final response is unclear as to when it reimbursed the £250.00. On balance  I 
think the reimbursement followed  after the final response dated  18 March.  So Mr K was out 
of pocket for about  two months.  And I find it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to pay 
interest at our usual  rate.
The British  Gas final response didnt question the £100.00 for the worktop   nor say that it 
was paying it as a gesture of goodwill or as compensation. So  whilst Mr K cant  show what  
damage happened when  I dont  find it fair and reasonable to say that the £100.00 was 
compensation for anything other  than damage  to the worktop.
As I havent  seen evidence of when Mr K paid the £100.00, I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct British Gas to pay interest.
From what  Mr K said in his initial complaint, I dont think the misdiagnosed leak ever caused 
him to turn the central heating off other than at night. 
But I hold British Gas responsible for the two unproductive visits in December. I also hold it 
responsible for misdirecting Mr Ks attention to the upstairs bathroom  which  led the third 
party engineer to disrupt the floor on the landing. I dont doubt that all this caused  Mr K some  
extra distress and inconvenience when he was already suffering a leak.
Ref: DRN90553833I dont find that British Gas has done  anything to compensate for that distress and 
inconvenience. I find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay Mr K £100.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to:
1.pay Mr K simple  interest at a yearly rate of 8% on the £250.00 invoice from 22 
January to the date it reimbursed him. If British Gas considers that its required by 
HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr K 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
2.pay Mr K £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9055383