K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling  of a claim made under his 
buildings insurance  policy.
background
Mr R holds a buildings  insurance policy with Aviva. The policy  provided cover  for loss of or 
damage to his home by various events, including fire. If a claim was made Aviva could 
choose to settle  it by replacing, reinstating or repairing  the damage;  or by making a cash  
payment.
Mr R made  a claim to Aviva for fire damage. Aviva appointed various  representatives to 
progress and handle  the claim on its behalf.  Around two weeks into the claim Mr R 
appointed an assessor to handle the claim on his behalf. He felt thered been a breakdown in 
trust between him and Aviva,  and he wasnt convinced  of the main representatives ability  to 
handle the claim. Aviva  then appointed a new loss adjuster.
The new loss adjuster inspected the damage and Aviva then confirmed acceptance of the 
claim. This was roughly  four weeks after the fire. Over the next few months Mr R got tenders  
for the site clearance and a report for the repair work needed (which Ill refer to as the scope 
of works).  These  were  both approved by Aviva. Mr R then got tenders for the repair  work.  
Aviva accepted the repair costs as per the lowest tender and told Mr R that he could proceed 
on that basis. Aviva also noted there were extra costs in respect of a hedge that needed 
replacing.
Mr R then raised a concern with Aviva about  whether the scope of works sufficiently dealt 
with all the damage eg landscaping and planning  (which the scope of works allowed for 
separate tendering and hadnt been  quantified). Mr R also felt the current  technical drawings 
werent detailed  enough. He felt further  technical  input  was needed.
Mr R chased Aviva for written  approval of further technical input over the next 12 months.  At 
one point he put Aviva on notice  that he felt forced into appointing his assessor (and, by 
extension, into incurring the assessors  costs) by Avivas initial mishandling of the claim. He 
later told Aviva that hed informally  approached an architect to look at the respective issues.
A meeting took place between Mr R and Aviva  to discuss the outstanding elements of the 
claim. One of the issues discussed was a cash settlement of the claim, and whether that 
would include VAT.  Aviva  initially said it would only pay the VAT once repair invoices were 
submitted by Mr R. But two months  later it offered Mr R a cash  settlement of around 
£245,000 (including the VAT) for the building repairs  plus £25,000 for the contents. A few 
months later Aviva gave  Mr R a breakdown  of the offer so he could reconcile the figures.
Mr R complained to Aviva  about the way the claim had been handled. Aviva said it wasnt 
responsible for delays  in settling the claim.  It noted the settlement offer had been  sent seven 
months earlier but still hadnt been  formally accepted or rejected  by Mr R. Aviva also said it 
wouldnt reimburse Mr R for the costs  of his assessor as it didnt appoint  him.
Mr R later accepted Avivas offer as an interim settlement of the claim. I understand the 
money was paid to Mr R shortly after. Just over two years then passed before Mr R formally 
submitted his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Ref: DRN96242192my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I was minded to partially uphold the 
complaint. The relevant  parts of my provisional  decision  are repeated below, and they form 
part of my final decision.
delays
I didnt think there  were too many significant delays caused by Aviva  in the first 12 
months of the claim. The only unexplained delay I saw was a seven week period it took 
Aviva to approve the lowest tender. The remainder  was time Mr R ordinarily spent  
arranging the scope of works, tenders etc.
I thought Aviva did contribute to delays  during  the next 12 months ie following Mr Rs 
concern about  the scope of works being inadequate. I couldnt  see that Aviva had any 
significant involvement in producing the scope of works or the tenders; so I didnt think it 
was fair to blame Aviva if they were deficient.  But I couldnt see that Aviva  engaged with 
Mr R about the scope of works or the potential need  for further technical input. It 
effectively ignored  Mr Rs request for clarification on its position  about whether further 
technical input  was needed.
From  the end of the second year to the point that Aviva formally answered  Mr Rs 
complaint, there was initially  some time spent querying the VAT. Then, following Avivas 
offer, there was a further three to four month gap between Mr R asking Aviva for a 
breakdown of how its offer was calculated and the breakdown  being provided.
Overall it was about three years from the date of the fire to the date Aviva arranged  the 
interim settlement payment. I felt that was around 12 to 18 months longer than I would 
expect for this type of claim. As outlined above,  I didnt think  all the delays were caused 
by Aviva.  There were  also gaps  here and there where Mr R didnt actively chase Aviva 
for the clarification or information he was waiting for (although I accepted  it was possible 
that chasing Aviva might  not have progressed  things any quicker).  As an example, Aviva  
sent the acceptance form for the settlement in November  2015  but Mr R didnt ask for a 
breakdown of the offer until February  2016.
It was nevertheless clear to me that Avivas lack of engagement caused a significant 
delay in the settlement payment being  made.
VAT
Although this issue was largely  resolved by Aviva agreeing to include VAT in the 
settlement, it did cause some ill feeling and it was part of the argument Mr R put forward 
in respect of him needing  his assessor.
I explained that its not unusual for insurers to settle repair claims by initially  paying a 
policyholder the repair  costs net of VAT and to then pay the VAT element once repairs  
are complete. So I wasnt persuaded that Aviva had tried to underpay the claim by 
around £40,000  it simply  said it would only pay the VAT once Mr R provided invoices 
to show that he had paid the VAT (or was going  to).
I didnt therefore  think the assessors input led to Mr R receiving a settlement he wouldnt 
otherwise have got. It led to Aviva paying the VAT in advance, but I felt Mr R would have 
Ref: DRN96242193received that as part of the overall  settlement anyway  once  he provided Aviva with the 
relevant invoices (assuming he used a VAT registered contractor).
settlement offer
I understood the outstanding issue to be in respect of landscaping, hedges and outside 
space. Mr R said he couldnt agree any settlement in respect of these items as they 
hadnt been quantified.
Avivas offer included  an allowance of £2,796 for hedge/tree removal  and £10,000 for 
miscellaneous tree and hedge costs. The problem I faced  was that nothing  had been 
presented detailing how much the work  for the landscaping, hedges and outside space 
would cost  as Mr R said, the costs  hadnt  been quantified. However,  it was for Mr R to 
establish his claim  which included quantifying  the loss suffered. So, although I hadnt 
seen anything from Aviva detailing how its settlement figure  was calculated, I couldnt 
conclude that it was unfair because Mr R hadnt  shown what  it should be.
assessors fees
I wasnt persuaded by Mr Rs argument that he was forced by Avivas  poor claim 
handling into appointing the assessor. The claim was less than two weeks  old, and it was 
only three days since the main representatives initial visit, when Mr R appointed the 
assessor. At that stage, although  this was a major claim and Mr R doubted the 
representatives ability, there  is little in my opinion that had gone wrong to the extent that 
an assessor was the reasonable  option  to take in order  to get things on track. I cant  see, 
for example,  that Mr R discussed any concerns with either the representative or Aviva  
before appointing the assessor.  So I had some sympathy with the counter argument  put 
forward that it was Mr Rs choice to appoint the assessor; him not being  forced  into that 
course of action; and it being likely  that he wanted professional  representation  anyway.
However, I thought  Mr R appointing the assessor saved  Aviva  considerable costs in what 
it would  otherwise have paid its loss adjuster. For example, the assessor did all the work 
the loss adjuster would otherwise have done  (and charged Aviva  for) in arranging 
clearance of the site, the scope of works  and the tenders. And even if Mr R was 
premature in appointing  the assessor, I thought it likely  from what  Id seen regarding 
Avivas lack of engagement with Mr R over various issues that the assessors 
appointment would have  been necessary and reasonable at a later point in the claim.
Overall, I thought the fees charged  by the assessor were  for a combination of:
owork the loss adjuster would otherwise have charged  Aviva  for
owork progressing the claim  once  things went awry
owork Mr R would ordinarily have hired him to do anyway (even if things hadnt 
gone awry), and
owork in preparing and pursuing the complaint.
I rarely  think   and I didnt think so here - its necessary for consumers to get 
professional help to pursue a complaint with us. Thats because were a free and 
informal service,  and consumers dont need to make  detailed  submissions.
I thought it was fair for Aviva  to contribute towards the costs in respect  of the first two 
bullet points. But it was difficult  for me to quantify how much that should be because I 
Ref: DRN96242194hadnt seen any detailed invoices showing how much was charged for what work. The 
assessor had nevertheless told me that his fees amounted to around £20,000, and I was 
prepared to accept  that at face value as they didnt seem too excessive given the size 
and nature of the claim and complaint.
Without more detailed information, I thought a fair outcome was for Aviva to pay Mr R 
£10,000 in respect of the assessors  fees.
compensation for distress and inconvenience
I explained that I dont punish  or fine businesses just because  things  go wrong  I award 
compensation to make  up for any unnecessary distress or inconvenience theyve 
caused. I also dont  make businesses pay compensation for distress and inconvenience  
a consumer would ordinarily suffer in any event.  I thought in this case that even if things 
had progressed smoothly from day one the claim and the nature of the damage would 
have inevitably caused Mr R significant distress and inconvenience.
Aviva  contributing to the delay in the settlement payment being made led to Mr R having 
to live for longer  than he ought  to have  with the property not being  fully restored. I also 
felt the continued delays added  to Mr Rs frustration. I felt £1,500 compensation was fair 
for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Aviva confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision but didnt provide any further  comments.
Immediately after I issued  my provisional  decision the loss assessor  told me that his fees to 
date were £30,000 with a further £7,000 due. I explained that I was unlikely to consider 
making Aviva pay more than the £10,000  Id suggested without substantiation  being 
provided showing the costs Mr R had incurred.
Mr R provided  various comments and documents, the upshot being  that he didnt agree with 
my conclusions. Ive commented on these as necessary below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To keep  things simple  Ive used the same  headings  as above.
delays
In response to my provisional decision Mr R said I needed to consider more  evidence 
detailing the delays that occurred in the first 12 months of the claim. He also said Id placed 
the responsibility on him to do all the work such as arranging the scope of works/tenders.
In deciding the case I can only consider the evidence that is presented by either party.  I 
explained in my provisional decision  that the chronology of events Id outlined (which  was 
only a summary of what had happened) was based  on various emails that Mr R had 
provided to us as part of his complaint submission.  That remains all I have seen to show 
what happened throughout the claim. So its all I can base my decision on.
Ref: DRN96242195For any insurance claim its the policyholders responsibility in the first instance  to prove 
their claim. What  that essentially means is that they must show that:
1.damage has been caused  to insured property by an event covered by the property;  and
2.the extent of the loss suffered.
Thats because until a claim has been  proven it hasnt  been shown that the insurer has any 
liability.
However, in many claims insurers will appoint a loss adjuster or other such  expert to 
takeover or help the policyholder prove the claim  they will investigate what happened, 
assess what has been damaged, and work out what needs to be done in respect of repairs  
or replacement. Although  Ive noted Mr R comments in respect of the real motives  I believe 
thats what happened here when  Aviva appointed its initial  representatives.
In any event, I think Avivas initial actions/intentions were superseded by Mr R appointing his 
loss assessor. Immediately after he was appointed the assessor arranged for a surveyor  to 
attend the site in order to prepare the scope of works and to move  towards  tender. This in 
effect, in my view, meant Mr R  through his assessor   took ownership of his responsibility 
to prove his claim.
It remains my conclusion  that it took 12 to 18 months longer that it ought to for Aviva to 
arrange the interim  settlement.  It also remains my opinion that whilst Avivas  lack of 
engagement caused a significant  delay, not all the delays were caused by Aviva.
VAT
No further comments  were made in respect  to what Id said in my provisional decision, so 
theres nothing further for me to consider. It remains my conclusion that the assessors input  
didnt lead to Mr R receiving a settlement he otherwise wouldnt have got.
settlement offer
In response to my provisional decision Mr R provided me with a report that detailed the 
issues remaining regarding what I described  as the landscaping, hedges and outside  space.  
And he said the amount Aviva had offered would  unlikely  be enough to cover  this. Mr R also 
questioned where it said in the insurance  contract  that its his responsibility to provide costs  
for landscaping.
Ive already mentioned above  what Mr Rs responsibilities are in respect of proving his claim 
 hence the need  for him to provide the costs. In addition, in this complaint Mr R is 
essentially arguing that Avivas offer is insufficient/unfair. I therefore think  its for him to 
support that argument with evidence such as a quote/estimate showing how much the work 
will be.
Ive read the report Mr R provided but I dont think it moves this matter forward.  I said in my 
provisional decision that the problem  I faced was that nothing had been provided which 
showed how much  the work for the landscaping, hedges  and outside  space would  cost.  The 
report doesnt give any information in that respect. It may be, as Mr R says, that Avivas offer 
isnt enough to cover the work  needed.  But he hasnt  shown that to be the case.  So I cant 
Ref: DRN96242196conclude that Avivas offer was unfair. And I cant make Aviva increase its offer when  I dont 
know how much  it should  increase  it too.
assessors fees
Mr R made  several comments on this issue in response to my final decision,  eg:
the stress and confusion caused  by the main representatives first visit and Avivas  
incompetence were  reasonable  reasons for him to look for support
Aviva  wanted to manage the claim initially but it didnt do so effectively
he felt there was an immediate breakdown of trust as there were early warning signs  
that Aviva couldnt be trusted (he says Aviva not provided me with its file supports  
this).
He also referred to the considerable  work  the assessor had done in managing  the complaint 
to us and he asked how that gets compensated.
Mr R said that the main representatives  priority  at his first visit appeared to be to trick him 
into saying something  that would enable  Aviva to decline  the claim. There  can be a 
difference of opinion  following a visit by an insurers representative  one policyholder might 
think the questions  asked are irrelevant, devious or an attempt to trick them  into saying 
something whereas  another policyholder might  find the same questions  appropriate.
I dont know the nature of the questions  asked by the representative  so I cant decide  for 
myself whether they were  appropriate or not. But in the context of this overall issue  and my 
final decision, I dont  think I need  to dwell on the point about  whether Mr R was forced  into, 
or had little choice  other than to, appointing the assessor.
Thats because even  if I agreed with Mr R that it was reasonable for him to appoint the 
assessor when he did, it remains my view that the fees charged  by the assessor  were  for a 
combination of work  not all of which I would  make Aviva to pay for eg the work in preparing 
and managing the complaint. It also remains that despite me intimating its what  I would 
need I havent seen any evidence showing the costs Mr R has actually incurred  (and/or will 
incur) or what  work those costs specifically  related  to.
It therefore remains my conclusion that a fair outcome  is for Aviva to pay Mr R £10,000 in 
respect of the assessors fees.
In respect of Mr Rs question about  compensation for the work the assessor  has done in 
managing the complaint to us, I dont award  compensation  to third parties for their costs, 
time etc. It is only Mr R that is party to the complaint so I can only award  compensation for 
costs hes incurred or distress and inconvenience  hes suffered. Ive decided  on the costs 
hes incurred above; and I will comment on the distress and inconvenience  below.
compensation for distress and inconvenience
In response to my provisional decision Mr R asked how his time gets calculated.  He also 
said he was still living in the property with it not being properly restored.
The compensation I award for distress  and (particularly) inconvenience encompasses  the 
time spent  by a consumer  in trying to sort things out. That compensation is not calculated on 
Ref: DRN96242197a per hour  or similar  basis. Essentially, I decide a figure that I think  is fair based on all the 
circumstances of a complaint. And my conclusion remains that £1,500 is fair in this instance.
I can only award compensation  for distress  and inconvenience that has actually been 
suffered  I dont award it for what might (and therefore might not) be suffered in the future.  
Consumers are free to make additional  complaints if a claim is ongoing  and distress  and 
inconvenience continues  to be suffered. To avoid  any doubt, Ive only considered the 
distress and inconvenience Mr R has suffered up to the point where Aviva issued its final 
response to the complaint.
sundry
In closing, Ive noted  Mr Rs view that the most  important evidence  in this case is the lack of 
evidence provided  by Aviva. It is disappointing that Aviva hasnt provided what  I asked  for. 
And thats effectively meant that it hasnt provided any defence. But I dont  think that 
automatically means that Aviva has things to hide or that I should just uphold  the complaint 
and make Aviva do what Mr R wants. It remains that Mr R still must support his complaint  as 
he would  have to do if Aviva provided  its files.
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr R:
£10,000 in reimbursement of the assessors fees, and
£1,500 (less anything  that might already have been paid in this respect)  compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9624219