K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain they were  mis-sold  a reviewable whole of life policy by ReAssure 
Limited (the business).  
Theyre unhappy about the premium  increase which  has gone from £20 a month to almost  
£100, and the sum assured which has reduced  over time. 
background
In 1988, Mr and Mrs W were advised to take out a reviewable whole of life policy.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but didnt think  it should be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
He was satisfied  the business  made  reasonably clear the reviewable nature and 
operation of the policy at the point  of sale. 
Mr and Mrs W had raised a similar issue in 2005  when they were  given similar  
information again and they continued with the policy. 
Even if Mr and Mrs W werent aware of the reviewable nature of the policy in 1988,  
its clear that they were in 2005.  
In 2005 the business  also waived the debt that had built up, because of an error it 
had made, so Mr and Mrs W didnt need to increase the monthly premiums at the 
time. 
The recommendation was suitable. 
As Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  view and have asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, Im not 
satisfied that the reviewable whole of life policy  was mis-sold or unsuitable. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling about this matter. 
They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr and Mrs W and the business, and reach  what  I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
Ref: DRN95132112In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its important to reiterate  that the type of policy Mr and Mrs W are complaining about is 
known as a reviewable whole of life insurance. Its not set up for a specific  term, but is 
instead designed to pay out on death  whenever  it occurs. 
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. 
Some businesses provide illustrations, which can only give an indication of what the cost of 
premiums are likely  to be, they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of or increased cost of 
the premiums.   
In simple terms, each premium paid into the policy is split two ways.  The first part is used to 
pay for the cost of cover in that month.  The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. So, 
its not practicable to invest more  of the premium.  
The cost of the cover is also not fixed and actually increases with age. This doesnt  mean  
the policy is age discriminatory it just takes account of the higher risk the insurer will have 
resulting from customers increased age. In this case the hope is that the investment 
element will grow enough to fund the shortfall  when the policy reaches the point that the cost 
of cover becomes  greater  than the premium.  But again there are no guarantees. 
Policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the original 
assumptions. But at each  review, the insurer also needs to make new assumptions about 
the cost of cover and investment performance in the future. Thats why its virtually 
impossible to predict future premium increases and percentages. 
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review,  usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed  usually  meaning the policyholders will be offered the choice of either paying a 
higher premium to maintain the same level of cover  or accepting  reduced cover for the same  
premium. This explains why Mr and Mrs Ws premiums have increased over time to maintain 
the sum assured, but also the sum assured  reduced  when they chose to maintain the 
premium.   
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs W have said they were (and werent)  told about 
the policy when  it was arranged. But having considered  everything  they and the business 
have said, I dont think their comments alone are enough for me to say the policy  was mis-
sold. I must  take into account the explanatory literature that the business says they were  
given when the policy started, but also in 2005 when they raised a similar  issue  with the 
business.  
This explains the premiums were  reviewable and were subject to increase. So on balance, 
Im satisfied the policy allowed the business to do what it was doing and that it didnt mislead  
Mr and Mrs W about how it would work.
In other  words Im satisfied that they were made aware that the policy  was reviewable and 
that the premiums  were  likely to increase  to maintain the level of cover they wanted. 
Ref: DRN95132113I appreciate Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isnt what  they want to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate their frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business  to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give 
Mr and Mrs W what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9513211