K821x#15complaint
Mr Z complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to him irresponsibly. He also 
complained that he had trouble setting  up his repayment plan with Drafty. He wanted Drafty 
to write off his outstanding balance at that time  November 2018   as part of the redress.  
background
Drafty offered a credit  facility which commenced with a limit being determined and then the 
customer was able to draw down the amounts they require. The credit  was unsecured and 
had no fixed duration.
Draftys records  show that Mr Z applied for £100 as a loan. Mr Z declared  a monthly income  
of £1,600 with outgoings  of £575 which Drafty appears to have increased to £835 for the 
purposes of its assessment. Drafty  says that it carried  out checks. The credit  facility with a 
limit of £700  was arranged for Mr Z in February 2017.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some  assumptions to 
illustrate the likely  cost to Mr Z. On the assumption that Mr Z drew  down  the full £700 on the 
first day and then repaid  it over 12 months  in equal  instalments  then the total amount 
payable would have  been just over £936.  This would have  equated to repayments of about 
£78 a month.  
The arrangement did include  a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced  
ten days before Mr Zs salary payment date, and it gave the minimum payment required for 
that cycle. It had to be the higher of certain  calculations in the agreement  at clause 6 which 
I have not set out here. A Continuous  Payment Authority (CPA) was used  to take the 
minimum payments on or near Mr Zs monthly  salary date. Other  ways  of payment were 
made available.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that Draftys initial  approval  for 
the account in February 2017  was satisfactory. And that Drafty ought to have realised that 
Mr Z was showing over reliance on the facility  and it should have stopped  providing  further  
funds on it from 8 November 2017.
Mr Z had nothing  else to add. Drafty has not responded. The complaint  remained unresolved  
and was passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the credit  was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should  take 
proportionate steps to understand whether  the consumer will be able to repay what  they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely  impacting  on their financial situation.  
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
Ref: DRN94609982number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Mr Z has not added  any points after our adjudicators opinion and so appears content that 
the initial offer of the facility in February  2017  and the credit  limit was appropriate. So, I say 
no more about  it. 
Drafty has not provided any further comments following  the adjudicators opinions on how 
the account was monitored and run after February 2017. I have reviewed all the information 
and come to the same  conclusion. 
Mr Z sometimes missed  a minimum payment deadline  and then his account was suspended 
by Drafty  Mr Z cites emails he had received from Drafty to tell him this. One such  situation  
arose in July 2017 a few days later, after Mr Z had rectified the situation, he says that he 
received an email increasing his credit limit to £1,050 and received emails from Drafty 
reminding him that he still had capacity to draw down more credit. 
One example  of the situation Mr Z found himself  in was that the September 2017 statement 
shows a payment of £700, Mr Z then made eight separate withdrawals in around six weeks 
which again took the balance back to the credit  limit of £1,050.  Its evident  these withdrawals  
were made in short succession of each other and generally followed payments made for 
similar amounts  only a few days before.
So overall, I think that Drafty should have intervened earlier than it did, and I uphold  Mr Zs 
complaint from the 8 November 2017  draw  down. That means that all interest  and charges 
incurred on the draw downs before that date remain due and owing Mr Z needs to repay 
them, if he hasnt already. But after that date the redress section below should explain what 
ought to happen next. 
I know that Mr Z wanted his outstanding balance to be written off, but I have not seen 
anything to justify  that. It is not usual for me to direct that capital sums for which the 
consumer has received the benefit  ought to be written-off. And Mr Zs circumstances are no 
exception.  
setting up the repayments 
I have seen an email from Mr Z to Drafty on 17 October 2018  to say that he wished  to 
commence a £50 a month repayment  plan as he and his wife had some financial trouble. He 
was offering to commence this on 27 November 2018. 
Drafty replied and offered help and advice  on 20 October 2018.  It had received his Income 
and Expenditure  form. It said it had stopped the CPA and had was content with his offer to 
repay £50 a month. There then followed a period when Mr Zs acceptance of Draftys 
agreement to his offer got a little tangled up. And in the middle of this Mr Z was receiving 
chase up texts and emails due to what  appeared to be lack of payment. 
Eventually Mr Z complained around  7 November 2018 which was acknowledged and then 
he was sent the final response letter (FRL) from Drafty on 22 November 2018.  
I can see that period  was frustrating but in its FRL,  Drafty had responded within a few weeks 
of initially acknowledging  his complaint in November 2018 which is within  the timescale 
I would expect for a complaint. And the FRL tells me that Drafty had removed some  interest  
Ref: DRN94609983to recompense for that time during which Mr Z had been chased for payment,  and Drafty  had 
arranged for the repayment plan to commence on 27 November 2018 for £50 a month. As 
Mr Z had wanted his repayment plan to commence on 27 November 2018  and as Drafty did 
succeed in putting that in place I dont feel any further award  is needed.  
I appreciate the texts  and emails asking for money  may have caused some concern but 
Drafty had explained  that he may receive some of these.  And the removal  of some interest 
to recompense was enough, I think.  
Overall, I think that was fair. And so, I do not uphold this part of Mr Zs complaint. 
putting things right  what Drafty  needs to do now
There may be an outstanding balance still. If Drafty has sold the outstanding debt Drafty 
should buy this back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. 
If Drafty is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results  outlined  below.  Drafty  needs to:
A) remove all interest,  fees and charges from the account relating to any drawdowns taken 
after 8 November 2017;
B) treat all payments  Mr Z has made  towards the account after 8 November 2017 as though  
they had been repayments of outstanding principal;
C) if at any point Mr Z would have been in credit on his account after reworking the account, 
Drafty will need to refund  any overpayments with 8% simple  interest* calculated on these 
payments, from the date they would have  arisen, to the date the refund is made;
D) if there is an outstanding principal balance, then Drafty can use any refunds calculated  as 
part of C to repay  this. If a balance  remains  after this then Drafty should  try to agree an 
affordable repayment  plan with Mr Z, or continue with one if there is one in place already. 
If Drafty has previously written-off  any principal,  then Drafty shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made  up only of principal Drafty has already written-off;
E) Once the debt has been paid off, or if it already has been repaid, then Drafty  should 
remove any adverse payment information  recorded  on Mr Zs credit file for entries  after 
8 November 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to deduct  tax from this interest. It should give Mr Z 
a certificate showing how much tax Drafty has deducted if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Zs complaint in part and direct that Gain Credit  LLC 
does as I have  set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9460998