K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with their travel  
insurance claim. My references to UKI include its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs B say that from about  2017 they have had travel  insurance through their bank 
account. UKI is the insurer.
In 2018 Mrs B had a knee operation. The surgery was four months later than originally 
scheduled due to hospital delays. It meant  Mrs B wasnt fit to travel and Mr and Mrs B 
claimed for holiday cancellation.
Mrs and Mrs B complained about the detailed information UKI kept asking  them to provide 
about their claim. They want UKI to pay them compensation  as they feel they were 
harassed for the information. They also want UKI to pay the claim for their lost holiday 
costs, but at the time Mr and Mrs B complained  to us UKI hadnt decided  whether to accept 
the claim.
UKI said it had been unable  to make a decision on the claim as Mrs Bs GP refused to 
provide the information needed. It had agreed to pay any additional costs  Mr and Mrs B 
incurred in trying to get the information  from the GP. 
Our investigator thought UKI hadnt  handled  Mr and Mrs Bs claim fairly and promptly. She 
thought it had continued to ask the GP for medical information when it had enough evidence 
to make a decision on the claim. She also thought there was also a lack of communication  
by UKI. She recommended UKI pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience it caused  Mr 
and Mrs B.
UKI disagreed. It said needed more information  from the GP about the medical  condition,  not 
just the procedure, which caused  the cancellation. It didnt accept it had caused  delay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision  is just about the service UKI gave Mr and Mrs B when assessing the claim. 
I understand UKI has now made  a decision  to decline the claim.  Our investigator has 
correctly explained  to Mr and Mrs B that if they disagree with UKI's claim decision they will 
need to make a separate complaint. This decision isnt about  whether UKI fairly declined  the 
claim.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say UKI has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly,  and I dont think UKI did. I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers cancellation if Mr or Mrs B are seriously ill but not if the claim is the result 
of a pre-existing medical condition that UKI hasnt  agreed to cover.
UKI acted  reasonably  in wanting  a medical  certificate from the GP as part of the claim 
assessment. UKI received  the medical certificate  from Mrs Bs GP in early December 2018. 
Ref: DRN90580792In response to the question what is the condition that caused  the claim the GP answered  
waiting for revision  knee  operation. 
UKI said it needed more  information about  the actual medical condition to decide  the claim. 
But from the answers the GP had already provided to other questions  on the certificate UKI 
was also told that Mrs Bs medical  conditions symptoms were  first present in 2016, when 
shed her initial operation.  Also in October 2017 shed been put on the waiting list for the 
revision operation.    
UKI knew the date the policy started  and whether it had agreed to cover Mrs Bs pre-existing 
medical conditions.  It had the date the conditions symptoms and treatment started. So on 
receipt of the medical certificate in December 2018 I think  UKI did have enough information 
to decide whether the pre-existing condition exclusion applied. I note that in December 2018  
UKI warned Mr B about the pre-existing condition issue, it said to manage his expectations.
But UKI continued to ask the GP for more  detailed information. The GP responded in 
January 2019  but UKI asked for further information  which went  on for several months  with 
the GP not responding. UKI says it was acting in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests to try to get 
as much information as it could to assess the claim. But its clear from Mr B's communication  
with UKI that he was very frustrated about  its handling of the claim.  His and Mrs Bs 
frustration could have  been avoided if UKI had made its decision in December  2018,  as 
I think it was in a position  to do. If Mr and Mrs B didnt agree its decision they could have 
gone through the usual  complaint process. 
In addition, UKI requested the holiday booking  invoice  from Mr and Mrs B after it received  
the medical certificate. That caused Mr and Mrs B a lot of work  and further frustration as 
there were problems with the travel agent  providing the correct invoice. I think  that could also 
have been avoided if UKI had made  its decision based on the medical certificate  information,  
which it could reasonably have done. 
I also think there was a lack of communication from UKI to Mr and Mrs B particularly from 
14 February 2019 to 2 April 2019.  UKI said it left Mr B a voicemail at the end of 
January 2019  to discuss the claim but he didnt call back until 2 April. UKI acknowledged  that 
during that time the medical practice called but as UKI didnt at that stage have Mr and 
Mrs Bs authority to discuss the claim it didnt progress the matter. I think, given that UKI had 
placed such importance on getting more  medical information, it would have been reasonable 
for UKI to contact Mr and Mrs B at that point to ask for their authority rather than wait until 
his contact in April. 
Mr and Mrs B have  been distressed and inconvenienced by the poor service UKI gave when 
it was assessing  the claim. I think the £200 recommended by our investigator  is a fair 
amount of compensation in recognition.
Ref: DRN90580793my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B £200  compensation for their distress 
and inconvenience  its poor service  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9058079