K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  Ms G took out in 2004 
with a store card. Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL)  has accepted responsibility 
for this complaint,  so Ill refer to it as the seller  in my decision.
Ms G says FICL mis-sold her the PPI policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Gs case.  Having  done so, Im upholding her 
complaint for reasons  that Ill now explain.
FICL says this was a non-advised  PPI sale and I think this is likely to have been the case.  
This means  that it didnt need to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Ms G. But it did 
need to give her enough information so that she could make an informed decision about 
whether to take it or not.
Ive seen a copy  of the application form which Ms G signed for her card account.  And I can 
see that this shows  the cost of the PPI attached  to the card as 1.5p for every pound  shown 
on the monthly statement balance. But I dont think its clear  on this application  form that this 
cost would be added to her account balance and that it would attract interest.  And I think its 
unlikely that this important information would have been made clear enough to Ms G by the 
sales representative she spoke to or any other written information provided to her at the time 
of the sale.
From my understanding of Ms Gs personal  circumstances  at the time of this sale,  I think  that 
FICLs failure to disclose  full information about the costs of the PPI would have  mattered to 
her. I say this because  it would seem that Ms G was eligible for generous sick pay at the 
time of the sale. And Ms G says she also thinks she would  have had some  savings then,  
although she cant remember  the amount of these. So I dont think that its likely that Ms G 
had a strong need for the protection  this PPI policy gave her. I think  she had other means 
she could have used  for a time to make  her card repayments if she wasnt able work.  And if 
shed been given better information by FICL about its costs, I dont think she would have still 
thought the policy was worth paying for and agreed to take it.
So on the basis of the all the information  available to me, I think that Ms G has lost out 
because she wasnt given  enough information  about  the true cost of the PPI policy  by FICL.
Ref: DRN98651002putting things right
FICL should put Ms G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Ms G would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms G owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Ms G would  have owed 
when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when FICL works out what Ms G would have owed each month without  PPI  Ms G 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Ms G paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms G would  
have owed FICL something on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL  should tell Ms G what its done to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms G that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give
Ms G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im upholding this complaint. I require 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 Fenruary  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9865100