K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank unfairly  
blocked two attempted transactions.
background
Mrs R says she tried to use her M&S credit card whilst abroad and later to buy airline tickets 
but on both occasions the transactions were blocked. Mrs R says she was caused 
embarrassment on the first occasion  and lost about £400 on the second occasion as the 
flight prices went  up. She would like M&S to pay for that loss and explain why it initially 
agreed to pay her about £200 compensation before later paying  her £50.
M&S says that Mrs Rs account terms and conditions say that in certain circumstances it 
may block a transaction. So it doesnt  accept  making a mistake  here.  It accepts making the 
original compensation  offer but says as it didnt make an error then it will not increase the 
compensation it has paid.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. The adjudicator  
thought M&S had acted in line with the account terms and conditions by blocking 
transactions where it had security concerns. The adjudicator also thought the blocks  were 
removed within a reasonable period of time and so couldnt recommend any further  
compensation.
Mrs R has asked for an ombudsman to review that decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator and for the same  reasons. I realise  Mrs R will be disappointed  
by my decision.
I have looked  at the account terms and conditions which  I think Mrs R would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I can see that in certain circumstances  M&S  explain that 
it may block  a transaction where it has security concerns. So I dont think  M&S made a 
mistake here or acted unfairly by blocking Mrs Rs two transactions where  it had such  
concerns.
I appreciate that those  account blocks caused Mrs R inconvenience and meant that the flight 
price increased. But Im also satisfied that M&S is entitled to take such  measures as it 
considers necessary in protecting its and its customers money. I accept that on occasions, 
as in this case,  genuine  transactions are blocked.  But that doesnt mean M&S has made  a 
mistake or that it should compensate Mrs R for any loss she suffered.
I accept M&S initially offered Mrs R about  £200 compensation then withdrew  that offer. I 
think M&S ought to have  looked at the circumstances of the complaint before making  that 
offer and so I appreciate Mrs R frustration. But I dont think  it follows that M&S should  pay 
that award where I dont think it made a mistake making the account  blocks.
I can see that M&S has paid £50 as a gesture of goodwill.  I think that award  broadly covers  
Mrs Rs call costs  and so I think it fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN96208322Overall as I dont think M&S  acted  unfairly by applying  the account  blocks  then I cant  fairly 
order it to pay the compensation Mrs R would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9620832