K820x#14Complaint
Miss S complains  about fees and charges  applied  to her current account  by Bank of 
Scotland (trading  as Halifax) whilst shes experienced  financial difficulties. 
Background
Miss S has a bank  account with Halifax that has an overdraft.  Halifax applies charges to the 
account each  day that Miss S balance is overdrawn. 
Miss S has complained  about  the charges applied to her overdraft. Shes explained that 
shes recently had a child, was off of work  on maternity  leave, has been in a car accident 
and has been  the victim of burglary. Miss S says that shes  asked Halifax for some 
assistance and space during a difficult time but its been unwilling to help. Miss S wants  
Halifax to stop charging interest and fees on her overdrawn balance and to refund charges 
shes already paid. 
Halifax responded to Miss S complaint on 15 May 2019 and paid her £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Halifax said Miss S had discussed  her circumstances  with its Money Management  
team in 2017  but hadnt followed up the repayment plan that was offered. Halifax  said Miss S 
could still contact its Money Management  team to discuss her circumstances. It also gave 
details of other organisations that may be able to help.  
Miss S referred her complaint to our service  and it was passed  to an investigator. She 
thought Halifax  had dealt with Miss S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else.  
Miss S asked to appeal.  Shes told us that she needs access to her account so she has 
banking facilities available for her family. Miss S also said that whilst Halifax  had previously 
offered to freeze  her interest and charges it would have left her without  an account to use. 
As Miss S asked to appeal her complaint  has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has given us a lot of detail concerning how her circumstances have changed over 
time. I can understand  why she doesnt want to pay for using the overdraft in the long term 
and appreciate shes earning less as her working pattern has changed.  But I havent seen 
anything to show Halifax has treated Miss S unfairly or failed to offer assistance when asked. 
Businesses are allowed to charge customers for using  an overdraft facility as long as the 
charges applied are in line with the account terms. Ive started by looking at the charging 
structure for Miss S account and the fees applied by Halifax.  The fees Ive seen have all 
been applied  in line with the account terms. 
I would expect a business to treat a customer experiencing financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But that doesnt mean they have to stop applying  interest  and charges to an 
overdraft. There is a range of options  available, including repayment  plans,  refinancing or 
referral to a debt advice  charity.  
I can see that Miss S discussed her circumstances  with Halifax  at the end of 2017  and it 
offered to set a repayment plan up for her. But Miss S didnt take Halifax up on that offer so it 
Ref: DRN97026242didnt go through.  I know Miss S says shes concerned that by agreeing to proceed with the 
options she was given shed lose her account facility. But, even if her existing account and 
overdraft were closed or frozen, she would still be able to apply for a basic bank account for 
everyday banking. 
Halifaxs contact notes  show that Miss S was offered a repayment  plan in December 2017 
which would have reduced her overdraft balance  each month. But the notes show Miss S 
was concerned about the impact of a repayment  plan on her credit file. Halifax didnt hear 
back from Miss S so no repayment  plan was put in place. 
I understand Miss S circumstances have  now changed and that shes  concerned that in her 
current situation she will never  repay the overdraft. As Ive said above, Halifax has to treat 
customers who are experiencing  financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. In order  
for Halifax to look at options available to help Miss S she will need to discuss  her current  
financial circumstances with it. 
Halifax has applied interest and charges to Miss S account in line with the terms and 
conditions and I havent found grounds to tell it to issue a refund. I can understand why 
Miss S is concerned, but when she previously discussed her situation with Halifax there 
were options  available. Miss S can discuss her current situation with Halifax Money 
Management team to see if it can provide  any help in reducing her account costs.  
Halifax paid Miss S £100 as a gesture of goodwill. As I havent found  any evidence  that 
Halifax has made a mistake or treated Miss S unfairly Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9702624