K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the loan amount recorded on his credit file by Tesco  Personal  Finance 
PLC (Tesco).
background
Mr A entered into a loan agreement with Tesco. The amount he borrowed  was £25,000. But 
the total amount repayable by Mr A over the life of the loan is around £35,000 due to the 
interest payable. Shortly after entering  into the loan agreement, Mr A complained to Tesco  
because they had recorded  the full repayment  amount on his credit file. He says they should 
have recorded  the amount of the loan as £25,000, as that is the amount he actually  
borrowed. But they had reported  the higher amount of approximately  £35,000 to the credit  
reference agencies.
Tesco didnt  uphold  Mr As complaint.  They say theyve  recorded the information correctly. 
They say its their policy to report the full outstanding balance on the loan account,  to 
accurately reflect a customers financial commitments.
Mr A wasnt  happy with Tescos response,  so he brought his complaint  to this service.  Our 
adjudicator thought that Tesco had acted fairly. But Mr A didnt agree and asked for his case 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The interest over the life of the loan was calculated at the beginning of the loan. At that point 
it was added to the amount Mr A borrowed. Mr A makes a fixed monthly payment which  
includes an element  of interest  as well as repayment of the loan. Ive seen a copy of the loan 
agreement. It clearly confirms in the information  box on the first page  that the amount 
borrowed is £25,000 and that the total amount of interest due is around £10,000. It also sets 
out the total amount  which Mr A agreed to pay, being the amount he borrowed plus the 
interest. 
Mr A is unhappy that Tesco recorded the total amount payable on his credit file, rather  than 
just the amount he borrowed. He says that other companies record loans differently. Ive 
considered Mr As comments, but I dont think Tesco have done anything wrong here. Ill 
explain why.
Credit files are used by lenders and other account providers to help them decide whether 
they want to do business  with a customer. So its important that credit files accurately record 
a persons financial commitments, because other lenders may rely on that information to 
make decisions  about whether  to lend to that person.
Although the amount Mr A borrowed  was £25,000,  the amount of money  he agreed to pay to 
Tesco is significantly more than that. By signing the loan agreement, Mr A committed himself  
financially to the higher,  full payment amount.  And he agreed to a fixed  monthly payment 
which includes interest. Im satisfied that Tesco acted fairly in recording the full amount 
payable on Mr As credit file. If they had recorded  the loan account balance  as being only 
£25,000, that wouldnt have been  accurate.  And it would have given other lenders a 
Ref: DRN92175422misleading picture of Mr As liabilities. I cant comment on what  other businesses may have 
done in the same situation because Im only considering Tescos  actions here,  and I think  
their approach was fair.
Mr A signed  the loan agreement and accepts that he agreed to pay the total amount of 
approximately £35,000. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that the initial account 
balance recorded  on Mr As credit file by Tesco was correct. And that theyve been 
accurately reporting  the monthly payments made by Mr A. So I dont think  theyve done 
anything wrong  here and Im not going  to ask them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9217542