K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E have  complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) unfairly switched them to a 
free account  from a Gold packaged bank account  that they were benefitting from a fee 
waiver on. 
background
I attach my provisional decision of 10 December  2018, which forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I set out why I intended  to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. I 
invited both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. 
Following this, Mr and Mrs E confirmed that they accepted my provisional  decision and that 
they had nothing further to add. Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision or ask for 
any additional time to do so. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint in my provisional 
decision. And, in the absence of anything further from Lloyds or Mr and Mrs E, I see no 
reason to change  my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 10 December 2018,  Im 
upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Lloyds  Bank  PLC should  put things right in the way set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98150782COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) unfairly  switched them  to a free 
account from a Gold packaged bank account that they were  benefitting from a fee waiver on. 
background
Mr and Mrs E had a Gold packaged bank account,  which they had been receiving  a fee waiver on, for 
a number of years. The Gold  account included  benefits such as travel insurance, breakdown cover 
and mobile  phone insurance. 
In December 2017, Lloyds  wrote to Mr and Mrs E to let them know that they were  no longer eligible 
for the travel insurance included on the Gold account as they were  over the upper  age limit for the 
policy. Lloyds letter also told Mr and Mrs E that theyd automatically be switched  to a free Classic 
account, on 22 February 2018, because of this  unless they got in contact to confirm  they wanted to 
stay on the Gold account.
Mr and Mrs E didnt confirm they wanted to keep their Gold  account by 6 February 2018.  So Lloyds 
switched them to a free Classic  account on 22 February 2018. Mr and Mrs E realised that their 
account had been switched in May 2018 and contacted Lloyds  to complain. They said that they 
werent in the UK at the time the December 2017 letter was issued and they wanted their Gold 
account restored.
Lloyds said that it wasnt at fault for its letter not having been read by Mr and Mrs E. So it refused to 
restore Mr and Mrs Es Gold  account. But it did offer them £37 to cover  one years worth of 
breakdown cover. And it also paid Mr and Mrs E £25 for providing them  with incorrect information on 
why their account  switch took place when  they first queried this. Mr and Mrs E were  dissatisfied  with 
this and referred their complaint here for review.
Our adjudicators then reviewed the complaint.  They thought  as Lloyds  letter of December 2017 had 
been sent to Mr and Mrs E, Lloyds couldnt  be held responsible for the letter not being  read or acted  
upon. So they didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.  Mr and Mrs E disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review their complaint.     
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having carefully thought about everything, Im intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.  Id like to 
explain the reasons for my provisional  decision.
It isnt in dispute that Lloyds sent Mr and Mrs E a letter of the type it has described in December  2017.  
And it isnt in dispute  the letter was correctly  delivered  to Mr and Mrs Es address  either. But the 
information and evidence Mr and Mrs E have  provided me with persuades me they werent  in the 
United Kingdom from October  2017  until April 2018. So I dont think  Mr and Mrs E couldve acted on 
the letter  in the way Lloyds says they shouldve.  
Ive also seen  what  Lloyds has said about not being  notified of a change of address for              Mr 
and Mrs E. But as they werent moving  permanently, I dont see why they wouldve  changed their 
correspondence address   especially as they appear to have been monitoring their account 
electronically. And given how they usually received  the majority of their correspondence they might 
quite reasonably expected copies of any important correspondence to have been  sent electronically 
too. So I dont find the argument that Mr and Mrs E are at fault for their account  being  switched 
because they didnt update  their correspondence address persuasive.
Ref: DRN98150783In any event, Im required  to decide what I think is fair and reasonable  in all of the circumstances of 
this case.  I accept that Lloyds  might have written to Mr and Mrs E (and other customers  like them) 
and then switched their account with a view to ensuring that they didnt pay for travel insurance they 
were no longer eligible for. And, in many  instances, a consumer failing to act after a bank  sends a 
letter, to the address  it has on file asking  for confirmation  the consumer wanted  to continue paying for 
their account  even though they are no longer  eligible  for one of the main benefits, might mean it isnt 
unfair for the account to be switched. But this wont always be the case. I think this is one such  
instance where  simply sending a letter wasnt  enough and Id like to explain why. 
Mr and Mrs E wanted to keep their account because they were receiving a fee waiver and they were 
relying on the breakdown cover and mobile  phone insurance. As I understand it they werent relying  
on the travel  insurance.  And by adopting a process that required all consumers to opt in to keeping 
their Gold account, irrespective of their individual circumstances, Lloyds  always ran the risk of 
switching consumers who wanted to keep their account even though they were  no longer eligible  for 
the travel insurance,  in circumstances where they might  not have been able to respond to a letter.
In this case, I think that Mr and Mrs E had perfectly valid reasons for not responding to Lloyds  letter   
they were unable  to do so because  they were unaware of it. And their actions in contacting Lloyds to 
dispute their account having been switched soon after returning  to the United Kingdom leads me to 
think that they would more  likely than not have  confirmed  they wished to keep their account if they 
were able to do so  especially as they werent paying the monthly fee and they were  relying on the 
benefits other  than the travel insurance. 
As Lloyds ran the risk of consumers - such as Mr and Mrs E  being  switched when they didnt want 
to and in circumstances where they couldnt stop it from happening, I dont think that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Mr and Mrs E to lose out as a result of that risk materialising.  In my view,  its 
Lloyds process that allowed  for the possibility of this switch even though it wasnt wanted.  So, I dont 
think that Mr and Mrs E should lose out because of this. And Im intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Es 
complaint and tell Lloyds to put things  right.
putting things  right  what I think  Lloyds  needs to do 
It is my understanding  that it is possible for Lloyds to restore Mr and Mrs Es Gold  account. As this is 
the case, I think that fair and reasonable thing to do here would be for Lloyds  to restore  Mr and Mrs 
Es Gold account on the same terms they had it previously. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint and say that Lloyds  
Bank Plc should put things right in the way set out above.
If Lloyds or Mr and Mrs E have anything further to add before I issue my final decision,  they should 
ensure anything they send reaches me by 27 December 2018.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9815078