K820x#14complaint
Mr D, on behalf of O a limited company, complains that Markel International Insurance  
Company Limited  used  a non-qualified person  to assess his claim  under  a legal expenses 
policy.
References to Markel  include its claim handling  agents. And as Mr D has represented O 
throughout the claim and this complaint Ill simply refer to Mr D throughout.
background
Mr D has brought a number of complaints  and this one refers  to Markels reference  ****5642.  
The issue  in this case was considered  by a handler  who Markel accept wasnt  a qualified 
lawyer. But Markel says the person was an experienced claim handler and wasnt  making  a 
decision about a legal  principle. The issue was whether reference ****5642 was a 
continuation of a previous claim rather than an assessment of whether the claim had 
reasonable prospects of success. Markel  explained to Mr D that ****5642 was assessed as a 
continuation of ****1918 which had been withdrawn by Markel.  
Markel pointed to an extract in a letter  from solicitors  acting for Mr D and other 
correspondence that showed  what he was claiming  for related issues already raised in 
****1918. And the claim related to an escalation of damage by the alleged  same cause as 
dealt with previously.  On this basis Markel  was of the view that it was a continuation of the 
previous claim and didnt  require  a lawyer to assess the reasonable prospects of success. 
Markel explained to Mr D that ****5642  should  be treated as one claim with ****1918 and as 
the policy limit of £50,000 had been  reached  it wouldnt provide any further funding.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and didnt think  Markel had acted outside the 
policy or in an unfair way. She explained that where  the issue was a matter of a legal basis 
shed expect Markels decision to be based on legal advice. But where the decision was a 
matter about the insurance cover she would expect  Markel to make such decisions using its 
claim handlers as their area of expertise is insurance.
The investigator stated  the damage  claimed  in ****5642  arose  from the same cause as in 
****1918. The policy  stated  it would provide indemnity up to £50,000  for any one claim, 
which was defined as all claims  or legal  proceedings consequent upon the same original 
cause event or circumstance.  The investigator  was satisfied that this was about insurance  
cover and not one that required legal advice. She noted that Markel had offered to 
reconsider a claim if Mr D provided further information to show that the damage was a result 
of a different  cause  to that in ****1918.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators opinion stating the insurer  couldnt decline a claim 
without professional opinion. And he says the insurer has either to instruct a solicitor  or an 
expert to decline the claim. He asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers decide the terms and conditions of their policies and produce  these  in a written 
format. The policy wording is the basis of the contract between  an insured and the insurer. 
Ref: DRN90687052Throughout the insurance industry  claims handlers  will make  decisions about whether the 
policy wording covers  a claim.  I think its reasonable to consider an insurer and its staff and 
claims handling agents to be sufficiently competent  at interpreting the policy  wording and 
deciding if a matter  is covered.  Thats  not to say they always get it right and this is something 
the Financial Ombudsman Service deals with regularly.  But I dont agree that Markel needs 
legal or other professional advice on this issue.
The situation  is different though where the matter under  consideration is whether a claim for 
legal expenses cover  has reasonable prospects of success. This is by its nature a question  
requiring appropriate legal advice  that balances the evidence and comes to an opinion of the 
likelihood of a legal  dispute  being  successful. And Im satisfied this is a matter to be 
determined by lawyers.  It might also be the case that lawyers  need to rely on other 
professional advice such as the potential value of a claim in certain circumstances.
The issue  here though was about whether Mr Ds claim was a continuation  of a previously 
exhausted claim where the limit of indemnity had been reached.
The policy is clear that one claim is defined as all claims  or legal proceedings consequent 
upon the same original  cause event or circumstance. The issue that Markels handler was 
required to decide  was a matter within the policy wording as to whether the claim in ****5642 
should be considered as any one claim. The handler took into account information  about 
the damage and its alleged  cause,  and decided that it was the same  as stated in ****1918. 
The handler wasnt making a decision on whether Mr Ds claim had reasonable prospects  of 
success. They decided  that as it was from the same  original cause, and the indemnity limit 
had been reached already, Markel wasnt going  to cover the claim. I am persuaded this was 
a decision about  the extent of insurance cover  that the handler was entitled  to make.  
Markel has offered to review a new claim if Mr D provides an opinion that demonstrates  
there is a new issue thats not originating from the same cause as claim  ****1918. Im 
satisfied that is a fair and reasonable offer in all the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf  of 
O, a limited company,  to accept or reject my decision  before 12 March 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9068705