K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Instant Cash Loans Limited (trading as PaydayUK) lent money to her 
that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss A took out a loan with PaydayUK  in October  2016. The loan was for £400 and was due 
to be repaid over five monthly repayments  of around £140 each.
Miss A says that the loan shouldnt have been  provided as it was unaffordable.  The loan has 
defaulted which she says has damaged  her credit file and that this issue has affected  her 
mental health. 
PaydayUK says that before the loan was provided  it gathered information  on Miss As 
income and expenses as well as carrying out a credit check. It says that based on the 
information received  the loan appeared affordable. It says Miss As account is now being 
managed by a third party.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said the repayment amount  was relatively 
low compared to Miss As income and he thought the checks carried out before the loan was 
provided were sufficient.
Miss A didnt accept  our adjudicators view. She reiterated that the loan was unaffordable 
and shouldnt have  been provided.  
Because a resolution hasnt been agreed, this case has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a decision.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
PaydayUK needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss A could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
In this case Miss A only took out one loan with PaydayUK. Before this was provided, 
information was gathered  about Miss As income and expenses. Her income was recorded 
as £1,350 and expenses  as £310. The monthly repayment amounts  were around £140. 
Given the size of the repayments compared  to Miss As income  I find that the checks carried 
out before  the loan was provided were sufficient. 
As the checks didnt  raised any concerns about the affordability of the loan I do not find that I 
can say this loan shouldnt have been  provided.
Ref: DRN93916862my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9391686