K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Erudio Student Loans  Limited  didnt defer the payments on his student
loan account,  and so the account went into arrears.
background
Mr T took out a student loan in 1994 with company S. The terms of the loan required him to
make monthly payments, unless he submitted annual Deferment Application  Forms (DAF).
Mr T deferred payments  on the loan because he didnt earn above  the threshold,  but the
deferment ended in November 2013. Company  S said Mr T had failed to complete a DAF in
2012. It then sent a form to Mr T in September 2013, but the form wasnt returned. The loan
account entered repayment on 25 November 2013 and began to accrue arrears until 25
January 2017.
In March 2014, the debt was sold to Erudio, and on 27 July 2014, Mr T was sent a letter
telling him the account had fallen into arrears.  He subsequently complained to Erudio about
the delay in processing his deferment applications  while the loan account was handled by
company S. He also complained he wasnt notified in writing  about the sale of the loan
account to Erudio.
In a final response letter dated  March  2015, Erudio outlined the events leading up to the loan
account having entered repayment in 2013 but said it couldnt comment on any actions on
the account while it was being administered by company S. It explained a letter had been
sent when the loan was reassigned to it in March 2014, and confirmed the outstanding
balance of the loan account  was £3,674.03, of which £1,722.48 was arrears. It said if Mr T
wanted to defer the repayments,  he should complete and return a DAF.
Because Mr T failed  to return  a completed DAF, the account was defaulted  on 1 June 2016,
and he was asked  to repay £2,862.23  of arrears by 29 June 2016.  As no payment was
received, a demand in full was sent on 30 June  2016, and the account was terminated.
When Mr T called on 4 July 2016,  he was told he could no longer defer  as his account had
been terminated, but an arrangement to pay (ATP) of £5.00 per month  was agreed. A
subsequent system error meant he was sent a further DAF.
In January 2019, Mr T called Erudio to complain  again about  the fact his deferment
applications werent accepted in 2012/2013. He also complained about poor communication.
In a final response letter dated  March  2019, Erudio explained why the account had entered
repayment, but it stated  the issue had already been  addressed in the previous complaint and
that its stance remained  the same. It didnt accept  thered been poor communication,
explaining it had sent seven DAFs between  September 2014 and October 2015. It
acknowledged the most recent DAF had been sent in error, but it said Mr T hadnt lost out
because of this, in fact it meant he was able to defer  the account again.  It confirmed the
outstanding balance was £3,570.35, of which £3,335.69 was arrears.  It confirmed it wouldnt
update Mr Ts credit  file, offered to set up a payment plan for the arrears  and to defer the
remaining balance of £234.66.
Mr T wasnt satisfied  and so he complained to this service. He was told the complaint
about the arrears  on the loan wasn't referred to us in time, so we didnt have the power to
consider it. But we could consider his complaint about the fact he was told to repay  the loan. 
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN92302832The outstanding balance  on Mr Ts student  loan account is £3,570.35,  of which  £3,335.69  is 
arrears. Mr T said that if the account hadnt  gone  into arrears, Erudio wouldve cleared the 
debt once he turned fifty and, now hes turned  fifty, he believes Erudio should clear the debt.
I noted the terms and conditions  of the account  provided for, (b) cancellation of repayments 
(so long as you are not in breach of any obligation to us) if (i) you are aged under  forty when 
you last enter an agreement to borrow from us and you attain age fifty.... However, the 
terms and conditions also state if you fail to make any repayment  provided for under this 
agreement, (and notwithstanding that we may have notified you of entitlement  to defer  
making repayment in respect of any other repayment in the manner described overleaf) we 
shall be entitled (subject to service  of any notice necessary in accordance with law) to 
require you to make immediate repayment  of the loan. I accepted the outstanding debt might 
have been cleared once  Mr T reached the age of fifty, but he breached his obligations by not 
making the monthly repayments while the loan was in repayment.  Consequently, Erudio 
wasnt obliged to cancel  the loan when  Mr T turned fifty, and, based on the terms and 
conditions I was satisfied  it would be entitled  to seek immediate payment of the arrears.
In March 2015, the balance was £3,674.03, of which £1,722.48 was arrears. Arrears  accrued
from March 2015,  but Erudio  had continued to send  DAFs to Mr T after this point and he
failed to return them, so I was satisfied the continued accrual of the arrears  was fair.
I was also satisfied the account was fairly  terminated in June 2016. But Erudio accepted  a
subsequent system error meant Mr T was sent a further DAF, meaning the account could be
deferred once  again, notwithstanding  it had already been terminated. In its final response
dated in March 2019, Erudio said Mr T hadnt  lost out due to the system  error and confirmed
the outstanding balance  was £3,570.35,  of which £3,335.60 was arrears.
I carefully considered  what happened after the account was terminated, and I considered
the status of the account was unclear.  But I didnt  think Mr T needed  to be compensated for
this and I didnt  think he was in a worse  financial position as a result,  provided Erudio 
ensured the account was properly terminated and that Mr Ts liability  was limited to what it 
would have been when the account was terminated  in June 2016.
Erudio had given  an assurance it wouldnt update Mr Ts credit file as a result of its error, 
which I thought  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  It also offered to set up a 
payment plan for the arrears.  Im satisfied thats  fair, provided Mr T was made aware  that if 
he chose to accept  the payment plan, it could  affect his credit  file. Erudio was required by 
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC 1.3) to give due regard  to the interests  of its 
customers and to treat them fairly, and in offering to set up a payment plan, I was satisfied 
Erduio had done this.
Overall, I considered Mr T had been  treated fairly,  provided Erudio ensured the status of the
account and outstanding arrears were resolved in the manner Id described  above. I
understood Mr T was unhappy with the way the account was handled, in particular  the way
Erudio communicated  with him, but I didnt consider there was poor communication.
developments
Neither party has responded to the findings in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN92302833my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has responded to my provisional decision, my final decision will be the 
same as my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9230283