K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
January 2020.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Both Mr M and 
Uncle Buck  have said they have nothing further  to add. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason  to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision I dont think Uncle  Buck should have 
agreed to give loans 4 to 6 to Mr M. Uncle Buck needs to pay him some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to lend to Mr M after,  and including,  the loan 
that he took on 2 June  2016 (loan  4). So for each of those loans Uncle  Buck should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr M on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN98058982my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ms complaint and direct Uncle Buck  Finance LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98058983EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle  Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr M was given six loans by Uncle Buck between July 2015 and December 2016. Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid in three  monthly instalments.  Mr M has successfully repaid all his loans from 
Uncle Buck and a summary of his borrowing is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 19/07/2015 30/09/2015 £   200
2 26/11/2015 29/02/2016 £   100
3 07/03/2016 31/05/2016 £   300
4 02/06/2016 31/08/2016 £   700
5 14/09/2016 30/11/2016 £   300
6 10/12/2016 20/12/2016 £   200
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt  think Uncle Buck  had 
been wrong  to give the first three loans to Mr M. But she thought that, by loan 4, Mr Ms overall 
pattern of borrowing suggested he had become  persistently  reliant on short-term  loans. So she didnt 
think Uncle Buck should have agreed to provide the last three loans, and she asked the lender to pay 
Mr M some compensation.
Uncle Buck didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr M could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN98058984the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Uncle  Buck was required to establish whether 
Mr M could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Uncle Buck did some checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his income,  and his 
normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a summary of 
those checks. I note that the credit  check  showed that Mr M had defaulted on a loan just over a year 
before. But Id agree  with Uncle Buck that, in itself, the default wasnt a reason  to not lend to Mr M.
I think  that the checks Uncle  Buck  did before agreeing the first three loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr M needed  to repay were small compared with the disposable income hed declared. 
Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time,  and his 
borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Uncle Buck  to ask 
him for the amount of information that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first three loans. 
The amount that Mr M asked  to borrow  on his fourth loan increased significantly.  And as a result the 
monthly payment he needed  to make took up quite  a large proportion of his normal income.  I think 
this should have  caused concerns to Uncle Buck. And I think those concerns should  have been 
increased by Mr Ms borrowing pattern to date. By now he was generally asking for a new loan very 
soon after repaying some earlier borrowing. 
I dont think these  concerns should have been so great that Uncle Buck should have declined Mr Ms 
loan requests. So I disagree  with what our adjudicator  said in that regard. But I do think that Uncle  
Buck should have considered it necessary  to do more checks  than it did before agreeing  this, and the 
subsequent loans.
Ive looked at copies of Mr Ms bank statements to get an understanding of his financial position at the 
time of taking these loans.  I think this is information that would  have been apparent to Uncle Buck  if it 
had done more  detailed  checks.  From those statements  I can see that Mr M was borrowing heavily  
from a range of other  short  term lenders. He typically  had at least  five other loans outstanding  when 
he asked to borrow from Uncle Buck. I think  from that information it should have been clear to 
Uncle Buck that Mr M was having significant problems managing his money and that it would  be 
unlikely that he could repay any further borrowing in a sustainable manner.
So I dont think Uncle Buck  should have agreed to give loans 4 to 6 to Mr M. Uncle Buck  needs to pay 
him some compensation.
Ref: DRN9805898