K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Ms N complain  that HSBC Private Bank (UK) Limited was too slow to execute their 
instructions to restructure a loan, causing  them consequential  loss.
background
In late 2017, Mr and Ms N decided to sell a property they had overseas. That property was 
security for their unregulated joint loan with HSBC. (The loan was sold and administered  in 
the UK.) Mr N asked  HSBC to transfer  the loan from their joint names to his sole name. 
HSBC instructed a law firm in the country  where the property was located to review the 
security documentation  and to advise if any amendments would necessary. The law firm 
advised that four new documents would have to be drafted and executed.
In January 2018, Mr N told HSBC  that the property sale might not be completed until 2019.  
Meanwhile, he wanted to re-denominate the loan from US dollars to pounds  sterling  (even 
though the sale proceeds  would be in dollars), as this would lower the costs  of servicing the 
loan. HSBC agreed to do this, and undertook to draft a new facility letter (rather than asking 
the law firm to do it). In late February, Mr N confirmed that he wanted to proceed with this 
and with putting the loan in his sole name.
Mr N says he thought  that the process  would  take about six weeks. But the new facility letter  
was not prepared by HSBC until late April,  or about eight weeks,  and the law firm did not 
complete its work until July, some five months  after it began. Mr N complained that the delay 
had caused him to suffer significant losses due to the exchange rate and interest rates 
changing in the meantime.
HSBC did not accept that it was liable for any losses caused by changing exchange rates,  or 
that all the necessary work could have  been completed in as short  a time as six weeks.  It 
said that the process had involved the participation of several internal departments, and the 
bank had also depended on the law firms assistance. HSBC said that it had regularly 
chased the law firm for updates, but that the delays  had been outside its control. But since  
the process had taken  somewhat longer than it would have liked, it offered Mr N £5,000 as a 
gesture of good  will.
Mr N rejected that offer, and with Ms N he brought this complaint to our Service. He 
represents her in this complaint. In addition  to the points it had already made, HSBC also 
argued that Mr N could have mitigated his loss by cancelling the currency re-denomination if 
he was not satisfied with the exchange  rate in July 2018.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that there had been some delay, 
partly because a member of HSBCs staff had been  ill, but mainly  because of the lawyers. 
But he said HSBC had kept chasing the lawyers and had done all that it reasonably  could. 
He also said that Mr N would have been no worse  off if HSBC had just declined to do what 
hed asked. Mr N didnt  agree. He asked for an ombudsman to reconsider this complaint.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN90373082I dont think it makes  any difference  that HSBC could have just declined Mr Ns requests. 
Having agreed  to his requests, HSBC took responsibility for ensuring  that they were  carried 
out. To that extent, I disagree  with our investigator. However, I dont  think that HSBC is liable 
for what the overseas law firm did, or that our Services remit covers a third party  law firm 
drafting legal documents, even though that was done on the instructions of a bank which 
was providing Mr and Ms N with a financial service. Rather, I think that HSBCs responsibility 
was to do what it reasonably could to chase the law firm and try to get it to complete its work.
I have read the emails  between HSBC and the law firm. I can see that after confirming 
Mr Ns instructions to proceed  at the end of February, HSBC  asked the law firm for an 
update slightly  less than two months  later, on 20 April. I dont think that is an unreasonable 
time to wait before chasing  the law firm, since there were four documents  to draft and they 
related to a high-value security. After that, HSBC was in regular contact from May 2018. 
HSBCs third chasing email (that is, the second  one in May) made it clear that the matter  
was urgent and that Mr N was frustrated with the delay. This elicited a response  from the law 
firm the next day, and another email a few days  later promising to complete the work in two 
weeks and explaining the reasons for how long it was taking. The day after that, there was a 
phone call between HSBC, the lawyer and Mr N. And after that, HSBC sent further emails 
until draft documents were provided in the middle of June. HSBC  continued  to chase the law 
firm until the finalised,  engrossed documents  were provided for Mr N to sign and notarise. So 
I think that HSBC took reasonable  steps to pursue the resolution of this issue. I agree that 
this delay was outside HSBCs control.
HSBC was directly responsible for drafting the new facility  letter  dealing  with the currency  re-
denomination. That took it two months.  Thats a little longer than Mr N expected, but I dont 
think that is an unreasonable  time. I have noted  that the member of staff who mainly dealt 
with Mr N was off sick for a month or so, but his work was re-assigned  to someone else in 
his absence and I have seen nothing to suggest  that his replacement was not up to the task.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr and Ms N to decide if 
they now wish to accept  HSBCs gesture of good  will.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2020  (but Mr N may respond on behalf of them 
both).
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9037308