K821x#15Complaint
Ms H has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly continued to 
applying charges to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 16 February  2021, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Ms Hs complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, Halifax confirmed having received my decision. But it didnt provide anything 
for me to think about or ask for any additional  time to do so. Ms H didnt provide anything 
further for me to think about either.  
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Ms Hs complaint  in my provisional decision. 
And, in the absence  of anything further  from either  party, I see no reason to change  my 
conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint. 
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Ms H
Having thought about everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Ms Hs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2013 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Ms H to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Hs credit 
file, it should backdate  this to January 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms H along with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information  from Ms Hs credit  file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN94290862My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 16 February 2021, Im 
upholding Ms Hs complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN94290863COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Ms H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly continued  to applying 
charges to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong or 
had treated Ms H unfairly. Ms H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.   
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations  and good industry practice  we consider  when 
looking at whether  a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying  overdraft  charges. 
So I dont consider  it necessary  to set all of this out in this provisional decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Halifax acted  unfairly when it continued  
charging overdraft  interest and associated transaction fees after renewing Ms Hs overdraft in 
February 2016. By this point, Ms H had already  told Halifax that she was having difficulty with her 
overdraft. And while Halifax might say that it refunded a months worth  of fees because  of this, its 
actions merely treated the symptoms without addressing  the root cause of the problem that Ms Hs 
use of her overdraft was unsustainable. 
A cursory  look at Ms Hs statements in the year leading  up to the renewal shows that she hadnt seen 
a credit balance in the entire  period. And given her monthly income was only around £500 I cant see 
how Halifax could reasonably have believed that shed  clear the over £3,000  she owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
I say this while especially mindful  of the proportion on Ms Hs income  being  taken up by the overdraft  
charges. In my view,  it ought to have been apparent that Ms H was unlikely to have been  able to 
repay what she owed with overdraft fees and associated charges being  added. So Halifax  should 
have stopped  providing  the overdraft on the same terms and treated Ms H with forbearance rather 
than adding  even more  fees and charges . All of this means  Halifax  should have realised  Ms H was 
experiencing financial difficulty, wasnt using  her overdraft as intended and so shouldnt  have 
continued offering it on the same terms. 
As Halifax didnt react to Ms Hs overdraft usage and instead continued  charging in the same way, I 
think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.  Ms H ended up paying  additional interest, fees and 
associated charges on her overdraft at a time when she was already experiencing difficulty. So Im 
intending to say that Ms H lost out because of what Halifax did wrong and that it should  put things 
right.
Fair compensation   what Im intending to say Halifax needs to do to put things right  for Ms H
Having thought about everything,  Im intending to issue  a final decision saying its fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of Ms Hs complaint  for Halifax  to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Hs current overdraft  balance  so that all interest,  fees and charges  applied 
to it from January 2013 onwards are removed.
AND
Ref: DRN94290864If an outstanding balance remains  on the overdraft  once these adjustments have  been 
made Halifax should contact  Ms H to arrange  a suitable repayment  plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate  to record negative information on Ms Hs credit file, it should 
backdate this to January  2013.
OR
If the effect of removing  all interest, fees and charges  results  in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to 
Ms H along with 8% simple  interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains  after all 
adjustments have been made, then Halifax  should  remove  any adverse  information from 
Ms Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Halifax  to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must  give Ms H a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold  Ms Hs complaint and tell Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax) to put things  right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 2 March 2021  changes my mind, thats what Ill tell 
Halifax to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9429086