K821x#15complaint
Mrs L has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a packaged
bank account,  called  the Ultimate Reward Current Account  (URCA).
Mrs L paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in return.
She thinks that Bank of Scotland should  refund  her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
 
background
I previously sent Bank of Scotland and Mrs L a provisional decision on this complaint. That
provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have  attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and
I explained why I thought  that Bank of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to Mrs L and how it 
should compensate  her.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and evidence they wanted me to
consider before I made  a final decision.
The period  of time I gave for responses  has now passed. Both parties have said that they
have nothing further to add and have both accepted my provisional  findings and provisional
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Mrs L and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us
throughout the case, but as there is nothing new for me to consider since I sent my
provisional decision, I have reached  the same  conclusions for the same reasons.
Bank of Scotland should now put things right for Mrs L by paying her fair compensation.
putting things right
To put things right for Mrs L, Bank of Scotland should put her into the financial position  she
would have been in if it hadnt  sold her the URCA.  It should therefore:
 
refund  Mrs L all the fees she paid for the URCA
add interest to each  of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the 
date Mrs L paid the fee until the date it makes  the refund  (+).
(+) HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Bank  of Scotland to take off tax from this interest.
Bank of Scotland must give Mrs L a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken if she
asks for one.
If Bank of Scotland can show that Mrs L gained financially from the banking  benefits that
came with the URCA (such  as cheaper  overdrafts  than it made available to customers with
Ref: DRN92961432fee-free accounts), then it may deduct  the relevant amount from the above compensation. 
If it chooses to do this, then it must set out its calculation clearly and simply for Mrs L so she
can follow what it has done.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, I am upholding Mrs Ls 
complaint about  Bank of Scotland Plc. It should  now put things  right for her by paying her the 
compensation I have  described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92961433Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs L has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold  her a packaged
bank account, called the Ultimate Reward  Current Account (URCA). 
Mrs L paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential  benefits in return.
She thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund  her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
background
The adjudicator who looked into this case previously didnt think  that Bank of Scotland  had
treated Mrs L unfairly,  and didnt recommend that it should give her any money  back.
Mrs L didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to look at her
case again, so it has come to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach  to help me to decide what to do in Mrs Ls case. Ive looked into
everything that Mrs L and Bank  of Scotland have told us or sent us about  the complaint and I
currently intend to uphold it. Ill explain why.
During our investigation, there has been a significant dispute about whether Bank of
Scotland sold the URCA to Mrs L during  a meeting  at one of its branches,  or online.
Mrs L has told us that she signed up for the URCA after an adviser in one of Bank of
Scotlands branches told her during  a meeting  that the account was the right one for her as
it offered  an overdraft,  cheap insurance  cover  and would  improve her credit score.  Shes
told us that she had had some financial difficulties, explained these  to Bank of Scotland  and
told it that she was having problems  with another bank, and that Bank of Scotland  told her
that the only account it would offer her was the URCA.
Bank of Scotland  has told us that Mrs L bought the URCA online.  We have asked it to check
its records closely on this and it has recently sent us information which it says shows that:
it sold the URCA to Mrs L online during May 2010, and that this was Mrs Ls first Bank of 
Scotland account
in April 2012,  Mrs L opened a fee-free account alongside the URCA, again online.
I accept that the dates  in these records are probably reliable and I have taken them  to be
correct. And I also understand from Bank of Scotlands records that Mrs L kept both the
URCA and the fee-free account until February 2019, when she closed  the URCA. I have also
taken this to be correct. However,  Im not convinced by Bank  of Scotlands records that it
didnt meet Mrs L, or talk to her about the URCA.
Mrs L has been very clear  and consistent about the details of her disputed  meeting with
Bank of Scotland.  She has talked  about having a long discussion with the adviser and has
stated very clearly that Bank of Scotland led her to believe that buying the URCA could get
her finances  back on track after her difficulties.
Ref: DRN92961434In Bank of Scotlands own investigation of Mrs Ls complaint, it recorded  that quite soon after
it sold the account  to her she had incurred  several unplanned charges, had some direct
debits returned, had taken  numerous pay day loans  and spent  some of the money  from these loans 
on betting transactions. Although, obviously, these records relate  to things that
happened after Bank of Scotland had sold the URCA  to Mrs L, I think they add further
credibility to her explanation that she approached Bank of Scotland  due to financial problems
and sought its help. So I think its highly likely  that she did so.
I dont know why Bank of Scotland has no records of its discussion with Mrs L. Various
different things may have happened  to explain their absence.  But I find Mrs Ls description of
what happened to be coherent, aligned with her financial circumstances, and plausible; so I
have taken it to be accurate. I will not comment further on Bank of Scotlands lack of
records.
In outline, it seems to me that the crux of Mrs Ls complaint, from her point of view, is as
follows:
in 2010, she was in financial difficulties
she went  to Bank of Scotland,  as a potential new customer, for help with these  difficulties
Bank of Scotland  told her that buying  an URCA  would  help her because it would give her an 
overdraft, some insurance policies and improve her credit score
after hearing this, Mrs L bought the URCA mainly because  she believed Bank of Scotland  that 
it would improve her credit score
Mrs L also accepted that buying  the URCA would increase the likelihood that she would  be 
able get an overdraft,  and she found this an additional attraction.
Bank of Scotland  has sent us some of its notes  from its own investigation into Mrs Ls
complaint, and these state very clearly that buying the URCA would  not have increased the
probability that it would allow her an overdraft and would not improve  her credit score. They
say the type of account a customer  holds has no bearing on (Bank of Scotlands)
decision-making process  when a customer requests an arranged overdraft..., and that
.the type of account  a customer holds  has no bearing  on their credit rating.
I fully accept that Bank of Scotlands notes about the URCA not affecting a possible
overdraft for Mrs L and not influencing her credit score are both true, and I agree  with them.
But as I also accept Mrs Ls recollection  that Bank of Scotland effectively  told her the
opposite in 2010, I dont  think Bank of Scotland treated her fairly  when it sold her the
account. I think it misinformed her. And as I also believe that Bank of Scotland  told Mrs L
that the URCA was right  for her, I also think it recommended that she should buy an
account which  wasnt  appropriate for her financial situation.
.
In fairness to Bank of Scotland, Ive also considered if there may have been  other reasons
for Mrs L to buy the URCA. For example, in 2010 its potential  benefits  included travel and
mobile phone insurance, and I understand that Mrs L travelled from time-to-time and also
registered a mobile phone with the insurer, so these  benefits may have been of interest to
her. However,  given Mrs Ls financial situation, I dont think she would  have bought the
URCA for these other benefits alone; of course, once she had them, she may have found
them potentially useful, but I dont think she would  have wanted to pay the monthly  fee to
obtain them.
I dont know why Mrs L opened a fee-free account in 2012. Neither she, nor Bank of
Scotland, have told us much about this account.  Obviously, at that time she certainly  knew
Ref: DRN92961435that she had the option to take a fee-free account from Bank of Scotland which raises  the
question as to why she kept the URCA for longer.
Mrs L has told us that even  with the fee-free  account  she kept the URCA because  she
continued to believe  it would help with her credit score. Shes told us that she held this belief
as a result of her meeting with Bank of Scotland 2010 and didnt  know it was wrong until late
2018-2019 when she sought help from a national charity which supports people in debt.
Bank of Scotlands  investigation notes show that it considered the onus (fell) on the
customer  to get in touch  about financial difficulties, and that it has no record of (Mrs L)
contacting (it) with regards to any financial  difficulty. So I think  its unlikely that Bank of
Scotland took any action to correct Mrs Ls beliefs during  this period. I find Mrs Ls
description of why she kept the URCA for so long to be highly plausible.
Bank of Scotlands  records  do refer to a change affecting  Mrs Ls account  in September
2011 and that the Channel of Change was Branch, implying that it held a meeting with
her about something.  I dont  know what change took place at that time or why, as its not
obvious from the records.  We asked Bank of Scotland for more  information about this
meeting and it told us that at that time Mrs L already had the URCA,  but it didnt say anything
further. So as I have no more information, I havent considered it any further.
So in summary, I currently think  that Bank of Scotland misinformed Mrs L about  the URCA
and recommended she should buy it when  it wasnt right for her financial situation. If Bank of
Scotland had done things correctly, then I doubt  that Mrs L would have bought the URCA.
Bank of Scotland  should  now put things right by paying Mrs L appropriate  compensation.
putting things  right
To put things right for Mrs L, Bank of Scotland  should put her into the financial position she
would have been in if it hadnt sold her the URCA.
It should therefore:
refund Mrs L all the fees she paid for the URCA
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the date Mrs L 
paid the fee until the date it makes  the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest.
Bank of Scotland  must give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if she
asks for one.
If Bank  of Scotland can show that Mrs L gained  financially from the banking benefits that
came with the URCA (such as cheaper overdrafts than it made available to customers  with
fee-free accounts), then it may deduct the relevant  amount from the compensation.  If it
chooses to do this, then it must set out its calculation  clearly and simply  for Mrs L so she
can follow what it has done. (For Mrs Ls benefit,  I would  like to point out that in some
circumstances these  deductions can reduce  the amount of compensation  by quite a large
amount).
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently intend to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Should I
finally decide this way, I will tell Bank of Scotland plc to put things right for Mrs L by
paying her the compensation  I have described above. But first, I invite both parties  to
respond to this provisional decision with any further comments or arguments they wish to
Ref: DRN92961436make, or any information  they wish me to review.
I will consider any responses they send me by 7 May 2020 before making a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9296143