K822xcomplaint
Miss B & Miss T complain  about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a claim made 
under a buildings insurance policy (for ease Ill only refer to Miss B in this decision).
background 
Miss B contacted Aviva  when she noticed  her kitchen floor appeared to have sunk a bit. She 
wanted Aviva to inspect  the floor. Various inspections took place over several months and 
can be summarised as follows:
Avivas inspections
The first inspection wasnt as detailed as subsequent ones  but, in summary, it was 
considered that the issue of damp was a result  of a failed damp proof course  (DPC). It was 
noted that works relating  to an extension had bridged the DPC  and blocked  the air vents.  It 
was suggested  that a damp proofing specialist was required.
Aviva sent an agent to Miss Bs home  again in August 2018 and checks  were  carried out to 
establish if there was a leak. According  to the agent the water meter was read and water  
usage at the property was stopped  for a period. Readings were  taken at 15 minutes and 
then 30 minutes, but the meter hadnt changed. This, it was said, showed there was no 
leaking pipe.  And it was concluded in the inspection that the DPC had failed and there  was a 
possible drainage  issue.
In September  2018 a drainage specialist attended  to inspect the drains.  They concluded 
there was a problem  with defective workmanship in so far as an inappropriate pipework 
connection causing water  to enter  premises. And later in September  a chartered engineer 
attended Miss Bs home concluding  the damage was due to decay exacerbated by 
inappropriate discharge of water from the drainage system and a lack of ventilation.  The 
engineer said there  was no evidence of a rising  water  table.
Miss Bs inspections
A company attended in July 2018 and in a subsequent report  (issued in September  2018) its 
apparent that this inspection wasnt such that it investigated the cause of the presence  of 
water. Advice is given  in the report as to what next steps Miss B should take and there are 
reflections on what a damp proofing  specialist had said. But there are clearly  no opinions  
given about the reason for the presence of water. Miss B says she spoke to the surveyor 
who had attended, and he was of the view that the water was a result of the water  table.
A damp proofing specialist attended in August 2018  and made several observations, which 
included, as part of the remedy to prevent future damp related issues,  ventilation  needed to 
be increased by installing  sub-floor air vents. While expressly stating the report wasnt a 
structural survey, the author thought there was a suggestion of a slight  leak to the main 
water supply point and a high-water  table causing  water entry  to property.
Miss B called her home emergency provider who attended in August, but no leak was found. 
Miss Bs view is that the conditions should  be considered  a flood and so would be covered 
by the policy.  In other information Miss B says the local water authority attended her property 
and confirmed the ground water was not a result of the foul sewer  (I take this to mean from 
Ref: DRN98096522the drainage pipes). In short, Miss B says that despite remedial works to the drainage  pipe 
work, water is still present and so Aviva  is wrong to say that the drainage was the issue.
Our initial investigation
One of our investigators  investigated Miss Bs complaint but explained why he didnt think  it 
would be fair to uphold it. He outlined what the various companies had said whod attended  
Miss Bs property. But his view was that the chartered engineers report explained the cause 
of the damage  and this wasnt an insured event. He said Aviva  would need to be provided 
with equal expert evidence,  from a chartered  RICS accredited surveyor, to show  what the 
cause of damage was and that it was covered under the policy. If this was the case,  the 
investigator said Aviva should  provide cover. The responsibility for providing this evidence 
lay with Miss B, and in all the circumstances he didnt think Aviva had to do anything further.
Looking at the claim handling  service  Aviva had provided, the investigator thought Avivas 
service was poor. He pointed out that;
It wasnt made clear the claim  had been  declined and why; 
Aviva  gave incorrect information about  timescales when it was known there were 
backlogs; 
Aviva  gave incorrect information to Miss B; 
When Miss B provided  further  information,  Aviva maintained its view the claim should 
be declined but this wasnt communicated to Miss B. 
And in the light of poor service  the investigator  thought Aviva  should pay £150  
compensation for the trouble and upset  this caused.
Miss B disagreed with the investigator re-iterating the details of the complaint and the impact  
the series of events had had.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint centres  on whether the damage to the kitchen floor and 
surrounding joists  and timbers, is covered by the Home insurance policy with Aviva. Aviva 
says it isnt covered  principally because there  was no insured event and was due to poor 
installation of a drainage  system. In other words, the cause of the damage isnt covered by 
the policy.
Miss Bs policy sets out the circumstances under which loss or damage  to the buildings  is 
covered. These are known as insured perils or events and of relevance to this case are the 
events of flood  and water escaping  from pipes  on the basis  that they are water  dominated  
events. And its the collection  and presence  of water  that is central to the case.
But like every insurance policy Miss Bs contains several limitations  and exclusions where 
loss or damage wont be covered. Aviva  has said there isnt an insured event in the first 
place but also that expert  reports show the rotting and decaying timber  is a result of a poorly 
installed drainage  system  and a lack of ventilation  beneath the sub-floor. More specifically, 
Avivas view is that the damage has been a gradual  deterioration because  rot thrives in dark,  
damp and poorly  ventilated areas.  And the installation of the drainage system was 
inappropriately connected to the manhole and water discharged into the ground. Damage 
Ref: DRN98096523due to this was excluded because of faulty workmanship, defective design or the use of 
defective materials.
Since Miss B first notified Aviva of the damage  in her home there have  been  several  
inspections and professionals attend. Some have been instructed by Aviva  and Miss B has 
had contractors attend at her request.  Having  considered the reports provided I am 
particularly persuaded by the views of the chartered  engineer and the drainage  specialist, 
both appointed by Aviva. Their collective  areas  of expertise  cover  building  defects as a result 
of flood, escape of water  and drainage issues. I am satisfied that the evidence shows,  on the 
balance of probabilities, the cause of the groundwater was due to failures/defects  in the 
drainage work. And the effect of this was to provide the environment  for the development of 
rot and decay such that it caused the damage  it had to Miss Bs home.  
Miss B believes the damage is flood related but Im satisfied the most persuasive  evidence 
shows the groundwater was a result  of poorly installed drainage pipes (now rectified by Miss 
B). And that being  the case, I am satisfied  Avivas rejection of the claim was in line with the 
policy and, in all the circumstances,  fair and reasonable. Aviva has said that it will consider  
any further expert evidence Miss B provides. As her belief is that the water  is related to a 
high-water table then that expert would, I suggest,  need to have the relevant qualifications 
and expertise to comment on such an issue.
Service issues
There is no doubt that Miss B has experienced significant distress and inconvenience due to 
the damage to her home.  It has meant that shes had to make several adjustments within  the 
home as effectively the kitchen couldnt be used until the floor issue  had been  sorted  out. 
But that doesnt mean Aviva should be held responsible, after all, it didnt cause the damage. 
So, the issue for compensation is to be determined  by what,  if anything, Aviva did that 
treated Miss B unfairly and therefore caused her distress and inconvenience.
I agree  with the investigators points about  how Aviva handled the claim. Sometimes 
communication lines break down because agents and experts are appointed on behalf of the 
insurer. But Aviva is required to handle  a claim promptly and fairly and so, as principal, has 
responsibility for how its agents deal with a policyholder.  The main cause of the impact  on 
Miss B was, in my view, the fact of the damage  itself and the consequences  it had. Aviva  
isnt responsible for that but the communication and delays  when  handling the claim are 
Avivas responsibility. And for that I am satisfied  £150  is a fair amount.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about poor claim handling  by Aviva Insurance  Limited.  Aviva  must 
pay Miss B and Miss T £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Miss T 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9809652