K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained about her home insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance  Company 
Limited (LV).  It has offered to settle  her personal  possessions claim in part only.
background
Mrs D has cover with LV, for her and her family, for lost personal  possessions. Mrs Ds 
daughter had been fitted with a retainer by her dentist. She was to wear the retainer 
long- term, not just for a short period. Over  some  time one of Ms Ds teeth moved,  despite  
the retainer. It was believed that continued use of the retainer would ultimately re-align the 
tooth that had moved (as well as keeping the other  teeth in the position  they were  meant  
to be in). Ms D then lost the retainer.
Ms Ds dentist (who hadnt  fitted the retainer  originally) said that fitting a replacement  
retainer at this point  wouldnt  help  because in making one the incorrect position  of the
mis-aligned tooth would  be taken  into account. Mrs D checked with the previous dentist 
and they no longer had a copy of the mould  for the lost retainer. Ms Ds current dentist 
said the tooth  would  have to be re-aligned with a course  of treatment and then a new 
retainer would have  to be made and fitted.  This would then keep all the teeth in their 
correct position  as the original retainer had been  designed to do.
Mrs D claimed  the cost of the dental work  from LV as part of a claim for the loss of the 
retainer. LV said the dental work wasnt necessary  as part of the loss. It initially  said it 
would only pay for a replacement retainer but that would be less than the £100  policy  
excess. It then agreed that part of the cost for replacing the retainer was the re-moulding 
cost. It said if Mrs D provided it with invoices it would consider settlement in that respect. 
But it wouldnt pay the full costs Mrs D had sought.
Our investigator felt LVs answer  to the claim was fair and reasonable. However, he noted 
that Mrs D hadnt provided any direct evidence  from the dentist. He felt it was important to 
consider expert evidence  in this case and so asked the dentist for further  detail and 
passed the complaint over to be considered by an ombudsman.
The dentist said he hadnt treated  Ms D originally. He couldnt be sure how mis-aligned  the 
tooth had become  but it had likely occurred through improper use of the retainer. He said if 
the mis-alignment  had only been  minimal then judicious  continued use of the retainer  
would likely,  over time,  have resolved the issue without the need  for further treatment.
The dentists comments were shared with Mrs D. She said he had seen Ms D at the point  
she discovered the tooth  had moved. At that time he had advised, Mrs D said, that all that 
was necessary to re-align the tooth  was to keep wearing the retainer. He didnt, at that 
point think other treatment was required.
The complaint was passed  to me and I considered  all the evidence  provided. On balance  
I didnt think it would  be fair to make  LV cover Mrs Ds extra costs. I issued a provisional  
decision explaining  my reasoning. Neither party responded  to my findings, meaning Ive had 
no cause to change  them. They  are now the findings of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN92867022The LV policy doesnt offer cover for indirect  loss arising from anything otherwise covered. 
However, this service has long had the approach that if something  is required in order  for 
proper indemnity to be provided, the insurer will often have to cover that aspect  too. But 
we wont require an insurer to take on extra  costs  where that creates an unfair outcome.
The dentist hasnt been able to say that continued use of the retainer  (had it not been lost) 
would have most likely re-aligned  the tooth.  He said it would if a) the mis-alignment had 
been minimal and b) the retainer was worn judiciously. He says he cant say whether the 
mis-alignment was minimal as he didnt  see Ms D originally. Therefore, I cant be satisfied, 
based on the available expert evidence, that but for the retainer being lost, Mrs D wouldnt 
have faced further costs  related to correctional work.
I know  Mrs D has said the dentists  did see Ms D at the point she noted  the tooth had 
moved and his advice  then was to just keep using the retainer. But that isnt what  the 
dentist told us.
Furthermore, I note that the likely reason  for the mis-alignment is felt to have been 
improper use of the retainer. And, when Mrs D called to notify LV of the loss it seems the 
retainer was still not being used  properly. I then have to set that against  the dentists 
opinion that successful re-alignment  by use of the retainer alone would always have 
necessitated Ms D wearing it judiciously. In the circumstances  Im not sure that would 
most likely have happened. So I think its reasonable to say that another plan for rectifying  
the problem would, most likely, have always been  necessary. Therefore, I dont think  
merely replacing the retainer, even if a mould had been available,  was ever a viable option 
for Mrs D.
Taking all of that into account I dont think its fair to make  LV pay for the extra  costs  Mrs D 
had to pay before  a new retainer could be made and fitted. The mis-alignment that needed 
correction wasnt a result of the loss of the retainer  and the correctional work was, most  
likely, always  going to be necessary regardless  of the loss and LVs need  to provide 
indemnity for that. Therefore, I think  that to make LV cover the cost of Mrs Ds outlay for 
that correctional work would allow her to benefit unfairly from the policy.  If Mrs D hasnt 
claimed the cost of making  (including  moulding) and fitting a replacement retainer from LV 
but still wishes to do so she should contact it, providing relevant evidence as to her outlay.
my final decision
I dont uphold  this complaint. I dont make  any award against  Liverpool Victoria  Insurance 
Company Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9286702