K820x#14complaint
Mr Z has complained about One Call Insurance Service Limited  (One  Call) providing the 
wrong excess information when he renewed his motor insurance policy.
background
In April 2017, Mr Z insured his car through One Call. The insurance policy  included  an 
excess of £3,000. In March 2018,  One Call sent a renewal notice to Mr Z. This notice said 
the excess for the next period of insurance  would be £0.
Mr Z decided to renew his policy with the same insurance  company.  In April, One Call issued 
his new policy documents. These said the policy included a £3,000 excess. In May, One Call 
phoned Mr Z to offer him an additional  insurance product. During this call, they explained his 
current excess was £3,000. Mr Z took no further  action at that time.
In February 2019,  Mr Z called One Call to complain about the excess  as it didnt match  the 
information provided in the renewal notice. This is because Mr Z needed to claim  on his 
insurance policy. He said he renewed  his policy because of the £0 excess  so thought hed 
been misled.
One Call responded admitting the renewal notice hadnt included the correct excess  
information. But, they felt Mr Z had been  made aware of the excess amount  in the policy  
documents and on the phone call in May. So, they said the excess  remained payable but 
offered £300 to recognise the mistake in the renewal notice. This was paid to Mr Z in 
February. But, Mr Z remained  unhappy  so he referred his complaint  to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought  One Call made 
Mr Z reasonably aware of the excess in the policy documents which Mr Z accessed  through 
his online  portal.  So, they didnt think One Call needed to take any further action. Mr Z 
disagreed, explaining that the £3,000 excess was impacting  him financially. He again said he 
renewed due to the incorrect  excess  offer so didnt think  it was fair for the higher excess  to 
apply. As Mr Z disagreed, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Its not disputed  by either party that the renewal notice sent to Mr Z contained the incorrect 
excess information. So, Ive considered  whether Mr Z was made reasonably  aware of the 
correct excess amount following the mistake.  Ive also thought about whether Mr Z wouldve 
acted differently  that is, not bought the policy  had the excess  information on the renewal 
notice been right.
Ive seen the policy documents uploaded to Mr Zs online portal after he decided to renew.  I 
think these clearly explain the excess for the policy is £3,000. Ive seen that Mr Z accessed 
this portal  on 29 May 2018 so had the opportunity to read them. But, Ive seen no evidence 
that he contacted  One Call at this point to query  the excess amount.
Ref: DRN94894232Ive also listened  to the call between One Call and Mr Z in the same month. One Call make 
Mr Z aware  the policy  excess was £3,000. Mr Z acknowledged the excess  may be £3,000  
and that hed have to check  it. He ended the call explaining he wanted  to keep the policy as 
it was and that hed review  it again  the following  year. 
So, I think Mr Z was made reasonably aware of the correct policy excess. Id have expected  
Mr Z to query the excess with One Call if he remained unhappy.  Ive seen no evidence  to 
show that Mr Z did so until he needed  to claim on the policy. So I dont think it would be fair 
to hold One Call responsible for Mr Z having  to pay the excess  some nine months later,  after 
claiming on his policy.  
But, Im aware Mr Z has said he only renewed his policy because it offered a £0 excess  in 
the renewal notice. So, Ive reviewed the evidence to consider what  I think Mr Z would likely 
have done had the excess  information  been correct.
Ive seen that Mr Z took the same  policy out the previous year, with the £3,000 excess.  On 
this occasion,  Mr Z chose the policy whilst  being  aware of the excess  amount. So, I think Mr 
Z was willing to pay for an insurance  policy that had a higher excess  at that time. Ive seen 
no evidence that shows any change in circumstances  that would indicate Mr Z wouldnt be 
willing to have the same excess  and take the same risk the following year.
Mr Z also explained to One Call in the telephone  conversation that hed decided  to renew his 
policy as he was a busy man and One Call were  able to arrange  for the renewal  with minimal 
effort to him. He didnt  mention the £0 excess being  the reason for his renewal at this time.  
As mentioned above, Ive also seen that Mr Z was made reasonably aware  a significant 
amount of time before  he needed to make  a claim that the excess  would be £3,000. Theres 
no evidence to show Mr Z questioned  this with One Call or wished to cancel the policy 
because of it. For these  reasons, I think its likely  that Mr Z would  have continued to renew 
his policy  with One Call even if the excess information had been  correct. 
So, One Call clearly  made a mistake  with the renewal notice but Im pleased to see that 
theyve acknowledged  this and offered £300 compensation. I think  this is a fair sum in the 
circumstances so I wont be asking  them to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint about  One Call Insurance  
Services Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019. 
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9489423