K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out between December 1997  and 
January 2000.  The bank  cant  confirm  where  or how the policy  was taken out. Mr B recalls 
taking it out at the same time as he took out a separate loan. The policy  gave Mr B 
protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed, so the complaint  was passed to 
me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  As the evidence is incomplete, Ive based my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely, given the available  evidence  
and what weve learnt about how Lloyds was selling PPI at the time from dealing  with other 
cases.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Lloyds cant say how much Mr Bs policy cost. But, given when it was sold,  I think  its likely to 
have been £0.79p per £100  of the outstanding balance. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
There isnt much information to go on in this case, because everything happened  so 
long ago. Its not surprising that Lloyds doesnt have  Mr Bs PPI application form now.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B said - that he was told he had to have PPI. But I 
also have to take into account how long ago the sale was, and how that might  affect  
what he recalls. Without stronger evidence showing the bank didnt make clear  it was 
optional, I cant  fairly  conclude Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr B without giving him a choice,  
and him agreeing  to take it. 
Ive worked on the basis  that Lloyds recommended  the PPI to Mr B. That means Lloyds 
had to make sure it was suitable for Mr B. Mr B said he was entitled to at least three 
months sick pay and had no savings or other  insurances. He said his parents wouldve 
helped with his repayments.  The PPI would  have paid out on top of his work benefits for 
up to 12 months per successful claim. I accept that Mr Bs family may have wanted to 
help out, but I havent placed  any reliance on this, because  help of this kind cant  always 
be guaranteed when  the time comes.  So,  overall, I think  the PPI wouldve been useful 
to Mr B if he was sick or lost his job. I think it was a suitable recommendation.
Lloyds also had to give Mr B enough clear information to allow him to decide  if PPI was 
right for him and he wanted to buy it. Its possible  the information Lloyds gave Mr B 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. However,  it seems  he wouldnt have 
been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations. The policy appeared to be 
competitively priced, and it was apparently affordable.  So, I think  it unlikely Mr B 
wouldve made  a different  decision if better  information  had been provided.  On balance, 
I think he would  still have  taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN98694602Ive taken into account everything that Mr Bs said, including that Lloyds has settled a 
complaint he had about the mis-sale of another PPI policy  sold with a loan.  He says his 
circumstances were  the same as here.  We consider each case  on its own facts and merits, I 
note the facts Mr B mentions are a bit different as PPI was taken out alongside  a loan, rather  
than a credit  card. So, this doesnt  change  my view.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9869460