K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Y say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs Y bought the policy  in 2003 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr Y only for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay around £275  a month towards  Mr and Mrs 
Ys mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost just over £16 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr Y was employed as a welder. He has told us he was not entitled  to any 
enhanced sick pay but was entitled to less than three months redundancy pay. He also said 
they had a few hundred pounds in savings they could use to repay their mortgage should  Mr 
Y be unable  to work. Mr Y has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2003. Mr and 
Mrs Y then took out a further  advance  in 2006  before  the account closed in 2011. 
Mr and Mrs Ys representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ys representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs Y 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ys representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs Y about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs Y and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN96315532The information Mr and Mrs Y received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs Y disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ys. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs Y arranged  a further advance  on their mortgage after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code.
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN96315533The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs 
Ys case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs Y with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs Y sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN96315534-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs Y, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs Y 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs Y 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs Y know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS no longer  has all of the paperwork from the time of the sale.  This isnt surprising  the 
sale happened some  years ago and the mortgage  account ended in 2011.  But I have seen 
example paperwork  from around the time of Mr and Mrs Ys sale,  which shows that a 
consumer would reasonably have been  aware  they had a choice about PPI during the 
branch meeting.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that 
something different  happened in Mr and Mrs Ys case, I think  its more likely that Mr and Mrs 
Y knew the policy was optional  and they agreed  to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Mr and Mrs Y say they werent advised  during this sale.  But BoS says it did provide advice 
during this sale. And based on what we know about how sales  like this were carried out, Im 
persuaded that it provided advice.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs Y with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs Y. It seems Mr and Mrs Y cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ys financial circumstances from the mortgage application they 
would have completed. But there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser  took steps to 
establish whether  Mr Y would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet their needs, or the extent to which  they 
had a need for cover based  on their existing means.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Y given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Y, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN96315535-Mr Y met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs Y had a need for the policy   Mr Y would not have received any 
enhanced sick pay if he was unable to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits 
were limited  and they didnt have any savings beyond a few hundred  pounds  they 
could fall back on. The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs Y manage the 
consequences if Mr Y was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs Y. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs Y. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ys employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for him to claim. And while  in any event Mr Y hasnt told us 
about any pre-existing medical  conditions, because  Mr and Mrs Y took the policy out 
at the same time as the mortgage, the exclusion  for existing conditions didnt apply. 
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr Y be disabled  or unemployed for 30 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 
months for each  claim, it still provided useful cover  given: Mr and Mrs Ys 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs Y be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs Y sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs Y were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr Y was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs Y 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs Y agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs Y Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr and Mrs Y all of the information 
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN96315536Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ys representative  has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ys. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ys representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs Y about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ys representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs Y have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs Y? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs Y suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs Y. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs Y suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs Y would  have still taken out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs Y, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs Y have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs Y would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs Y say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN96315537Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs Y had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
Y was unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ys circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs Y knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear from the available evidence  that BoS told them  
the exact premium  at the point Mr and Mrs Y applied for the policy.  Having said that, it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Y would  have been told the cost before  the policy started  and they 
paid for the policy for a number of years. So if the costs were  significantly at odds with their 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with BoS at the 
time or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs Y would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs Y would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ys 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did. In 
fact Mr and Mrs Y did make a successful claim  in 2012 and received around  five payments -  
so if the policy didnt perform as they thought I would have expected them to have raised 
things at this point. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs Y thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr Y 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr Y be unable  to 
do their own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN96315538I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs Y pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs Y from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ys circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr Y was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr Y wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr Y was in 
permanent employment  for example. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the 
policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
Y might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs Y from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs Y, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs Y had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr Y was not only unable to 
do his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr Ys 
circumstances and the limited other means  they had to make  their repayments if he wasnt  
working, on balance,  I still think they would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs Y that any claim they made would be limited  to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but as Ive said above, they had limited  other  means  to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs Y would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs Y be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs Y would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr Y was made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs Y would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Ref: DRN96315539Mr and Mrs Ys representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs Y would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ys 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs Y found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs Y believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs Y in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs Y compensation, as that would  put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs Y think BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoS 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mr and Mrs Y, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ys representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs Y and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. 
Ref: DRN963155310But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs Y in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9631553