K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint is about  the amount of compensation Bank of Scotland plc, trading 
as Halifax, offered following a complaint about  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy 
taken out by Mr and Mrs A in 2001. 
background
Mr and Mrs A originally  complained to Halifax in 2012 about  the way the PPI was sold to 
them. Halifax didnt agree that the PPI was mis-sold.  So Mr and Mrs A, using professional 
representatives, brought their complaint to our service in 2013. Mr and Mrs As 
representatives withdrew the complaint  before we gave an answer on it. 
Mr and Mrs A came  back to our service  in March 2018 when Halifax  made  an offer to refund 
some of the commission and profit share it received because  of the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the offer and think Halifax should refund more.
Our adjudicator thought the offer made  by Halifax was a fair way to resolve the complaint.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint, so the 
complaint has been passed to me
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint about  the sale of the PPI to us in 2013,  but it was later 
withdrawn. In this decision Ive only considered the second complaint that was brought  to our 
service  about the commission and profit share  Halifax got due to the PPI. I havent 
considered how the policy  was sold. Ive only looked  at whether the offer Halifax has made is 
fair. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Halifax said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr and Mrs A paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost 
of PPI for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included  8% per year simple 
interest to compensate  Mr and Mrs A for the time they were out of pocket. 
Mr and Mrs A have  said they should  receive  all the commission and profit  share back  
because they werent  told that Halifax would receive any commission. But Halifax  has done 
what the rules it must follow tell it to do. 
Ref: DRN95552982Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr and Mrs As particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Halifax should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
So I wont  be telling Halifax to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Bank  of Scotland Plc has correctly worked out what it needs to 
pay Mr and Mrs A. 
Bank of Scotland should update and pay its offer to Mr and Mrs A if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9555298