K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  have rejected his claim for 
compensation under section 75 Consumer Credit  Act (1974) (s75).
background
Mr B bought an annual  train season ticket for £4,576 in July 2018 using his Nationwide  credit 
card. But in July and August there was industrial  action  and the train timetables were 
amended and some services were cancelled. 
So Mr B decided not to travel on those days and as there was further industrial action later in 
the year he didnt travel then either.  All in all, Mr B said there  were  13 days  when he chose 
not to use the service  when other  means were more  viable. He asked the train service to 
refund his ticket  cost on a pro-rata basis. But the train service refused. They said theyd put 
on a bus service where necessary and as his season ticket  was for the whole year they 
wouldnt have expected him to travel every day.
Mr B therefore asked Nationwide to refund  part of his ticket price  as he said that, under the 
terms of s75, they were  jointly  liable for any breach of contract  and here thered obviously 
been one. But they rejected his claim as, for many  of the same reasons; they thought the 
contract hadnt been breached.
When Mr B referred his complaint to this service our investigator reviewed the evidence and 
agreed with Mr B. He noticed that the delay repay section  of the contract  set out how much 
compensation a passenger would receive  for different lengths of delay. Mr B had explained 
that his daily trip to work involved  getting  a train from home to a station Ill call W and then 
a further train to his final destination. It was the first part of his journey from home  to W that 
had been replaced by an hourly bus service. The usual train service was half hourly. The 
investigator explained that it was difficult to establish  if the changes to the first part of the 
journey meant that Mr B wouldnt  have been  able to make it to W in time to catch his 
connecting train. But he thought that on balance,  because the bus service  was less frequent,  
Mr B would have been delayed  and should  receive some benefit  under the delay repay 
scheme. He thought it would be fair to suggest 50% of Mr Bs pro-rated train fare should be 
refunded by Nationwide.
But Nationwide disagreed. They said there  hadnt  been a breach of contract  because  
alternative transport had been  provided  and if Mr B used it and had been delayed  he could 
have made  a valid claim. They  said the passenger charter  for the railway in question  said 
that where an emergency or amended timetable was in place, delays would be calculated on 
these amended times. So they suggested  that delays may not have been evidenced. So 
Nationwide asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im persuaded that a breach of contract has occurred and Nationwide should therefore 
provide a limited  refund.  Please let me explain why.
Ref: DRN99945762Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might  be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This section 
of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,  a finance provider can 
be responsible  for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation  made by the supplier. So in 
this case, if there was a breach of contract  then Nationwide should refund some, or all, of 
Mr Bs outlay  on the season ticket.
was there  a breach of contract?
Im persuaded that s30 of the National Rail Conditions of Travel, that refers  to the 
consumers right to a refund if their travel  is delayed or cancelled,  does apply  to Mr B 
irrespective of the fact his ticket is a season  ticket. I say that because  the definition  given to 
Ticket  in the appendices of those conditions says: 
Ticket  any physical  or electronic document or record which entitles a passenger to make a 
journey  between the stations or zones  indicated
And I understand Mr Bs Ticket did entitle  him to make  a journey between the stations in 
question.
Nationwide has also argued  that, as the train service  provider arranged  a bus service  this 
meant the contract  had not been breached. But I dont think thats  reasonable in these 
circumstances. I say that because the replacement service was not the same as the one it 
replaced. It was half as frequent, and probably slower, and I think  its most likely that it would 
therefore have  caused a significant delay to Mr Bs travel plans and it would therefore be 
unreasonable to suggest  it was a comparable service.
Nationwide have also suggested the train services website says any delay resulting from 
strike action  is excluded. But this isnt referred  to in the National Rail Conditions  of Travel or 
in the train companys passenger charter. Here  its clear  that:
Nationwide have suggested theres not been a delay because he didnt actually travel but I 
dont think its reasonable to suggest Mr B had to experience a delay in order to make  a 
claim. Its clear he made an informed choice that, given the changes  to the timetable that he 
was unaware of when  he bought his ticket,  it was best not to travel.  
I can see that the charter explains that were  an emergency or amended timetable is in place, 
delays will be calculated on the basis of that amended timetable. This doesnt  mean  that 
Mr B wasnt  delayed or the new timetable  didnt  impact him. Here, having considered all of 
the factors, Im persuaded that Mr Bs delays would have been  most likely to be more than 
30 minutes and I think a refund of 50%, for the trips Mr B says he didnt make,  is 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN99945763I can see that Mr B has been  sensible in his suggestion about which trips were affected. 
Hes explained that hes only included trips where the timetable was significantly reduced  
and the journey time substantially increased.  For those 13 days  Im persuaded that its most 
likely Mr Bs level of delay  would  have been in the region of 30 minutes per trip and a 50% 
refund is therefore  appropriate in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Nationwide  Building Society 
to allow  Mr Bs claim under section  75 Consumer Credit Act (1974)  and refund £163.88, that 
being the 50% of pro-rata refund using the Delay Repay table for the thirteen days  of 
affected travel. It should add 8% simple  interest  per annum from the date the season ticket  
was purchased to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9994576