K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Yorkshire Building  Society (trading as Chelsea Building  Society) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by phone in 2001 to protect Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage repayments. It was in Mr Rs sole name and gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Yorkshire  Building Society disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Yorkshire Building Society had to give Mr and Mrs R enough  information  so they could make 
an informed decision about  buying PPI.
Mr R had a medical condition at the time of the sale that had been diagnosed in 1990s.  He 
was on medication  and had seen a doctor  in the 12 months prior to the date of the sale.  So 
based on the policy terms he wouldnt have been covered if he needed to make  a claim for 
anything related. This is because this policy excluded any physical or mental condition that 
the policyholder  knew  about at the start date, or that treatment or advice was given  about  in 
the 12 months before the start date.   
Given the recurring nature of his condition  its likely  Mr R wouldve thought it could be a 
reason hed need to claim in the future. So Mr R might not have been able to claim on the 
policy when he needed it. And as this would have mattered to Mr and Mrs R the exclusions 
and limitations should  have been more effectively highlighted to them  as part of the sales  
process. 
Yorkshire Building Society argues the exclusions were explained on the call and in a letter , 
but I dont think  that it has shown they were pointed  out clearly  to Mr and Mrs R. Based on 
its evidence, whilst  some  unrelated hospital tests  were listed in the letter, I dont  agree  that 
the letter gave  clear enough  information  on the pre-existing medical conditions exclusion. 
And as a lot of information would have  been  presented verbally on the call I dont think  that 
alone can be fairly relied on to conclude the society  met its obligations.
So I think Mr and Mrs R have lost out as a result  of Yorkshire Building  Societys  failing in this 
case, because  I dont think they would  have taken out the policy if theyd been properly 
informed.
putting things right
Ref: DRN96954772Yorkshire Building Society should put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and 
Yorkshire Building Society should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Yorkshire  Building  
Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Yorkshire Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Yorkshire Building  Society  must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate  showing how much 
tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and require Yorkshire  
Building Society to compensate them as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9695477