K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were kept on a higher interest  rate when they were  in 
financial difficulties. They feel The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) didnt do enough to 
help them. 
background
Mr and Mrs C have had The One Account  (TOA) with RBS since September  2006. TOA is a 
secured personal  bank  account with RBS and is different to a normal account  because its a 
current account and mortgage account rolled into one. While the account is branded as 
TOA, the mortgage is provided by RBS.
Mr and Mrs C said they encountered  some financial difficulties in 2011  and feel that RBS 
didnt do enough  to help them. They said they were  struggling with the repayments  and had 
no way of paying off the mortgage because RBS continued to charge them  a higher rate of 
interest. 
Mr and Mrs C took out a new mortgage with RBS in September 2017,  with a lower  interest  
rate  and believe that RBS couldve done  something  along  these lines much  earlier. So 
they want a refund of the extra interest they believe theyve  paid over the years.
RBS said that Mr and Mrs C called  them a few times to discuss their account  and the 
interest rate. They said that in July 2011, they agreed they wouldnt charge any fees for 
unpaid direct debits.  And they said they might  be able to reduce the interest rate, but that 
they would  need a valuation completed on the property first  at a charge of £277.  But      
Mr and Mrs C said they didnt go ahead  with this as they didnt feel it was fair that £277 was 
asked for when they were already in financial difficulty.
RBS also said their TOA staff arent  qualified  to give advice or recommendations about any 
other RBS mortgages,  so they wouldnt have expected that to have happened at the time.  
But they did offer to arrange for Mr and Mrs C to discuss any possible options with RBS  
but ultimately Mr and Mrs C declined to go through an application as they believed theyd fail 
the affordability checks. 
Mr and Mrs C brought  their complaint to our service and their complaint was looked at by 
one of our investigators. Our investigator  thought that RBS could have done more  to try and 
help Mr and Mrs C by not asking them for a valuation  fee and that they should have referred 
them to RBS earlier  to discuss new rates. She said that RBS should  pay £200 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with this. They said that £200 wasnt  enough based on the 
thousands of pounds that RBS took from them when they could  have helped  them  sooner. 
They still felt that RBS could have given  them  a lower rate of interest when  they needed 
help, rather than face the prospect of losing their home. So they asked for the complaint to 
be looked at by an ombudsman and it was passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN98272212my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 21 December 2018. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought carefully about what  
Mr and Mrs C have said but Im not intending  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs C feel frustrated about the situation  they were  in 
which has led to this complaint. As they were  having some financial difficulties, Id 
expect RBS to look at ways to help them and treat them fairly. There  are a number of 
ways a lender  might  be able to do this.
There are different aspects that need to be considered with this type of account. TOA 
is not the same as a conventional mortgage because you can use it like a current  
account. I can see that it was set up in 2006 over a term of 24 years  on a repayment 
basis. The key differences between a conventional  mortgage and TOA is that fixed  
monthly payments  do not need  to be made.  Mr and Mrs Cs TOA mortgage offer 
explained that although there is a monthly payment due each month, with TOA you 
are not required to make fixed  monthly payments. The total amount borrowed would 
need to be paid off by the end of the agreed  term.  
The offer confirms that interest will always be applied each month but it would be up 
to Mr and Mrs C to decide  how quickly or slowly they repay their outstanding balance  
 as long as they didnt  go over the agreed  lending. What this means  in simple terms, 
is that Mr and Mrs C would  not be required to pay a certain amount at certain times if 
they were unable to make  any monthly  payments towards their mortgage.  And if they 
wanted to, they could  choose to pay it off much later down the line  as long as they 
didnt go over their limit.
Thats particularly relevant here as it had an obvious  impact  on the types of 
assistance RBS could offer Mr and Mrs C when they were experiencing financial 
difficulties. With conventional mortgages,  we might expect a lender to consider either 
increasing a mortgage term (which  would lower the required monthly payments), 
accepting reduced  payments  to cover interest or of what the borrower can afford or 
possibly accept a period  of non-payment  altogether. But, because of how TOA 
worked, Mr and Mrs C already had all of these  options because  this account  was so 
flexible. To illustrate  that  if Mr and Mrs C chose to miss a years  worth of payments,  
TOA wouldnt chase them for any arrears  because of the way the account  works. 
So in practical terms, I dont think there are that many ways in which  RBS couldve 
helped alleviate the financial  difficulty  that Mr and Mrs C found themselves in  
because they could effectively pay as much  as they were  able to toward their 
mortgage anyway.
Mr and Mrs Cs main concern is that the bank didnt offer them a lower  interest  rate. 
This wouldve reduced the amount  they needed to pay overall  to clear the mortgage. 
So Ive thought about whether that was an option. 
Ref: DRN98272213I can see that Mr and Mrs C did ask RBS for a lower rate in September 2015.  RBS 
said they might be able to do this once they established how much  the property was 
valued at. They said Mr and Mrs C could  pay a fee to see how much the property 
was valued at so that they could  see what  they could offer them.  Mr and Mrs C didnt 
go through with this as they said they couldnt  afford to make  the payment.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs C didnt go ahead with this, but I can understand why 
RBS would have  needed to check the value of the property to see if they were able to 
offer an alternative product to Mr and Mrs C at that time. So while  I appreciate this 
might not have been helpful to Mr and Mrs C, I understand why RBS did this.
I also understand that the rate Mr and Mrs C were on at the time was higher than 
was available  elsewhere, including with other RBS mortgages. But TOA offers  all of 
the facilities that we would normally ask a business to consider. Ive already 
explained why I dont think this would be a fair method. I appreciate it would  have 
been very worrying for Mr and Mrs C at the time because they were unsure how they 
were going  to pay off their mortgage  because they had a strategy in place to pay it off 
much sooner. While  this would have  been very frustrating for Mr and Mrs C, TOA 
didnt need to be paid off any earlier so they still had more  than 15 years before  the 
loan would have  needed to be fully repaid.
Mr and Mrs C have said they think that the TOA part of RBS should have explored 
options with their alterative lending channels within the group companies, especially  
as they ended up taking a new mortgage with RBS. While I do appreciate this is 
frustrating because they do all come under one umbrella, TOA couldnt do this. They 
did give Mr and Mrs C the option of being referred  to RBS but they specifically 
couldnt discuss any of the rates that RBS offered because  this isnt something that 
they are required to do. So I dont think theyve acted unreasonably here.
Mr and Mrs C said they visited a branch of RBS and they were told they couldnt  do a 
new mortgage application with a new rate because of their reduced  income.  RBS did 
offer to carry out an affordability calculation to see if a new rate was possible  on the 
phone at a later date but Mr and Mrs C didnt think they would be accepted   so they 
declined the offer. But they could have given  RBS another opportunity to see if they 
could help. 
I do also think that the TOA employees could have made arrangements  sooner to 
ask someone from their other RBS department, to contact Mr and Mrs C in order to 
discuss alternative interest rates.
However, if this did happen  at the time, Im not sure this would necessarily have 
helped Mr and Mrs C. I say this because  if they did re-mortgage to a new RBS 
conventional mortgage, they would have had to commit to paying their contractual 
monthly payment  each  month. If they were to miss any payments and fall behind,  
RBS would have  contacted them because of the debt. And if Mr and Mrs C were 
unable to keep  up with their repayments, RBS would have been  within  their rights  to 
start legal proceedings against  Mr and Mrs C. This wouldnt  have happened over the 
period of time that Mr and Mrs C had TOA  because of the type of account  that it 
was.
So I cant safely say that even if RBS had done something different for Mr and Mrs C 
earlier, that it would have benefited them in the long run.
Ref: DRN98272214my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS and Mr and Mrs C responded to my provisional decision. RBS accepted what  I had 
said. Mr and Mrs C said they were  disappointed with the provisional decision, and felt that 
RBS made  no effort  to assist them and kept them as mortgage prisoners until they 
threatened them with contacting our service.  They said they were in financial difficulties for 
many years and were uncertain about  their future   and that eventually  RBS helped  with a 
lower interest rate.
I dont underestimate  Mr and Mrs Cs strength of feeling  but Im not persuaded that they 
have added or submitted anything materially new that would lead me to come to a different 
conclusion to the one I did in my provisional  decision.
So based  on this, I see no reason  to depart from my provisional findings  and therefore  wont  
be asking RBS to do anything further.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9827221