K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
Nationwide didnt agree  with my provisional decision and have made  the below main points:
it would  have discussed Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances and brought  to their attention  
the exclusions relating to self-employed persons and what was required to make an 
unemployment claim  and to say otherwise  is speculative. 
it felt its discussion with Mr and Mrs W would have had very little or no impact  on 
their decision  to amend the policy. 
regarding the change in policy terms, Nationwide didnt think the terms significantly 
changed and the new policy terms were just a confirmation of what  was required. 
it also said there was no information failing on the part of the Society   and the fact 
that Mr W was self-employed, when  the amendment was made, isnt a failure  in the 
sales process.
 
Mr and Mrs W responded to my provisional decision but didnt have any new additional 
points for me to consider.
To be clear, my decision  is only in relation to the policy  amendment  made in December 2008 
and not the sale of the policy in 2000 or 2004.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I am upholding this 
complaint. 
Nationwide have said that a face to face meeting took place  to discuss the PPI in December 
2008, but it hasnt been  able to provide me with any evidence of what  was discussed or if a 
recommendation was made. 
I cant be sure if Nationwide supplied  advice to Mr and Mrs W because  I have  seen no 
evidence that it carried out an individual assessment of Mr and Mrs Ws needs and 
circumstances at the point of this amendment. But Nationwide ought to have supplied 
information to Mr and Mrs W that was clear fair and not misleading, as at the meeting 
Nationwide would have  known Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances had changed  as well as the 
change in policy terms. 
I havent been provided with any evidence to show me the information provided on the policy  
exclusions was clear  and I think this would have mattered to Mr and Mrs W because  Mr W 
was self-employed.  And looking at the policy terms it was harder  for Mr W to claim on the 
unemployment benefit than they expected.  
Ref: DRN96109682It is in the nature of self-employment that a self-employed  individual  can experience periods 
without any income without technically being  insolvent, and therefore  may wish to make  a 
claim if unable to work. However,  according to the policy,  Mr and Mrs W would not be able to 
claim for unemployment in such circumstances.  This is because the requirement that the 
insolvency is involuntary means Mr W would have to wait until a third party had declared  him 
insolvent. While the policy does not expressly say Mr W had to totally  or permanently stop 
trading before he could claim,  this is clearly implied because  a third party is unlikely to be 
able to have Mr W declared  insolvent if his business  was still trading and able to pay its 
debts. In addition,  Mr W would have  to evidence that he ceased trading, that he had 
informed the HM Revenue & Customs, provide an Accountants Certificate  to confirm the 
insolvency of his business and prove he was actively seeking work,  if ineligible  for a 
jobseekers agreement.  So, it can be seen that there were a number of hurdles Mr W had to 
overcome before he could claim for unemployment.  
So it doesnt  look like the policy was of much use to Mr and Mrs W in Mr Ws employment 
situation. Therefore,  if Nationwide had given Mr and Mrs W clear  enough  information  about 
the policys exclusions, I dont think theyd have  taken  this amended policy. And so I think  Mr 
and Mrs W have lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs W in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
the amended  PPI in 2008. The policy should  be cancelled  from the amendment  in 2008, if it 
hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W back the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful  claim under the amended PPI policy, Nationwide can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
If the Nationwide has already repaid  any commission amount, in relation to this 
mortgage, to Mr and Mrs W that relates to this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted by 
FICL from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs W can 
claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN96109683my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Nationwide Building  Society should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96109684copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold  them  a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy for their mortgage.
background
This complaint is about  PPI policies taken out to cover a mortgage in 2000 and further advances in 
2002 and 2008. The initial PPI was sold in 2000 but a new policy was sold in 2004 and an 
amendment made in 2008.  It covered Mr W, in case he was off work sick or lost his job. Mr and Mrs 
W paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint in regard to any of the policies. Mr and Mrs W disagreed 
with the adjudicators view on the policy amendment in 2008, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
To be clear,  my decision is only in relation  to the policy amendment made  in December 2008.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Based on what Ive seen, I currently think Mr and Mrs Ws PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain 
why.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs W, so it didnt have to check  it was right for 
them. But it did have  to give Mr and Mrs W information about  the policy  that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading, so they could decide for themselves whether it was right for them. In this case, this is 
particularly relevant  as the terms of the policy had changed  from when  the amendment was made in 
2008.
Based on what Ive seen and been told so far, I dont  think the information Nationwide gave Mr and 
Mrs W about the cover for people employed  on a self-employed basis  was as clear as it should  have 
been. 
I say this because, I cant see that they were provided  any information on the change  of policy terms 
when they made this amendment. Nationwide  argues that Mr and 
Mrs W would  have been  provided a MPPI Amendment Letter after amending  the policy   it has said 
the revised policy document would  have  been  sent to them with this letter. But this was after the 
amendment. 
I cant  safely say Mr and Mrs W received  or read the revised policy terms before completing  the 
amendment. Nationwide had a duty to give Mr and Mrs W all the information they needed to make  an 
informed decision because the terms of the policy  were  changing significantly.  In my opinion,  simply 
saying a revised  policy  document would  have  been  provided isnt meeting  that obligation. The 
relevant limitations and exclusions needed to be made clear in full at the time of the amendment.
In this case, I think this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs W because  Mr W was 
self-employed and it was harder for him to claim the unemployment benefit  than they expected. I say 
this because in order to make a successful claim, Mr W would need to provide proof that his decision 
to cease trading was due to the insolvency  of his business and hed need  declare this to HMRC. This 
Ref: DRN96109685meant that the policy wouldnt have paid out in periods  when Mr W couldnt find work  (if his business 
remained solvent).  And I think this wouldve been the time when Mr and Mrs W wouldve expected to 
be able to claim  on the cover
So it doesnt  look like the policy was of much  use to Mr and Mrs W in Mr Ws employment situation. 
Therefore, if Nationwide had given Mr and Mrs W clear enough information about the policys 
exclusions, then I dont think theyd have bought  this amended policy. And so I think Mr and Mrs W 
have most likely lost out because of what  Nationwide did wrong.
putting things  right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out the 
amended PPI in 2008. The policy should be cancelled from the amendment  in 2008,  if it hasnt been 
cancelled already,  and Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W back  the amount they paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful claim  under the amended PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
If the Nationwide has already repaid  any commission  amount, in relation to this mortgage,  to Mr 
and Mrs W that relates to this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted  by FICL from the redress 
shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs W can 
claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Nationwide Building Society should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Ref: DRN9610968