K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy about 3 loans and an overdraft  he had with Barclays  Bank  UK PLC 
(Barclays). He feels the loans were  mis-sold  to him, and appropriate checks  werent carried  
out to ensure the loans  and overdraft was affordable. He would like any premiums,  interest 
and late fees applied to be refunded to him.
 
background 
On 6 May 2010  Mr H obtained an overdraft facility of £1,000.  He had the following increases; 
10 May 2010 to £3,000, 18 May 2010 to £5,000, 2 March 2011 to £7,200, and 
14 October 2011 to £7,950. Mr H also applied for, and obtained, 3 loans on line; (1) £8,000 
on 26 April 2011, (2) £6,000 on 21 March 2012,  and (3) £1,800  on the 17 April 2012. He 
used all the loans  to reduce the overdrawn balance on his account.
Mr H complains that given his financial position at the time, Barclays  were irresponsible in 
giving him the loans  and overdraft increases. He pointed out that he had a County  Court  
judgment (CCJ)  recorded  against him on the 9 October 2009 which ought to have been 
taken into account.  He said he was also making  late payments to the loans, and his income 
did not support  further lending. In February  2012 Mr H was made redundant,  although it 
appears he did not tell Barclays that prior to applying  for the second  and third loans. 
Barclays described how it used its Enhanced Risk Assessment process to decide whether it 
would grant  the loans.  It calculated that the income into Mr Hs account for the 6 months 
prior to the first loan was an average of £5,240 per month and therefore the loan was 
affordable. The income  for the 6 months prior to the grant of the second and third loans was 
£2,891 per month, which again Barclays said showed the loans were  affordable.  Barclays 
didnt think it had done anything wrong  and said Mr H had managed  his account well, 
pointing to the fact that payments were maintained on the first loan until February 2013.
Mr H was unhappy with Barclays  response so an investigator from this service  looked into 
the complaint  and spent some time talking to both Mr H and Barclays, before issuing her 
final view. She felt Barclays had not acted irresponsibly in granting  the loans in April 2011 
and March 2012, because they werent  to know  that Mr H was facing financial difficulties as 
he had a regular  income. She thought the defaults  applied to his loan accounts for these 
dates were fair. But, in relation to the April 2012 loan and the overdraft increase in 
October 2012 she thought it was clear that Mr H was in financial difficulties and the 
borrowing was unaffordable, because  his regular income had stopped and he was receiving 
benefits. She suggested Barclays remove  the adverse marks relating to that. Barclays didnt 
agree with her recommendation, instead making  an offer to clear the interest on Mr Hs loan 
accounts, and the charges and debit  interest  on the current account, which amounted in total 
to £9,438.31. Mr H didnt agree so the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I wont  repeat the investigators entire 
background summary because it covers the issues and I want  to avoid repetition.  So, if Ive 
not mentioned  something its not because  Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues. My decisions are based on the evidence  supplied to me. Where such  
evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  I consider what is more likely to have happened in 
Ref: DRN91481382the light of that evidence  and the wider  circumstances of the case.  Looking  at the available  
evidence, I think we have  an unfortunate situation here. 
When lending money to a consumer,  Barclays is required to ensure the consumer can repay 
the borrowing  in a sustainable  manner  without it adversely affecting their financial situation. 
As a lender  Barclays  should obtain  sufficient information to make  an informed decision about 
lending. Exactly what a lender should consider  is for each lender to decide and the guidance 
and rules list a number of things each lender may wish to consider. Any checks  should be 
proportionate, based on the size of the borrowing and the borrowers financial situation at the 
time he makes the application to borrow. 
The evidence shows the address recorded  on the CCJ was only on Barclays records  as 
being current between  the 13 July 2008 and the 29 July 2008. Thereafter his address 
changed in July 2008, July 2009,  January 2012, October  2012  and May 2014. So when  the 
first loan was granted in 2011 Mr H had not lived at the address on the CCJ for 3 years or 
so. In these circumstances I dont think it was unfair  that Barclays were  not alerted to the old 
CCJ address.
Barclays have explained their income  assessment  process for the purpose of granting loans, 
by using an Enhanced Risk Assessment.  That involves using information from credit  
reference agencies  as well as the transactional data on a customers  account. They consider 
income from a number of sources and do not just restrict it to earned income from 
employment. That seems  to me to be a fair and reasonable process. 
 
So, looking  at Mr Hs statements in 2011  and 2012,  I can see there was regular  income 
going into his account, and it was from a variety of sources. Ive considered  the monthly 
averages prior to the loans being  granted and I can see why Barclays think the loans were 
affordable at that time.  Mr H was managing his account well, and nothing  adverse was 
received from the credit  reference agencies. Indeed, Mr H maintained payments on his first 
loan until 2013,  which supports the view that he was managing  his account. In addition  I note 
Mr H didnt approach  the bank  to tell them that he was experiencing financial difficulties, and 
it would  be reasonable to assume that if he had been, he would have. So, I think it is 
reasonable to conclude  from this that Mr H was able to afford the first two loans. So I dont 
think Barclays did anything wrong  here.
However by April 2012 the picture was different. By this time Mr H had been made 
redundant, although again it is worthy of note that he had not disclosed that to Barclays. But 
I think it is fair to expect Barclays to have  known that his financial position had dramatically 
changed since he was receiving into his account Job Seekers Allowance, thus indicating he 
was not working.  And I think by this time it would have been clearer that his financial position 
had materially changed. So I think  the granting of this loan and the subsequent  increase in 
overdraft limit was irresponsible. By that time, in my view Barclays  should  have realised  that 
the loans and borrowings were unaffordable for Mr H. 
I have thought about Barclays  offer to Mr H. I think taking all of the circumstances of this 
complaint into account it is a reasonable offer. Barclays have calculated  this using their own 
in house tools, and have  even invited Mr H to perform his own calculation  if he wished. I 
understand he has not. So I think overall  it is fair enough and puts matters right. 
Taking everything into account,  I am going to partially uphold  this complaint because I think  
the third loan and the final overdraft increase was irresponsible. However, I will not be asking 
Ref: DRN91481383Barclays to write off the loans or overdraft or amend Mr Hs credit file as I think  he had the 
full benefit of the money and I think the credit file should be a true reflection of the money he 
currently owes. I will however be asking Barclays to amend the date of the defaults to 
August 2013 rather than August/September 2014,  since that is 6 months from the date Mr H 
made Barclays aware he was in financial  difficulties.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should do the following:
clear the interest  on Mr Hs loan accounts, and the charges and debit interest  on his 
current account, which  in total amounts to £9,438.31.
to amend the date of the defaults  to August 2013.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9148138