K821x#15Complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with what Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) has 
offered to do to put things right as a result of irresponsibly providing her with two loans.
Background
Mrs W complained  about three  loans  which Likely  Loans provided to her in May 2016, June 
2017 and February  2018. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought Likely 
Loans checks before providing loan 1 were  proportionate and so it hadnt treated Mrs W 
unfairly when providing this loan. But she also thought reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have shown  Likely Loans it shouldnt have provided Mrs W with loans 2 and 3. 
Likely Loans agreed with our adjudicators  assessment.  In order to put things right, it wanted 
to repay  the difference between the interest, fees and charges Mrs W paid on loans 2 and 3 
and the interest  rebate  she received because loan 1 was paid early. It would then add 
interest to any compensation due  at 8% simple a year  and remove  any adverse 
information recorded on Mrs Ws credit  file as a result of loans 2 and 3. 
Our adjudicator told Likely Loans this wasnt the way her assessment directed  it to put things 
right and Mrs W wasnt happy with this alternative offer of settlement. As the parties couldnt 
agree on how Likely  Loans should put things right, the case  was referred to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable  and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules,  guidance and good industry practice and how we 
typically say a lender  should put things right in the event  we think it shouldnt  have provided 
a loan - on our website.  Ive referred to this approach when looking at Mrs Ws case.  
Both Mrs W and Likely Loans are in agreement  about which loans  should  and shouldnt have 
been provided. So I dont need to look at Likely Loans decisions to provide loans 2 and 3. I 
simply need decide whether what it has offered to do to put things right for Mrs W is fair and 
reasonable. And having carefully  thought  about  everything provided, I think  Likely Loans 
needs to do more to put things right for Mrs W in this case. Ill explain why I think  this in a 
little more detail.
I think it would help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we 
decide) it provided  a loan when it shouldnt have done, wed usually  expect it to refund the 
interest and charges added to the loan that shouldnt have been given  in other words 
anything charged  over the amount  lent. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 
8% simple  interest per year. The lender will normally also remove  adverse information   
recorded on the consumers credit file as a result  of the interest and charges on those loans. 
So, in this case, this would involve  Likely Loans refunding all of the interest and charges   
Mrs W paid on loans 2 and 3. And removing any adverse  information  recorded on Mrs Ws 
credit file as a result of these loans. 
Ref: DRN94078852Likely Loans agrees refunding the interest and charges Mrs W paid on loans  2 and 3 
provides a useful  starting point. But it doesnt  believe that doing  this alone puts Mrs W in the 
position shed  now be in if she hadnt  been  given loans 2 and 3 in the first place. It says that 
as everyone agrees it didnt do anything wrong when providing loan 1, it should it is entitled 
to deduct the amount of the interest rebate  Mrs W received on this loan as a result of 
repaying it with some  of the proceeds  of loan 2. 
Although not fully articulated in this way, its argument appears  to be that it should be able to 
recover the full cost of the contract for loan 1, because  this contract would more likely than 
not have been fully performed had loan 2 not been  provided. And any compensation paid 
now for loans 2 and 3 should fairly and reasonably reflect this is the position Mrs W would be 
in now if these loans  had not been  provided to her.
Ive thought about Likely Loans argument.  However, Im not persuaded by it for a couple  of 
reasons. Firstly, I have an overarching concern with Likely  Loans  proposed  methodology 
because irrespective of how the funds to repay  loan 1 were obtained, this loan was settled in 
June 2017. I dont think its fair for Likely Loans  to now retrospectively attempt to amend this 
loan (bearing in mind  it wasnt a write off of capital but rather  a refund of interest in line with 
Likely Loans statutory  obligations) more  than three  years later simply because it now 
accepts it acted unfairly towards Mrs W.  
In any event, leaving aside my overarching concerns regarding Likely Loans methodology, 
the particular circumstances  of this case lead me to think  that its inappropriate for a 
deduction of the type Likely Loans  has proposed to be made here. I say this because the 
circumstances here persuade me it doesnt  automatically follow  the contract for loan 1 would 
have been fully performed, in the way Likely Loans is suggesting, in the event loan 2 hadnt 
been provided. 
As I understand it Mrs W still had 6 payments of £149.32 to make  on loan 1 when she was 
provided with loan 2. I accept its entirely  possible Mrs W would have gone on to make all of 
these payments on time and in accordance with the agreement. But I dont think that I can 
reasonably reach the conclusion this would more likely than not have happened bearing in 
mind the facts of this case and the matters  the parties are now in agreement  on.  
Im particularly mindful that our adjudicators findings  in relation to loan 1, which both parties 
accepted, werent  that the monthly  payments for loan 1 were affordable. What our 
adjudicator said was the checks Likely Loans  carried out before providing loan 1 were  
proportionate, so it was entitled to rely on what it gathered when deciding  to lend. 
I think this is an important  distinction to make  here because our adjudicator  thought the 
repayments for loan 2, which  were only £1 a month more, were unaffordable  and that 
proportionate checks at this stage would  have shown Likely Loans  this. So if all the parties  
agree that monthly payments of £150.32  were unaffordable for Mrs W in June 2017, I dont 
see how the 6 remaining  payments of £149.32  would have been any more affordable for  
Mrs W at this stage.  And it seems to me that Mrs W would more  likely than not have had 
difficulty making the remaining payments on loan 1 had she not been provided  with loan 2. 
In these circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to conclude that its more likely  than not 
Mrs W would  have fully performed the contract for loan 1 in the event she hadnt been 
provided with loan 2. Its just as if not more  likely   bearing in mind the circumstances     
Mrs W would  have had to stop making  payments  or borrowed elsewhere. As such, Im 
satisfied that notwithstanding any overarching concerns about Likely Loans method in 
Ref: DRN94078853principle, the particular circumstances of this complaint mean I dont think  the deduction 
Likely Loans wishes to make from the compensation due to Mrs W is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of this case.
As this is the case, I think that Likely  Loans should  instead put things right in the way that 
Ive set out below.
Fair compensation  what  Likely Loans  needs to do to put things  right for Mrs W.
As I understand it, the amount Mrs W borrowed for loan three was more  than it should have 
been because  she had to borrow more to repay  interest and charges which Likely  Loans 
now needs to refund.  I think  that the compensation paid now needs to reflect that and I think 
its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Mrs Ws complaint for Likely Loans to put 
things right in the following way:
The additional new funds  Mrs W received as a result of being provided with loan 3 
should be added to the total amount advanced for loan 2. The payments Mrs W 
made to loans 2 and 3 should then be deducted from this amount. If Mrs W has 
already repaid more than the combined  amount of new funds received on loan 3 and 
the total amount advanced  for loan 2, any extra should be treated as overpayments  
and refunded to her;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, should there be any, from 
the date they were  made by Mrs W, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Ws credit  file as a result of loans  2 
and 3.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to take off tax from this interest. Likely  
Loans must give Mrs W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Ws complaint. Oakbrook Finance Limited 
should put things right for Mrs W in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9407885