K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with a burst pipe as part of a home emergency insurance policy.  He wants compensation.
background 
Mr S had a home emergency insurance  policy with Amtrust. A pipe burst at his property, 
causing water to escape, in 2018. Mr S was unhappy that it took over an hour for him to 
reach someone on the emergency telephone line and said that he was told as hed turned off 
the water, nothing  further would be done to assist him. Mr S also said that he wasnt offered 
alternative accommodation (but he did stay with family).  
Mr S called again the next day and said a plumber visit was promised, but didnt take place. 
Mr S said after ten days, he called again and more visits  from plumbers were  promised,  but 
no-one came. Mr S made his own arrangements  to repair the water  supply, but said he was 
unable to live at the property due to the building works. He felt some  of this couldve been  
avoided if Amtrust had acted promptly and appropriately.
Mr S complained to Amtrust. It upheld his complaint  and offered to pay for the costs of 
repairing the burst pipes  and £100.
Mr S complained to us, and wanted  us to give him punitive compensation as he felt that the 
offer didnt reflect the devastation he felt. He also pointed out that Amtrust didnt even offer 
the £250 the policy said it would pay towards alternative accommodation. Amtrust accepted 
that it had given poor service and shouldve followed up on Mr S statement that a plumber 
had attended  the property  to see if that plumber could carry out the repair.  It also accepted 
that the plumbers it tried to send didnt attend. Amtrust said that it understood Mr S plumber 
costs were now being paid by another  insurer under  a different policy.
The adjudicators view was that it wasnt for this service to tell a business how to operate. 
But she noted that it took 12 days for Amtrust to tell Mr S that it couldnt  send a plumber to 
his area and in the meantime he was without water  or electricity.  The adjudicator thought  the 
initial waiting time to speak to someone  was beyond  Amtrusts control as poor weather 
caused high call volumes, and that she didnt think Mr S having  to stay with family had a 
detrimental impact. She thought compensation should be increased to £200  for trouble and 
upset.
Amtrust agreed to the increase of compensation but Mr S relative disagreed and wrote on 
his behalf. They said that Amtrust shouldve predicted the poor weather to avoid long waiting 
times to answer the phone and sleeping  on a sofa was an inconvenience.  Mr S relative felt 
Amtrust shouldnt be allowed to sell such policies and the proposed  £200  compensation was 
an insult (and that Mr S relatives should  also get compensation). 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96492442This service doesnt punish businesses for making  mistakes and wont  give punitive 
compensation. Our role is to put the consumer  back into the position that he shouldve  been 
in all along if the mistake  hadnt been  made. This can include compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by the failings of the business,  but not for wider concerns about  how the 
business operates.
In Mr S case, theres  no dispute  that his insurance  covered him in the circumstances for the 
repair cost of the leak and up to £250  for one nights alternative  accommodation at Amtrusts 
discretion. But it seems another insurer is paying for the plumber costs and Mr S didnt pay 
for alternative accommodation (and there was no point in sending him to a hotel for one 
night to then return  to his relatives). Amtrust wasnt responsible for the original leak and Mr S 
ensured that the water supply was stopped to prevent  further damage.  I cant  say that its fair 
or reasonable for any other financial losses to be paid.
But the core of this complaint is really about Mr S upset at Amtrusts response and failures 
(not the situation generally). His relatives  arent entitled to any compensation as they werent 
the policy holder.  Amtrust accepts that it made  several mistakes.  I dont accept that the 
waiting time to speak  to someone was unfair or unreasonable;  the reality  is when poor 
weather occurs,  waiting times will increase and there may not be sufficient staff available. 
But the initial  refusal to send anyone, or find out if a local plumber could assist to repair the 
pipe (not repair the overall damage  which was the responsibility of another  insurer),  
combined with the 12 day wait to discover that no plumber would be sent was unfair and 
unreasonable. The actual work to deal with the damage was for another insurer and was 
unaffected by Amtrusts failings.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset, but putting to one side Mr S general 
upset about the damage and his beliefs about  how Amtrust operates  (which arent failings for 
which compensation should be paid), I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable to 
reflect the trouble and upset suffered for the initial response, delay in acknowledging  no 
plumber could be sent by Amtrust and not asking Mr S earlier  to arrange a plumber to assist.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Amtrust Europe  Limited  should  pay Mr S 
£200 compensation for his trouble and upset  (which is inclusive of the £100 compensation 
that it has already  offered). In the event  that Mr S has not been reimbursed for the cost of 
the plumber who repaired the burst pipe, Amtrust Europe Limited should also pay him this 
sum. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9649244