K822xcomplaint
Mr N brings a complaint  on behalf  of U, a limited  company, about a financial agreement  he 
entered into with New Wave Capital Limited.  
background 
Mr N entered into a credit agreement on behalf  of U. He says New Wave have breached the 
contract and theyve not been able to provide  a breakdown of the interest and fees that have 
been charged to his account. Hes also mentioned  he wasnt  aware  hed personally  
guaranteed the credit  facility. 
New Wave says the charges and interest  have  been  applied  fairly and in line with the terms 
and conditions Mr N agreed to. So New Wave say they havent done anything  wrong.  They 
provided evidence  which included tracked  internet sessions of Mr N using his account, 
including the application process.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Us complaint  and Mr N asked an ombudsman to look into his 
complaint. Whilst Ive been  considering  Mr Ns complaint, hes raised  a number of additional 
issues and these are set out later in this decision.
my first provisional  decision
In July 2018 I issued a provisional decision and provided Mr N with a copy of the screen  
tracking sessions so he could see the information Id relied on when reaching  my decision.  In 
my provisional decision I set out my initial thoughts about this complaint. In summary I said:  
I didnt think the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applied in this case  because  U was a 
limited company. This was also referred to in the terms  and conditions of the 
account. But I didnt  think this was central  to the complaint because New Wave  lent 
U money, so it was a complaint that our service could consider. And I said Id reach 
my conclusions  taking  into account the law, relevant regulations and good industry 
practice in order to decide what  was fair and reasonable; 
I was satisfied information about how the account  worked was drawn to Mr Ns 
attention, including the interest  and charges. I thought it was clear  some services on 
the account would attract a financial charge and Mr N had a fair opportunity  to look 
at information  about the account before entering into the agreement; 
I thought New Wave  took reasonable steps  to draw to Mr Ns attention that he was 
entering into a personal guarantee;  
I was satisfied New Wave had provided a reasonable  explanation for the charges 
and interest applied to the account  and it was most likely theyd been applied  fairly 
and in line with the account terms and conditions.  I also thought it was most likely 
that credits to the account had been  applied fairly and in line with the account terms 
and conditions;
I didnt think it was unreasonable  that New Wave wouldnt cancel  the account 
because U had an outstanding balance. 
Ref: DRN96360752responses to my first provisional decision
Mr N responded and made a number of further  points. In summary he said:
My summary of the complaint in my first provisional decision was incorrect  hes 
complained that after hed signed up to the contract  New Wave has breached the 
agreement;
Id not read or understood the complaint;
Id relied on information thats  been unlawfully obtained by New Wave  and theyve 
hacked into his computer on numerous occasions;
The charges  applied to the account  were misrepresented as they were  called 
financial charges  rather than interest;
The interest hasnt  been correctly calculated;
New Wave didnt say they would take money from the available credit;
New Wave have breached the contract  with U; 
New Wave have written  to him and referred to the Consumer Credit Act which 
contradicts the findings I made  in my provisional decision.
Mr N raised a separate complaint  with New Wave  about the information which had been 
provided to our service  during the investigation as he says the videos show  New Wave  
hacked into his computer. New Wave has provided  a final response in relation to this so I 
said I would  take those points into account.  
Mr N also raised  a complaint with the Information  Commissioners Office  (ICO)  about the 
recordings that were made  by New Wave  of him accessing his account. At that time the ICO 
hadnt yet allocated his complaint to a caseworker. 
New Wave agreed the CCA didnt apply to the agreement and had no further 
representations on that point. 
I asked New Wave for more information about  their security software. They  confirmed that 
as part of the application process Mr N confirmed that hed read and agreed to their privacy  
policy which  was provided using a hyperlink. 
They told us the relevant  sections of the privacy policy say:  
We will collect and process all or some of the following personal information about you:
(a)Information you provide to us
Personal information that you provide to us, such as when using the application 
form on our Website,  including your name, email address, and other contact 
details; 
Ref: DRN96360753(b)Your transactions
Details of transactions  you carry out through our Website or through  other  
channels and of the fulfilment of services we provide. This will include card 
transaction and usage data that we collect when you use your Capital on Tap 
Business Visa Card  or your Capital  on Tap Corporate  Mastercard, and draw 
down dates, values  and bank account  information where applicable;
(c)Website and communication usage
Details of your visits to our Website and information collected through cookies 
and other tracking technologies, including, but not limited to, your IP address, 
domain name, your browser version  and operating system, traffic data, location 
data, web logs and other communication data, and the resources you access.
New Wave explained the system they use starts recording  a session when a customer visits 
the website and logs in. It doesnt  pick up information from a users  computer,  browser 
session or screen,  or any tabs. It also doesnt allow New Wave to see information such as a 
customers password or PIN number. And it doesnt allow  them to see full card details 
entered by a customer. 
Mr N told us his concern regarding this wasnt about  whether or not the recording system 
has sensitive information, but the fact that their data uniquely identified him and such data 
can only be gathered  with consent. Mr N said the privacy policy isnt enough and there  has 
to be explicit consent from him to allow New Wave to record his web sessions.
my second  provisional  decision  
In October  2018 I issued  a second provisional decision. In summary I said: 
I remained satisfied that the agreement wasnt a regulated credit  agreement because 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  applied to agreements between  an individual 
and a creditor. New Wave  was providing credit  to U, a limited company, not Mr N. So 
although Mr N personally guaranteed  the account, New Wave  wasnt  providing credit  
to him. The credit  was being provided  to U and therefore the agreement didnt fall 
within the CCA;
Our service cannot make a finding  about whether there has been  a breach of data 
protection legislation. Thats something  that the ICO will need to decide. I explained 
that Mr N had made a complaint to the ICO and hed not yet received their findings. I 
went on to say I was not intending  to await the outcome  of Mr Ns complaint to the 
ICO as I didnt think it will make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. Thats  
because I would  not be bound by a decision made by the ICO and I could take into 
the account the relevant law when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case;  
It was bought to Mr Ns attention in the privacy policy the sessions could be tracked  
and his personal data would be collected and processed.  He agreed to be bound by 
the terms of the privacy policy when he made  his application. So it wasnt  
unreasonable for New Wave  to track the sessions  and I was still intending  to rely on 
the evidence from the tracked  sessions when reaching my decision.  I thought  it was 
important evidence  which was key to understanding whether  New Wave treated Mr N 
fairly during  the application process  and, consequently, whether his other complaint 
points have any merit
Ref: DRN96360754I was satisfied that Mr N was made aware  there was a charge for using some 
services on the account when  he signed  up for it. In reaching this conclusion  Id 
taken into account all of the relevant considerations, including  the terms in the 
contract setting out how interest  would be charged. So I didnt agree that this 
information was unfairly  presented  to him
Mr N set up a direct  debit to pay the minimum payment from his New Wave  account. 
Theres also a section  that explains the monthly  minimum payment  will automatically  
be scheduled and processed from the nominated payment method. So I dont think 
its fair to say that New Wave  didnt make it clear  to Mr N that they would take money 
from the available credit as it seems  most  likely to me that he set the direct  debit up 
to come out of the New Wave  account.  So I thought thats why money  was deducted  
from the available credit
I thought New Wave  had provided  a reasonable explanation of the charges applied. 
But, even if the interest was incorrect, it didnt automatically follow  the whole contract 
should be cancelled.  The amounts of interest involved were nominal and were just a 
fraction of the overall balance. And, as Id outlined in my first provisional decision,
Mr N couldnt cancel  the account whilst there was an outstanding balance.
responses to my second provisional decision
New Wave didnt have  anything further  to add. Mr N responded  with further  comments. In 
summary he said: 
The debt has been sold on to another company, despite New Wave saying they 
wouldnt;
New Wave constantly miscalculated the interest  and has broken UK common  laws. 
Its a vital term of the contract to get the interest calculation right. The failure  to get 
the calculation  right means the contract  should be terminated  and New Wave should 
pay damages;
New Wave have frustrated the commercial purposes of this contract and U has been  
deprived of the benefit of the whole contract. So Mr N says the whole contract  should  
be terminated under the principles of frustration  or renunciation of the contract;
He was mis-led and rushed into making a decision  about the personal guarantee;
There ought to be a pop up box which says that the website user agrees to their web 
sessions being  recorded. There has been  a breach of privacy as he wasnt explicitly 
told that web sessions  would  be recorded;
He would like me to re-consider my thoughts  on the application  of the CCA  in this 
complaint as it was incredibly important in this case;
He assumed he would always be charged 4.94% per month.  He knows how interest  
works and has never disputed the actual interest rate. The problem is that New Wave 
has incorrectly calculated the specified  interest rate on several occasions;
By law I should look at whether there has been a breach of contract and thats what  it 
says on our website; 
Ref: DRN96360755There is an implied term which  says New Wave  should supply services  with 
reasonable care and skill. Correctly  charging  interest is part of this and the contract 
should be terminated. 
I asked New Wave to provide me with more information about their privacy policy, which 
they did. I then asked to see a full copy of the privacy  and cookies policy in place at the time 
Mr N made  his application. 
my third provisional decision
In March 2019 I issued my third provisional  decision.  In summary, I explained Mr Ns further 
comments hadnt changed my thoughts because: 
I remained satisfied the CCA  doesnt apply to the contract for the same reasons I 
explained in my first and second provisional decisions;
I thought the basis upon which New Wave  processed Mr Ns personal data was 
consent, which is a condition under Schedule 2 DPA 1998. Having taken into account 
the relevant data protection legislation and the ICOs guidance, I considered it was 
fair and reasonable for New Wave to record Mr Ns web sessions;
I thought New Wave  had brought to Mr Ns attention in the privacy  policy  that the 
sessions could be tracked and his personal  data would be collected and processed.  
He agreed to be bound by the terms of the privacy policy  when he made his 
application. So, I was satisfied New Wave took reasonable steps to obtain his 
consent;
The rules which set out how our service  operates are contained in the FCA 
Handbook within the section called DISP  Dispute Resolution:  Complaints  (DISP). 
DISP rule 3.5.9R says I can exclude  evidence that would otherwise be admissible in 
a court  or include  evidence that would  not be admissible in a court;
I thought the recorded web sessions were important evidence  which  was key to 
understanding whether New Wave treated Mr N fairly during the application process  
and, consequently, whether his other complaint  points had any merit. So I still 
thought it was fair to rely on this evidence when deciding whether Mr N was treated 
fairly;
I explained that under section 225 Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000, our 
service is set up to resolve  disputes  quickly and with minimal  formality. So, whilst  I 
wasnt able to make a specific finding  about  whether  there  had been a breach of 
contract or not in the same way a court would,  I would take into account  the relevant 
law when reaching my decision about  whats fair and reasonable;
Not every breach  of a contract would entitle an innocent party  to exercise their 
common law right to terminate. In this case New Wave had given a reasonable 
explanation for their calculations of interest. As Id explained in my previous decisions 
I thought it was made clear to Mr N that some services on the account would attract  a 
charge;
Ref: DRN96360756New Wave explained theyd made  a typing  error  when completing a summary of the 
interest charged on the account  when preparing information for our service. I said, 
based on the revised document  provided by New Wave, that it was most likely Mr N 
was charged the correct  interest,  in line with the credit agreement.  In any event, even 
if there had been a mistake like the 90 pence discrepancy mentioned by Mr N, I didnt 
think it would be open to Mr N to cancel the whole contract. The amounts of interest 
involved were very small and represented a fraction  of the overall balance  of the 
account;
I wasnt persuaded it would have been  impossible for the parties to fulfil the contract. 
So, even  if there were minor mistakes with the interest charged,  I didnt think  the 
contract could be discharged on the grounds of frustration either. In any event, I 
thought it was fair and reasonable for New Wave to charge Mr N interest in the way 
they did;
Mr Ns point that New Wave should provide services with reasonable care and skill 
doesnt change  my thoughts about  the outcome of this complaint, as theres no 
evidence to suggest that New Wave acted  without reasonable care and skill;
I didnt think Mr N was mis-led or rushed  into making a decision about  the personal  
guarantee. He had the opportunity to read through the information about the credit 
agreement. I thought  hed he had a fair opportunity  to decide whether this agreement 
was what he wanted and he knew it included a personal guarantee;
Copies of the privacy  and cookie policies Id relied on were attached to my third 
provisional decision.  
responses to my third provisional decision
Mr N responded to say: 
He didnt agree with my investigation  
He had the right to terminate a contract  after a breach of contract, no matter  how 
trivial the breach  was 
New Wave hadnt exercised reasonable duty or skill  he doubted  there was just one 
typing error. Theyd miscalculated the interest,  breached the contract  and it should  be 
terminated 
New Wave implicitly promised to correctly  calculate the interest and they havent  
done so 
Hed repeated  his points many  times  but isnt being heard. He hopes an independent  
assessor will finally see his points. 
New Wave responded to say: 
The ICO had ruled there had been no breach in data protection legislation  
Ref: DRN96360757They commented on how the direct debit system worked in relation to the account   
money was taken from the nominated  bank  account  and credit  was applied to the 
New Wave account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The further comments dont change my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. Im 
not upholding Us complaint because: 
Mr N hasnt provided any new evidence  or points  to  suggest New Wave acted 
without reasonable care and skill; 
Mr N hasnt provided any new evidence  or points in relation to the breach of contract;
As Ive outlined in my provisional decisions not every  breach of a contract will entitle 
the innocent party  to exercise their common law right to terminate. In this case New 
Wave has given  a reasonable explanation  for their calculations of interest  and I 
remain satisfied it was made clear to Mr N that some services on the account  would 
attract a charge; 
New Wave explained theyd made  a typing  error  when completing a summary of the 
interest charged on the account  for our service. I said, based on the revised 
document provided by New Wave, that its most likely Mr N was charged the correct 
interest, in line with the credit  agreement. In any event, even if there had been a 
mistake like the 90 pence discrepancy mentioned by Mr N, I dont think  it would be 
open to Mr N to cancel the whole contract. The amounts of interest involved were 
very small  and represented a fraction of the overall balance  of the account; 
Im still not persuaded it would have been  impossible for the parties to fulfil the 
contract. So, even  if there were minor mistakes with the interest charged, I didnt 
think the contract could be discharged on the grounds of frustration either.  In any 
event, I thought it was fair and reasonable for New Wave  to charge Mr N interest  in 
the way they did;
I am not bound by a decision made  by the ICO. However, as Ive outlined  in my 
provisional decisions I have taken into the account  the relevant law when  deciding  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Ref: DRN96360758my final decision
Im not upholding Us complaint about New Wave Capital Limited. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr N, on behalf  of U, to accept or reject  
my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9636075