K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Ms S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland  trading at the time of 
sale as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr M and Ms S bought a MPPI policy to protect their mortgage  repayments. They  arranged  
joint cover  during a telephone call in July 2000  with a representative from Bank of Scotland.
Mr M and Ms S believe Bank of Scotland mis-sold the policy.  They say the policy  was not 
suitable and no information was sought  about their circumstances at the time of sale.  Mr M 
has also recently said he didnt give his consent to have the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr M and Ms S dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Ms Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr M and Ms Ss complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr M and Ms S when they were  sold 
MPPI during  a telephone  call. Ive looked at what they have said about how the policy 
was sold  including that it was not explained  at all to them. I do have regard for what  
they have said,  but because  understandably their recollections are not detailed,  I have 
needed to also look into documentation from the time sale and consider what I know  of 
sales conducted by Bank  of Scotland at that time. And having done  this, I consider it is 
likely they were  advised it was a good  idea to have  the insurance  to protect their 
mortgage repayments, and they took the policy on that advice. 
I say this because  the documentation I do have suggests to me that the policy  was 
presented as optional. Bank  of Scotland has provided sales documentation that would 
suggest to me that Mr M and Ms S were  given a choice and a conversation  was more 
likely than not had around having it. An MPPI  application form most likely used by the 
representative during the phone call, shows that questions were asked regarding                      
Mr M and Ms Ss circumstances. It demonstrates that it is likely a conversation was had 
between both parties and a choice was made. So I think Mr M and Ms S were given a 
choice to have  the MPPI policy. I have not seen enough evidence through  sales 
documentation or heard a detailed enough recollection from Mr M and Ms S to conclude 
otherwise. 
As I have already  mentioned,  I think Bank  of Scotland recommended  the MPPI to         
Mr M and Ms S, but it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable for them  based on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time.  They  both have said they had at least  3 months 
sick pay and 3 months savings at the time of sale but I think the policy would have been 
useful in a time of need, if either of them became sick or were  made  unemployed for an 
Ref: DRN94243882extended period  of time. I also couldnt find anything else within  the policy  terms that 
would have made it unsuitable  for Mr M and Ms S such  as restrictive or significant terms.
Bank of Scotland has provided  some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  
that Mr M and Ms S took out. That said I dont know if the costs were disclosed clearly  
during the phone  call. But even if it did disclose the costs  in a clear  way, I dont think it 
would have made any difference to the choice Mr M and Ms S made  for the reasons I 
have already given.  The policy was reasonably priced compared to similar policies 
available at the time and to the monthly  mortgage  repayment. And Mr M and Ms S could 
have cancelled the MPPI if it did become  unaffordable.
Mr M has recently said he doesnt think he gave his consent to have the policy. But as I have 
already concluded I think  on balance, both Mr M and Ms S were  aware the policy was 
optional and chose  the joint cover. I havent  seen enough from Mr M either from 
documentation or his recollections of that time that would make me conclude otherwise.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M and Ms S, but in conclusion I do not 
uphold their complaint  for the reasons  that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr M and Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M and Ms S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9424388