K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained as they are unhappy with repairs  carried  out to their car 
following an accident  in late 2015 that are still causing issues  today.
Repairs were originally arranged by their motor insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
background
Following an accident in 2015  Mr and Mrs M contacted their insurance company  Admiral  to 
arrange repairs. Repairs were arranged shortly  after the accident and the car returned to 
Mr and Mrs M.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs M complained to Admiral about issues  with the previous repairs that 
were not correctly rectified at the time.  Admiral agreed to pay for additional repairs  at this 
stage at an unapproved garage chosen  by Mr and Mrs M.
However, several months later Mr and Mrs M continued to find problems with their car that 
required further repair. Admiral has explained that it is not responsible for any further  repairs  
as following  the repairs in 2016  and 2018  Mr and Mrs Ms car was inspected by an 
independent assessor and the repairs were found to be acceptable.
Admiral has also explained that if the repairs in 2018 were unacceptable,  that it would not be 
responsible for putting them right as the garage  used was an unapproved repairer and they 
are unable to guarantee the work. 
Since Mr and Mrs Ms complaint has been  with our service  it has been considered several 
times. Our Investigator  that looked at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint recently thought that based  
on the information we currently have it would  be unfair to ask Admiral to do anything  further 
to resolve their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Ms car had been  repaired several times over the years  with the information 
provided at the time from independent engineers  stating the repairs  were suitable.  Although  
Mr and Mrs M have  provided a report from their own independent  engineer our Investigator  
thought the car had travelled a fair distance  since each repair  and there wasnt enough 
evidence to show that any current damage  was as a result  of the first repair.  She also 
explained that she was unable to hold Admiral responsible for any poor repairs  that may 
have been carried  out by an unapproved repairer.  
As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree their complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have  stated  their car should  have been written off from the outset. But Mr and 
Mrs Ms motor  insurance policy, like most  other motor insurance policies allows Admiral to 
arrange repairs to their car following an accident.
Ref: DRN92682682This complaint dates  back a long time so it is difficult to get a full picture of what  happened  at 
the time of each  repair. I have based my decision on all the information provided  by both 
sides. 
Following the original repairs that were completed  in 2016 Mr and Mrs M complained in 2018 
about issues that they say were apparent as a result  of the original repairs  that were carried 
out. 
I think Mr and Mrs M would have  noticed  evidence of poor repairs  relatively  soon after they 
were carried  out, or during routine services but Mr and Mrs M didnt return  to Admiral until 
around two years later in 2018 after their car had travelled a substantial  distance.
Despite this Admiral agreed to cover the cost of repairs  to Mr and Mrs Ms car at an 
independent garage that was not one of their approved repairers. Approved repairers are 
those that insurers  have experience using and, on most occasions, have agreed rates. Due 
to these agreements  insurers are often able to guarantee the work  carried  out.
As the repairs in 2018 were carried out by a non-approved repairer  Admiral  would not be 
responsible for guaranteeing  the work carried  out, and any complaint about these repairs 
would need to be directed  towards that repairing garage.
In any event Mr and Mrs Ms car travelled a substantial distance following the repair  in 2018 
before further  issues were  brought to Admirals attention,  which suggests no problems were 
found with the car until sometime after the repairs were carried out.
I appreciate the efforts Mr and Mrs M have  gone to in arranging an independent  inspection  
of their own on their car, but I dont think the report produced following the inspection shows  
enough evidence  to support any outstanding  damage is as a result  of poor repairs  in 2016.
With everything considered I dont  think there  is enough evidence that the damage currently 
found on Mr and Mrs Ms car is as a result of previous  repairs arranged by Admiral. Given 
the time that has now passed I also dont think any further assessment of the car would 
provide a further insight of where the damage originated from, or that Admiral are 
responsible for further repairs.
As I am unable to say with certainty  that the damage  Mr and Mrs M are currently 
complaining about is a result of the original repairs being carried  out incorrectly,  I dont think 
Admiral should have to do anything more  than they already have.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 August 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9268268