K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about  Covea Insurance plcs decision to avoid  their home 
insurance policies  and refuse their claim.  Theyre  also unhappy that Covea think  they have a 
right to recover amounts  theyve paid on previous claims. 
background 
Mrs S took out a home  insurance policy for her and Mr S with Covea in November 2015 
through a comparison  website.  When she did this, she was asked  if she or anyone  living  at 
the home had ever been convicted of any crime. Mrs S answered no to this question. The 
policy renewed in November 2016  and Mr and Mrs S were asked to check  the information  
Mrs S had provided in 2015 and let Covea  know if any of it was incorrect. This included  the 
fact no-one living  at the property had ever been  convicted of a crime. Mr and Mrs S didnt let 
Covea know that the information was incorrect. 
Mr and Mrs S made two claims in 2016. Both were settled by Covea with payments totalling 
around £22,000. Mr and Mrs S made a further claim for an escape of water  in March 2017.  
At the time,  Mrs S was asked if anyone living at the property had ever been  convicted of a 
crime. And  again  she answered no. Covea had already started dealing with the claim 
and paid out around £5,000. 
Covea discovered  Mrs S was convicted  of a crime in August 2011 and that this conviction 
wasnt spent in November  2015 when she and Mr S took out the policy with them. In view of 
this, they avoided both their policies and refused to pay any more on Mr and Mrs Ss claim. 
They also said they wanted to recover what theyd paid on Mr and Mrs Ss previous two 
claims.
Mrs S complained to Covea, but they maintained  their stance. So Mr and Mrs S complained  
to us. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. She said she didnt think  
Covea were entitled to avoid  both Mr and Mrs Ss policies. And that, while she agreed  they 
were entitled  to avoid  Mr and Mrs Ss first policy from November 2015,  this should have 
been on the basis Mrs S had made  a careless  misrepresentation,  as opposed to a fraudulent 
one about her criminal  conviction. She said Covea should remove  the fraud  marker for the 
avoidance of the first policy  and reinstate the policy that started in November 2016 and deal 
with Mr and Mrs Ss claim under  it.  
Covea didnt accept  the investigators  recommendations.  But the complaint was then put on 
hold as a result of a criminal court case about Mrs Ss misrepresentation when she took out 
the first policy. 
After the court case was concluded,  Covea  agreed  to treat Mrs S misrepresentation on the 
first policy as careless and remove the fraud  marker.  They also agreed to reinstate the 
second policy from November 2016. They further agreed not to pursue recovery of the 
amounts paid on the claims Mr and Mrs S had made under the first policy.  This was on the 
basis they would not pay out anything further  in relation to the claim Mr and Mrs S had made 
in March 2017. 
Our investigator explained to Mrs S that she felt this was a fair and reasonable outcome to 
her and Mr Ss complaint. But  in addition, she suggested Covea should pay £500 in 
Ref: DRN97853232compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Mr and Mrs S had experienced as a result  
of having their second policy incorrectly avoided.  
Mrs S doesnt agree  with this outcome and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.  As I 
understand it, she still doesnt  think  Covea should  have avoided  her and Mr Ss first policy.  
And  in any event   she thinks they owe her a great deal more in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  legislation  I need  to take into account when considering the outcome  of this 
complaint is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Misrepresentations)  Act 2012. This 
means when Mrs S took out the first policy with Covea in November  2015  she had to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. And she had the same duty again when 
she renewed this policy  and started a new consumer insurance contract with Covea in 
November 2016.  If Mrs S failed to take reasonable care when she took out these polices and 
Covea can show they wouldnt  have insured her and Mr S if she had taken reasonable care, 
they would  be entitled to avoid both polices (treat them  as if theyd never  existed) and refuse 
any claims under them. This is because  they would have shown Mrs S made what the Act 
calls a qualifying misrepresentation on both occasions. 
Im satisfied Covea were entitled to avoid Mr and Mrs Ss first policy  which started  in 2015. 
This is because I agree  she failed to failed to take reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she stated she hadnt ever been convicted of a crime. Mrs S was 
asked a clear question about  this which she answered no. But shed been convicted of a 
crime in August 2011 and the conviction  wasnt spent when she took out this policy.  I 
appreciate shes  explained this was due to a misunderstanding on her part, in that she 
thought the conviction  was spent. But the Act requires the standard  of care a reasonable 
consumer would take. And I think a reasonable consumer would have taken more care to 
check whether this sort of conviction was spent.
Covea have shown  they wouldnt have provided  the policy if Mrs S had declared the 
conviction. And this means they were  entitled  to avoid  Mr and Mrs Ss first policy. But
I agree  with the investigator that this was a careless, as opposed to a deliberate,  
misrepresentation. This is because I accept Mrs Ss explanation that she thought  the 
conviction was spent and didnt need  to declare it. 
As this was a careless misrepresentation, Covea are technically obliged  to refund the 
premium Mr and Mrs S paid for the policy and remove  any record  of the avoidance  from any 
fraud databases. But I dont think Covea need  to refund the premium, as they paid out 
around £22,000 for claims under this policy, which I think they are entitled to recover from 
Mr and Mrs S. So, I think it is reasonable for them to keep the premium against  this amount. 
I dont think Covea were entitled to avoid the policy Mr and Mrs S took out in November  
2016. This is because  they cant show Mrs S made a qualifying  misrepresentation when 
taking out this policy. She did fail to declare shed had a criminal conviction in 2011. But she 
didnt have to declare  it, as it was spent by this point. And  in any event  Coveas 
acceptance criteria shows a spent  conviction would have had no impact on the terms they 
would have offered  to Mr and Mrs S. 
Ref: DRN97853233So, I think Covea were  wrong to avoid  Mr and Mrs Ss second policy  and refuse their claim 
under it. And Im pleased to see they have now agreed to reinstate this policy. Instead of 
paying anything  further in relation to the claim under it, theyve also offered not to pursue 
Mr and Mrs S to recover what  they paid on the claims  they made under their first policy. 
Mrs S doesnt think this is fair and shes mentioned that she and Mr S would be due further 
payments for the repairs to their property, as well as a great deal more in disturbance  
allowance. But, Im satisfied what Covea has proposed is fair and reasonable. This is 
because I think theyve  paid out considerably more on the two claims under the first policy  
than theyre ever likely  to be obliged to pay on the claim under  the second  policy, following 
the escape of water  in March 2017.  I appreciate  there would have been more due in 
disturbance allowance, but I think  Covea  would have been entitled to hold on paying  
anything further  on this claim until Mr and Mrs S had paid back what  they had received for 
the other two claims. So, I think this makes  Coveas offer not to pursue recovery  of this 
amount, subject to not paying  anything  further  in relation the later claim, fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. 
However, I think Coveas approach in incorrectly avoiding Mr and Mrs Ss second  policy  
caused them  some  unnecessary distress and inconvenience. After  all, they should never 
have had to deal with this issue  and instead  just been told they had to repay  what  theyd got 
on the other claims, before  anything further  could happen on their existing claim. They 
werent and this caused them more  distress and inconvenience than they should  have  
experienced. So, I agree with our investigator  that Covea should pay them  £500  in 
compensation for this. 
In summary,  I dont think Covea needs to pay anything further in respect of Mr and Mrs S 
claim following their escape of water in March 2017,  provided they dont pursue them for 
recovery of what they paid out for their two claims in 2016. And I think Covea should  mark 
the policy Mr and Mrs S took out in November 2016  as reinstated.  And remove  any record  of 
the avoidance of their first policy from fraud registers.  Plus,  I think  Covea should pay Mr and 
Mrs S £500  in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN97853234my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im satisfied Covea Insurance plcs offer not to pursue 
recovery of the amount  they have paid out for claims on the first policy Mr and Mrs S held 
with them  (start date November 2015),  subject  to them not paying  anything further on Mr and 
Mrs Ss claim following  the escape of water at their home in 2017,  is fair and reasonable.
I require Covea Insurance plc to mark their records to show  that the policy Mr and Mrs S 
took out in 2016 wasnt  avoided and provide Mr and Mrs S with a letter confirming this if they 
require it. I also require  Covea Insurance plc to remove any record of the avoidance of       
Mr and Mrs Ss first policy  (starting in November 2015) from any fraud registers. 
In addition, Covea  Insurance plc must pay Mr and Mrs S £500  in compensation for distress  
and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9785323