K820x#14Complaint
Ms M, who is represented by her husband,  complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services  
(UK) Limited (VFS) failed  to handle the end of a hire purchase agreement properly.
Background
In October  2014 Ms M took out hire purchase agreement to fund the acquisition  of a car. The 
agreement was for a period of 42 months with a final payment payable  of £4,102.50. VFS 
has said that the agreement came  to an end on 5 April 2018. 
Ms M called VFS in March to discuss what would  happen  at the end of the agreement and 
she was given an range  of options including handing the car back, refinancing  it, part 
exchanging it, or selling it privately. She was given an approximate  cost of refinancing  it and 
told to call back after the April payment had been made. 
She called back in early  April and apologised that the April payment  hadnt  gone though and 
explained that a close relative had died suddenly. Ms M had recently got married  and VFS 
asked for sight of her marriage certificate.  In late May the certificate was supplied and her 
application for the car to be refinanced was submitted to VFS underwriters but it was 
declined.
On two occasions VFS applied a default to her credit file and it apologised and removed 
these. Ms M retained the car, but no payments were made. Mr M has said that she didnt tell 
VFS to stop collecting her monthly  payments. VFS has said that it was only entitled to collect  
the monthly payments for 42 months and Ms M was obliged to pay the balance if she wished 
to retain  the car. A second application was made  to refinance the car, but this failed. Mr M 
says that the earlier  defaults caused the application  to fail.
VFS rejected Ms Ms complaint and so she brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. He reviewed  the 
evidence and listened to calls and concluded that VFS had acted  sensitively in the light of 
Ms Ms bereavement 
It had clearly explained the options available to her at the outset and it was unfortunate that 
her application  for finance had been  declined. He said that he had seen confidential 
information from VFS about  the refusal to refinance  the car and he was satisfied that the 
decision wasnt based on the erroneous defaults.
Mr M didnt  agree and said his wife had been  the subject of physical threats  and phone  call 
recordings had gone missing. He said he believed the refusal had been based on his wifes 
credit file and the incorrect default information.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms agreement came to an end in April and she had a range of options as to what to do 
next. These  were explained to her and she decided she wanted to keep the car, but couldnt 
afford the final baloon  payment. Regrettably  she missed  the final monthly  payment,  but this 
Ref: DRN94013872was resolved and she applied  for refinance. VFS isnt obliged  to offer finance and it is open 
to it to refuse  an application.
It chose not to do so and I am satisfied that the decision was based on a number of factors  
and not on the erroneous  default marker.  This meant that Ms M had to find an alternative 
solution. She had suffered family bereavement around the time the agreement came  to an 
end and I am satisfied  that VFS acted sensitively and deferred  pursuing the outstanding 
sum. A second application  for finance failed and VFS was entitled to seek  repossession of 
the car. It owned  the car and Ms M hadnt paid the outstanding sum due.
It s worth noting that she entered  into an agreement  which allowed VFS to collect the 42 
monthly payments.  At that point it had no authority to continue  collecting these sums. The 
onus was on Ms M to pay the balance in one lump sum or take up any of the other offers  put 
to her which were contained  in her contract. 
Ms M continued to have  use of the car which still belonged to VFS and didnt  take up any of 
the options once the refinancing was rejected. I can understand why VFS has taken action to 
take back its asset as it is entitled to do. I have seen no evidence of threats  by VFS and the 
calls I have listened to and the notes  I have seen indicate that it has taken a sympathetic 
approach, but understandably has been  seeking payment or return of the car.
In conclusion, I do not consider that VFS has done anything significantly wrong and it 
rectified the default markers on Ms Ms credit file without  delay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject  my decision before 
15 June 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9401387