K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  Plc wont refund a payment  made  on his credit 
card to a secondary ticket  selling website (the Website). 
Background
In June 2020 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to not uphold  the 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached my 
final decision. Tesco has said it has nothing further to add. Mr B has made  some  
observations which  I shall address.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr B points to some  court papers and says that I must uphold  his complaint, or he will take 
the matter further.  I think there are a number of pertinent  points here. This complaint and this 
decision is about Tesco and what  it did and its responsibilities. I repeat my comments  about 
this as stated in my provisional decision.  Importantly  Tesco is not a party  to the court papers 
or even  mentioned in the court papers. The date of the court  papers  and the date of 
compliance with the court  papers are both after the concert occurred (that the tickets  were 
bought for and that Mr B attended). And Mr B bought the tickets some  months  before that. It 
is also of note that those court papers are in reference to an action which  has been 
suspended. And lastly  although I have to consider  the law I have an overarching 
responsibility to decide  what is fair and reasonable in this case. So Im not persuaded by Mr 
Bs arguments here.
Mr B also says, regarding there  being some  confusion  regarding who booked the tickets, 
that he thinks my discussion of this issue is slightly pedantic . I disagree.  Mr B has made 
points on what happened during the ticket buying  process (within  which  was entering his 
card details) and what he says he saw on the website during the whole process. I described 
that there  was evidence  on file showing inconsistencies about what had been said had 
happened. I issued a provisional decision to allow Mr B opportunity  to address that. If I 
hadnt done so that would have been  unfair.  And although Mr B doesnt deny authorising  the 
transaction (or allowing someone  to do so on his behalf) the issue of payment authorisation 
is an important issue generally. Hence fairness and this important issue  led me to address  
this matter.
I do not think Mr B has made  any persuasive  comments on my provisional  decision and 
having considered the matter again  in the round, I see no persuasive  reason to change  my 
position. Consequently, I do not uphold this complaint as I described in my provisional  
decision and below.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  I do not 
uphold this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Ref: DRN98234402Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN98234403Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc wont refund a payment made  on his credit  card to a 
secondary ticket selling  website (the Website). 
background
In April 2018  two tickets  were purchased through the Website  to attend a concert using a Tesco credit 
card. Mr B says he selected specific seats in a specific  row for the concert. But on receiving  the email 
confirmation for his tickets he saw hed received tickets which werent specific  seats but rather 
somewhere in the Upper Tier. He says he contacted the Website  to sort the matter out but was 
unsuccessful with it.
Mr B asked Tesco to help.  He said the Website had breached its contract with him or misrepresented 
to him as he hadnt got what  he opted to buy.
Tesco looked into the matter, but it didnt  think it could help. This was because it didnt think  it could 
do a chargeback because it didnt have a reasonable prospect  of success. It also thought  a Section 
75 claim would also be unsuccessful. It thought neither  would be successful because  there was 
nothing to support Mr Bs position that hed not got the seats he wanted. It also didnt  think there was 
the appropriate  relationship  in place for a Section 75 claim.
Mr B didnt think this was fair, so he brought the complaint to our service. Mr B explained  that when 
the concert happened,  he did go but would never have chosen the seats he got because  the views 
werent as he would have liked.
Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt  think Tesco had acted unfairly  by declining 
Mr Bs request for a refund.  Mr B didnt agree. He said the contract had clearly been breached so he 
should have got his money back  when  he complained. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I am writing this provisional decision because I think there is important arguments to be made  which 
havent been  properly  put to the parties.  So I should make  these parties aware of my position  and 
thus give them both a fair opportunity to respond before  issuing my final decision on the matter. 
This complaint is about  Tesco, as Mr Bs credit card account provider. Its not about the Website, 
which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only considering  
whether Mr B authorised Tesco to debit  the account with the value  of the payment, and whether  it 
should have helped with the dispute with the Website in any other way.
Mr B says he authorised  this transaction for these tickets.  It is also possible that Mr B authorised this 
transaction by allowing  someone  else to do the transaction  on his behalf. Either way, having 
considered what Mr B has said (including  that he made this purchase and paid for the tickets)  and the 
evidence of Tesco Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised and correctly applied  to Mr 
Bs account with Tesco. 
could Tesco challenge  the transaction  through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances,  when a cardholder  has a dispute with a merchant, as Mr B does here, 
Tesco (as the card issuer)  can attempt  a chargeback. Generally  we say its fair for a card issuer  to 
Ref: DRN98234404attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment - if theres  a reasonable prospect of success, for 
example where goods arent received, or it appears that the payment wasnt properly authorised by 
the cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where chargeback has been 
successful. But I dont think Tesco couldve  challenged  the payment  on the basis 
Mr B didnt properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusion Ive already set out.
As far as Mr B is concerned the crux of the complaint is that when going through the purchase 
process, he wanted to buy specific seats but, in the end, only got a generic area of seating. Mr B 
hasnt explained which specific seats he wanted.  But he does provide an example screenshot 
showing the Website would  show specific seats when  purchasing. So he argues that the Website 
must have fabricated  the seating available prior to purchase  and then given him only the Upper Tier.  
Accordingly he believes  the matter is clear that either the contract to purchase tickets was breached 
or misrepresented  to him.
Tescos argument is that there is no evidence  to support Mr Bs position that he selected specific row 
and seats other than what he says. 
To decide this matter  the test I must apply  here is balance  of probabilities or in other words  what do I 
think was more likely to have happened.
Ive seen an email from the Website  (dated June 2018) to Mr B which states  the seller of the tickets to 
Mr B did not specify a row or seat numbers. Mr B argues  that he did select seat and row. Mr B has 
said in his emails to this service recently I paid (the Website) for their service and was clearly misled 
at the point  of purchase and the advertised seating positions I selected on the (Website)  were  
fabricated by (the Website)  (both March  2020).
However I note that in the contact notes (from May 2018) with Tesco  that there is a note made at that 
time when Mr B called it. It says:
Due to attend a concert  in November but does not have any further information than this as 
his wife booked the tickets.
Having considered  the Website it is clearly a secondary ticket selling Website. It is also clear that the 
sellers of the tickets  have  scope for describing their tickets to be sold in differing  manners and that 
they are not obliged to give row and seat numbers but rather encouraged to do so. Clearly  many 
sellers do give seat numbers and so it is easy to understand how Mr B can provide examples of such. 
However the Website has clearly stated that in this case the seller did not specify the seats numbers  
being sold. It is clear the email confirmation only says upper  tier. Mr B hasnt specified which seats 
he booked or provided  evidence to support which  seats  he booked. And from around the time we 
have record of contact  Mr B had with Tesco which indicates  he wasnt the person who booked  the 
tickets, which  is contrary to what he says more recently. And Mr B hadnt provided  anything  
supporting his position other  than saying he had bought specific seats. So I think  Tescos thinking that 
there wasnt a reasonable  prospect of success in raising  a chargeback is correct. So I think it acted 
fairly in not raising  a chargeback.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Bs Tescos credit card. Under section 75, in certain 
circumstances, he has an equal right to claim  against Tesco as he does against the supplier  (the 
Website) if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place. The 
Websites terms and conditions say:
Ref: DRN982344051.2 Ticketing  Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members  who want to buy 
tickets ("Buyers") to find members  who want to sell tickets  ("Sellers"). [Websites name] does not take 
title to the underlying ticket  and the actual  transactions are between  the Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied  by the Website. But that the Website  does provide a 
service. And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website says it:
charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out process  and 
covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform,  guaranteeing tickets and providing 
customer service. 
So in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement  between Mr B, Tesco and the Website, 
albeit not for the direct  provision of the tickets  themselves. Instead, the Website provides a service. 
The service consists  of two main things - the platform and the guarantee.  So I think  the Website is 
responsible for how ticket information (such as venue, date, time, seat location and the asking price) 
is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee,  its responsible for providing replacement 
tickets or a refund  if the seller doesnt  fulfil their obligations around supplying  the tickets.  
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service  provided by the 
Website must have a cash price of more than £100. For two tickets £315 was paid on Mr Bs card. But 
Mr B has helpfully provided copies of the tickets  he received. I can see that the total face value was 
£75.75 for each ticket.  So I think its more likely than not the Websites fee for its service  in this case  
was more than £100. So I do think this case meets the required financial limits to have a claim under 
Section 75.
Lastly, for a successful claim Mr B would need  to show a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by 
the Website. Mr B has repeatedly argued that by not getting the specific seat allocation he wanted the 
contract has been breached  or misrepresented  to him. Mr B has focused all his arguments on this 
point.
But for the same reasons as described earlier Im not persuaded that there was breach or 
misrepresentation here. The Website has said that the tickets purchased did not have specified  seat 
numbers. Its clear seats can be sold without giving seat numbers and Tesco  had evidence that it 
wasnt Mr B who booked the tickets. And Mr B hadnt provided anything supporting his position other 
than saying he had bought specific seats. The confirmation he received  at the time said upper tier 
and that is what he got. Im not persuaded that the Website fabricated seat numbers during the 
sales process only to remove them by the time he received the automated email confirmation. And 
ultimately Mr B accepts  he was able to attend the concert and to have  seats in the upper tier as per 
the email confirmation.
Ive considered the other important facets of this purchase and Im not persuaded  that the contract 
was breached  by the Website or that the contract was misrepresented to him during the sales 
process.
In summary I currently think  that Tesco acted fairly in not raising a chargeback. I also currently think 
that there is the appropriate  relationship for a Section 75 claim, but I do not think  such  a claim  should 
be successful.  I say this because I currently think there was no breach  or misrepresentation of the 
contract. So I dont think I can fairly  require Tesco to refund Mr B. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am currently minded to not uphold  the complaint  against Tesco  
Personal Finance Plc. I now invite  both parties to give me their final thoughts on the matter within  the 
timeline described above.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9823440