K822xcomplaint
Mrs A complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled  a claim made  
against her motor insurance policy.
background 
Mrs A used to insure her car with Advantage. In 2015, she was involved in a minor traffic 
accident when  she drove into the back of a car in front of her. She reported it to Advantage 
at the time, though she didnt make  a claim. Advantage said it hadnt received a claim from 
the third party  and would be in touch  if it heard anything.
Advantage then received a claim from the third partys insurer. Based on the engineers 
report, and the account given by the third party and the initial information Mrs A had given it, 
Advantage decided to settle the claim and paid the third party. However,  it didnt tell Mrs A 
about that at the time.
In 2018, when Mrs A moved insurer, her new insurer found that shed had a fault claim and 
told her about it. This was the first time shed known  about it, and she complained  to 
Advantage. She said it had promised to tell her about any claim at the time, and she hadnt  
done so. She said she had photos  from the time which showed the third partys  car wasnt  
damaged. She said shed  lost the chance to dispute  the claim  and if shed been able to, it 
might not have been recorded as fault against her, and her premium wouldnt have 
increased.
Advantage accepted that it hadnt  told Mrs A about the claim, and it should have done. But it 
said that ultimately that made no difference. The independent engineers  report showed 
there was damage  to the third partys car. And Mrs A accepted  shed driven into the back of 
it. So it was very unlikely that it wouldnt  have  paid the claim, even if shed disputed  it at the 
time. However, it accepted that it should  have discussed it with her, and offered  £60 
compensation. Our investigator thought that should be increased by a further £100. As 
Advantage didnt  accept  that, the case comes to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of Mrs As policy, Advantage is entitled to take over and contest or settle  
any claim made against her at its discretion. Thats  what  it did here,  and its something  it was 
entitled to do.
However, it didnt communicate with Mrs A. It should  have done so  because  she was the 
policy holder, and so it affected her, and because she had relevant evidence  to contribute  to 
the assessment  of the claim.
I agree  with Advantage that if it had spoken  to Mrs A, and considered her evidence  at the 
time, its unlikely the outcome would have  been different. She drove  into the back of the car 
in front,  and although she says thats because she was coming out of a side road at the time, 
it was for her to make sure it was safe for her to join the traffic flow. It would be hard to show  
that a situation  where a driver drove  into the back of the car in front was not the drivers fault. 
If Advantage were  to contest the claim on that basis, theres a chance the third party or their 
Ref: DRN93684252insurer would have  taken  the claim to court and won  which  would have been much  more 
expensive than reaching an early settlement. 
Ive considered Mrs As evidence about  the extent of the damage to the other car. The 
photos shes provided are very poor quality  theyre blurred, and they look to me like photos 
of photos. While I cant see any damage  on them, I dont think the quality of the photos is 
good enough to say that there was no damage  there. And the third party  insurers 
independent engineer report found there  was damage. 
Taking all of that into account,  I think it was reasonable  for Advantage to settle the claim  in 
the way it did, and if Mrs A had been  involved I dont think that would have  made a 
difference to the outcome.
However, Advantage should have discussed the claim with her. The outcome would in all 
likelihood have  been the same  but Mrs A would have understood why at the time, and 
wouldnt have discovered a fault claim  on her record via another insurer  some years  later.  
That caused  her real upset when she did discover it, and I think Advantage should  
compensate her for that. I agree with the adjudicator that a further  £100  is fair in all the 
circumstances. Mrs A says she hasnt cashed  the original £60 cheque  either,  so Advantage 
should re-issue that sum too.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to increase its offer of compensation to a total of 
£160.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9368425