K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 2004 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  in branch.
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a security guard (as evidenced from the credit card 
application form). Mr W has told us he was entitled  to some sick pay should he be unable to 
work and that he would have received at least three  months  redundancy pay. However, Mr 
W has misremembered what job he was doing at the time and the benefits he has 
mentioned relate to another employer. However,  I consider that the benefits  Mr W would 
have received as a security guard would have likely been similar to what  Mr W has told us. 
Mr W has said he broke his leg in 1978 and that it was treated in hospital  and put in plaster  
at the time. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment, critical illness and life.  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mr Ws credit  card 
balance in the event of a successful claim for accident, sickness and unemployment. At the 
time, it cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium would continue  
to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  interest. 
BoS has provided evidence to show that the credit card account closed in December 2006.
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ws representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr W about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr W and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN99837592The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion and Mr Ws representative has provided a response.  
Mr W disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN99837593The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
BoS was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and BoS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
Ref: DRN99837594did Mr W know he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen Mr Ws credit card application form. There is a separate  section for insurance  
products and there is a cross in the box next to PPI to indicate that Mr W had requested  it. 
The box next to another  insurance product has been  left blank to indicate  that Mr W declined 
it. Ive also seen a copy of the Welcome letter that was sent to Mr W, enclosing a copy of the 
policy schedule. The letter thanks Mr W for his application  for the PPI. I consider that Mr W 
would have known  from the wording and layout of the paperwork that he had a choice about 
buying PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr W knew  the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it did provide  advice during this sale. Mr W hasnt commented on whether  he felt 
the sale was advised or not. Looking  at what happened when BoS sold Mr W the PPI, Im 
persuaded that it provided advice.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr W with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr W. It seems  Mr W cant remember clearly what happened and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Ws 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr W would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest BoS considered whether Mr W had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that BoS did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr W given his circumstances.  So Im 
not persuaded BoS advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ws ability to continue to 
meet his credit card repayments would have  been put under strain if he was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
and sick pay benefits he says he would have been entitled to.
-Although Mr W says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
Ref: DRN99837595-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr W. There was 
nothing about  Mr Ws employment or occupation which would have  made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr W has told us about  
breaking his leg when he was about three  years  old. But this doesnt appear to be 
caught by the specific  terms and conditions  on limitations and exclusions.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr Ws 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding  card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr W sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr W was given a very broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr W would have been  told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr W would have taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was.
Im also satisfied Mr W would have realised the policy  wasnt free and its likely  he would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr W 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary Mr 
W might have  been given, I think its more likely than not that he based his decision on the 
things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr W, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr W. Im not persuaded that BoS gave Mr W all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN99837596-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr W? To what extent  did Mr W suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr W would have  
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded that BoS took the steps  it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, Mr 
W would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr W says he would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
Ref: DRN99837597As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr W ought reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI. But, I accept that BoS didnt make clear the on-going cost 
information. So while Mr W didnt know some things,  the ultimate position in the event of a 
successful claim  was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr W 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do. 
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr W pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr W says he had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition. I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because Mr W says he broke his 
leg when he was three years old and received  treatment for it at the time. He hasnt  
mentioned the treatment  not being successful or continuing to suffer health issues in relation 
to his leg. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest that he would have been caught by 
any of the other significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some  good reasons to take the 
policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr W 
from taking out the policy,  Mr W, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  job which  in the insurers view he might reasonably be qualified  for, it might 
have played into his thinking  about  what he would have done.  And I accept it may have 
Ref: DRN99837598given him pause  for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly concerned 
given that if Mr W was unable (through disability)  to carry on his own occupation the chances 
that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr W would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr W would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude BoS should pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr W thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
Ref: DRN99837599act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2004 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr W and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9983759