K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society denied him access  to his money  in his
savings account.  Mr Ms daughter, Ms M, is helping him to bring his complaint.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated
January 2019.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I wont  
repeat that information here.  
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that we could deal with Mr Ms complaint that 
Nationwide denied him access to his money. I said that Mr M is entitled  to access  his money,  
subject to the terms and conditions of his account with Nationwide.  But where Nationwide 
has concerns about security,  its entitled  to make  enquires. I said that its enquiries went
too far but that didnt  cause Mr M any loss, distress and inconvenience.
Ms M didnt agree that Nationwide hadnt caused  any loss, distress or inconvenience. She 
said that her main concerns were the £15 she paid for an unnecessary letter  from Mr Ms 
doctor, her embarrassment  and Mr Ms lack of access to his money.  She said that 
Nationwide had treated her like a criminal.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Ms Ms comments after my provisional decision, I asked Nationwide  about  the 
letter from the doctor. Its notes suggest that Ms M mentioned the onset of dementia.  In the 
circumstances that arose here, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide  to ask for a 
letter from Mr Ms doctor. So, I dont think its appropriate to ask Nationwide  to pay the cost 
of that. 
I do appreciate how Ms M felt about Nationwides enquiries. As I said in my provisional  
decision, I can look at how Nationwides actions affected Mr M. Nationwide was entitled to 
make enquires. Im not persuaded that Mr M was unduly distressed or inconvenienced by 
those enquires. Mr Ms accounts are not blocked and the third party mandate is still in place. 
Mr M can still access his money
Having looked  at everything again, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions  I reached 
in my provision decision. So, whilst Nationwide made errors here, I dont think  it caused 
Mr M any loss, distress  or inconvenience. I remain of the view that its not appropriate to 
direct Nationwide to pay Mr M any compensation.
Ref: DRN98876682my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98876683complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society denied him access  to his money  in his 
savings account.  Mr Ms daughter, Ms M, is helping him to bring his complaint.
background
Mr M has a current account and a savings  account  with Nationwide. In March  2018, Mr M 
gave Ms M authority to make regular withdrawals from his savings account. Nationwide 
became concerned about the pattern and quantity of cash  withdrawals.  Between 8 March
2018 and 7 April 2018, there were cash withdrawals of £5,500  from Mr Ms savings  account.
Nationwide put a temporary restriction  on Mr Ms savings  account and asked for evidence 
to confirm what the money  is being  withdrawn for. Nationwide  says it told Ms M that 
shed need a power of attorney or an order from the court of protection  in order  to make 
withdrawals from Mr Ms savings account.
Our investigator didnt think that Nationwide had acted unreasonably. She said that 
Nationwide acted fairly in asking for more information about some of the withdrawals and 
that it had released money to Mr M to allow him to pay his bills.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator. Ms M responded on his behalf  and said that she 
wanted an apology  for the embarrassment  shed been caused and reimbursement of a £15 
fee for a letter from Mr Ms doctor that said that he doesnt have dementia.
Nationwide has since told us that Mr Ms accounts  are not blocked,  the third party  mandate  
is still in force and that Mr M is able to access his money.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  that set out what we can and cant consider, we can only look into
complaints brought to us by or on behalf  of an eligible complainant. Mr M is the eligible 
complainant here. Ms M isnt an eligible complainant for the purpose of our rules.  So, in this 
decision Im dealing with Mr Ms complaint that Nationwide denied him access  to his money.
The starting point  is that Mr M is entitled to access his money, subject to the terms and 
conditions of his account with Nationwide. But where  Nationwide has concerns about  
security, its entitled to make enquires.  Thats what it did here but I think its enquiries  went 
too far.
In its letter to Mr M in April 2018, Nationwide told him that it was concerned that withdrawals 
from his savings account didnt fit his normal pattern. It said that it had placed  a temporary 
restriction on the account, which would remain in place until it received evidence to 
confirm what the money is being  withdrawn for. For example, a care invoice.
I think Nationwide  didnt  treat Mr M unfairly  in asking him about withdrawals but its not 
entitled to know what hes spending his money on. Nationwide simply needs to be 
satisfied that Mr M has authorised the transactions.
Ref: DRN98876684Nationwide says that it told Ms M that shed need  a power of attorney or an order  from the 
court of protection in order to access Mr Ms account. That wasnt  in fact the case.
While I think Nationwide made errors  here, I dont think it caused Mr M any loss, distress  or 
inconvenience. Nationwide has told us that Mr Ms accounts are not blocked  and that the 
third party mandate  is still in place. Mr M can still access his money as he wishes. So I dont 
think that its appropriate  to direct  Nationwide to pay Mr M any compensation.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  intend to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN9887668