K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance, (MPPI)  policy taken out 
in 1995. Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc, (BOS), mis-sold them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs P say that BOS didnt  make it sufficiently clear that the MPPI was optional.  
However, I think BOS did make it clear  to Mr and Mrs P that they didnt have to take the 
policy, but that they chose to anyway. I say this because Ive seen Mr and Mrs Ps 
signed mortgage application  form. On this is a section dealing  with MPPI. And I can see 
that this has been  completed to show that, at that stage, they declined  to take it. I dont 
know why Mr and Mrs P changed their minds  about this but Ive also seen their signed 
application form for MPPI dated  some  five months later.  Because of the time that has 
passed I can understand why Mr and Mrs P dont  remember this. 
BOS recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs P, so it had to check  that the MPPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. I say this because:
oThey were both eligible for the policy;
oThey werent affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  cover,  
such as those affecting someone who had a pre-existing medical condition;
oMr and Mrs P had some savings and were  both entitled to some sick pay from their 
respective employers. They would also have been entitled to some redundancy pay 
had they been made  redundant. However,  following a successful claim, the MPPI 
would have paid out £250 a month  for up to 12 months to either or both of them had 
one or other, or both of them, been unable to work because of accident, sickness  or 
involuntary unemployment. These payments  would have  been made in addition to 
any work or state  benefits. So I think the policy would have been of use to them;
oMr and Mrs Ps earnings were broadly similar, so I find that it was reasonable for the 
MPPI to have covered them both and the total monthly benefit of £500 split equally 
between them;
oAt about  £35 a month the insurance  was competitively priced by reference to other  
similar policies  available in the market at the time. And Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that Mr and Mrs P couldnt  afford it. In any event,  had they later felt that they didnt  
want the policy or the premiums were too expensive,  because it was paid for monthly 
they could have cancelled the policy at any time without further cost;
Ref: DRN97495882The MPPI application, to which Ive referred  above, set out the monthly  premiums  and 
benefits. Its possible the other information BOS gave Mr and Mrs P about the MPPI 
wasnt as clear  as it should have been so that they could make an informed  decision  
whether to take it or not. (For instance they still had to continue  paying the premiums 
during a claim.) But, as Ive explained,  I think that it was a suitable  recommendation for 
them and they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. This 
means that I think its unlikely that clearer information would have put them off taking 
out the MPPI. I think its likely they would have  decided it provided valuable cover  at a 
reasonable cost. I say this particularly bearing in mind the serious consequences that 
could have arisen if they hadnt  been able to make their monthly mortgage repayments.
This means BOS  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs P.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs P has said - including what  they have said about 
not claiming when  they were made redundant. And that the MPPI was sold by someone in 
the estate agents office rather than BOS itself.  But these points dont change my decision.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs P because:  
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because BOS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs P.
But Bank of Scotland does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9749588