K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that a car she has on finance  with Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) is not of satisfactory quality.
background
Miss W took receipt of a new car in September 2017. She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. She returned it to the dealership on several occasions in 
the ensuing months  as she said it was stalling and not driving properly. But the dealership 
couldnt find fault until April 2018  when they replaced the clutch. They  returned  the car to her 
in may but Miss W still had problems: she said the car was jumping. The dealership said it 
would need a software upgrade that wasnt available at the time and didnt become available 
until July. Miss W asked  to reject the car in May and again  in July but VWFS wouldnt allow  
her to.
They said there was no proof of a fault in April and the dealership had merely  change the 
clutch as a goodwill  gesture. 
So Miss W referred her complaint to this service.  An independent  inspection  was organised 
and the third party engineer agreed  that there  was a fault with the car and that there was 
juddering between gear changes that would need attention. So our adjudicator  supported 
Miss Ws complaint. She wasnt  persuaded that the clutch change had been completed as a 
goodwill gesture. She noted that it cost more than £700 and she didnt think the dealership 
would agree to this without there  being  a fault and she also noted that their notes had 
explained they were not happy with how it felt. She didnt feel it was unreasonable for 
Miss W to want to reject the car when a further problem came to light and she was 
persuaded by the independent engineers report that a further fault did exist.
So it was the adjudicators  opinion  that Miss W should be allowed to reject the car and that 
the finance agreement should  be terminated.  She considered the mileage Miss W had 
completed and compared  it to average mileage. She thought  it was clear that Miss W had 
had about three and a half months  use from the car and she therefore suggested that VWFS 
should retain three and a half monthly instalments made towards the finance  agreement but 
refund the rest and add 8% simple interest. She also thought the deposit should be returned 
to Miss W.
But VWFS disagreed. They insisted there was no fault found with the car and the clutch was 
replaced as a gesture of goodwill. They said there was a software upgrade  available  to 
prevent the juddering and it would  only be fair to allow  them to apply it. So they asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN92672142Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Miss W acquired  her car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then VWFS are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
Miss W returned  her car to the dealership on several occasions in the first few months  of 
ownership. Whilst they say there wasnt a fault and the eventual  clutch replacement  was a 
goodwill gesture, I am not persuaded by their argument.
I think a dealership would be unwilling to offer an expensive repair  if the repair was 
unnecessary and the contact notes detailed in the background  information,  suggest there 
was some recognition  of a fault. And I think the evidence suggests this was a fault that had 
been there from the start;  as Miss W had been complaining  of it regularly, and from the 
outset.
Relevant legislation does not give a business  one chance to repair each  separate fault that 
may occur. Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers to the vehicle as 
a whole not each separate component. Indeed the more separate faults - the more  likely it is 
the vehicle isnt of satisfactory quality.
So Im persuaded  that the subsequent problem, that VWFS  accept requires a software  
upgrade to rectify,  is an additional fault and Im supported  in this view by the comments of 
the independent engineer who said he:
did recognise the presence of hesitancy on road test that (was ) engine  related and he 
recommends further investigation to establish and rectify the cause.
And because VWFS  have  already had their opportunity to affect a repair and the car has 
developed another fault they should  allow Miss W to reject the car.
Miss W hasnt completed much mileage  in the car. Shed only driven  3,768  miles when  the 
independent engineer looked at it in January, 15 months into the agreement.  I agree  with the 
adjudicator that in line with average mileage  shes had about three and a half months usage 
and thats all it would be fair for VWFS to receive  towards the finance agreement. In line with 
this services usual approach Ill also be asking them to refund Miss Ws deposit.
Ref: DRN92672143my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I uphold this complaint  and tell Volkswagen Financial Services  
(UK) Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no expense to Miss W
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest from the time of payment  to the date 
of settlement
refund  all monthly finance instalments  and add 8% simple  interest  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. VWFS can, however; retain three  and a half 
instalments
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ws credit file in relation to 
this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9267214