K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1999.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs S owed on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs S couldnt  work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs S that the policy was optional and get her consent before  
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Ive been given a copy of the application  form 
completed by Mrs S at the time of the sale and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. 
Mrs S has signed the section to confirm she wanted  the cover  - if she didnt want  to take out 
the PPI she could have left the section blank. And she has signed the overall application 
form which suggests it reflected what she wanted.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs S 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to
Mrs S. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make  
sure it gave Mrs S clear  enough information about the policy  to enable  her to decide  for 
herself if she should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs S 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  she was 
already aware.  And I think it could have provided her with a useful benefit, notwithstanding  
her employee benefits and other  means.
Ref: DRN97486412Mrs S has said she didnt  need the policy  as her husband could have helped meet the 
repayments. Whilst I appreciate that her husband  would  have  wanted  to help, support from 
others cant be guaranteed as their circumstances  can also change,  meaning  they are 
unable to provide  such  financial assistance.  So this point doesnt  alter my decision.
So when taking  everything into account,  I dont  think Mrs S has lost out by anything  FICL 
may have  done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9748641