K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about the information Ageas Insurance  Limited recorded when she made 
an enquiry under her home insurance policy. She says the information  recorded is affecting 
her ability to obtain insurance  elsewhere.
background
Mrs B had a buildings and contents  home  insurance  policy  with Ageas,  with whom she been 
insured for many years.  The policy renews each year on 1 October. 
On 23 May 2017 Mrs B contacted  Ageas  after a painter attending her property discovered 
damage to the bottom of her garage door. She wanted to ask whether her garage door was 
covered by her policy. During that telephone  call Mrs Bs painter told Ageas  that the bottom 
of the garage  door was rotten and required replacement. When asked what the cause of the 
damage was the painter said it was most likely due to a flood in around 2009.
In December 2009 a mains  water pipe burst in the vicinity of Mrs Bs property causing  
flooding. Due to heavy  snow  the water mains  couldnt be shut off. And, as the water wasnt  
able to soak into the ground, it travelled through gardens before reaching  and entering  
Mrs Bs property   after which it continued to travel  to other properties.  
As Mrs Bs policy excluded damage caused  by rot, and because the flood had occurred 
before the policy inception  date,  Ageas declined to cover the damage to her garage  door.  
However, it recorded the enquiry that Mrs B had made on its database.
On 12 September  2018 Mrs B telephoned  Ageas  as she hadnt received a renewal quote for 
her buildings and contents insurer. When she spoke with Ageas she was told a premium of 
£33.85 would debit her account on 1 October  2018 and, thereafter, £33.83 would debit each 
month for 11 months.
Mrs B thought the premium shed been  quoted  for her new policy was high compared to the 
previous year. So, on 14 September  2018, she used a search  comparison website to 
compare the insurance  market. She contacted an insurer  that was advertising a more  
favourable quote.  However, when she spoke to that insurer directly  they told her they werent 
able to insure her as information showed shed had a flood in May 2017. 
Mrs B stated  that she hadnt suffered any flood   other than the burst water pipe in 2009.  But 
she said she was told by this insurer that no insurer would insure her property due to the 
information Ageas had recorded on its database.
Later that day Mrs B contacted Ageas to raise  her concerns about what  had been recorded.  
She said she wasnt able to obtain insurance elsewhere and asked Ageas to change  the 
wording it had used.  But she said Ageas  told her it wasnt able to change notes on its 
database.
Mrs B felt she had no choice but to renew her insurance with Ageas for another year despite 
her concerns  about the information  it had recorded. However, she wanted it to remove  the 
information she felt it had wrongly recorded so she could obtain cheaper insurance  
elsewhere in the future. As it wouldnt do that she referred her complaint to our service.
Ref: DRN92770482Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt  uphold this complaint. They 
werent persuaded that Ageas had incorrectly recorded information about  the flood in 2009 
on its database. They also thought Ageas was right to note that Mrs B had enquired about 
damage to her garage doors in May 2017.  So, they didnt think Ageas had done  anything 
wrong. But Mrs B disagreed and asked an ombudsman to determine this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mrs B experienced here.  I can appreciate  she was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. And I can see its taken up a lot of 
her time to bring this complaint to our service.
My role is to assess whether I think Ageas made  a mistake, or treated  Mrs B unfairly, such  
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully  about  everything she and 
Ageas have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Mrs B doesnt dispute that she contacted Ageas  in May 2017 to enquire  whether the damage  
sustained to her garage door would be covered under her home insurance policy.  During 
that call Ageas spoke  to Mrs Bs painter who explained they thought the cause  of the 
damage was due to the burst water pipe in 2009.
Ageas decision  to decline to cover  that damage is not the subject of disagreement by Mrs B. 
I say this because,  based on what Ive seen, she hasnt told our service she thinks that 
decision was unfair or wrong. 
As a result of the call Mrs B made to Ageas in May 2017, it recorded the information she had 
provided on its database, which is something  Id expect  an insurer to do for fraud  prevention 
purposes. I can see that the terms of Mrs Bs insurance policy set out how Ageas  records  
and shares information  with other  organisations. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that its 
breached those terms in recording information provided by Mrs B on its database.
Here, Ageas recorded the information  about the damage to Mrs Bs garage door as having  
been caused by flood.  It said it chose  to record it in this way because  the water  entered  
Mrs Bs property  at ground  level from an external source outside of the boundaries of her 
home. And it cited the European Union (EU) floods directive, which  defines  a flood as a 
covering by water of land not normally covered by water.  
As there was water ingress  to Mrs Bs property from an external ground level source  I think 
Ageas decision  to record the incident as a flood  was reasonable. So, I cant  fairly find Ageas 
recorded the damage under the wrong peril here.
Because Ageas didnt approve  a claim or make payment in respect of the damage to Mrs Bs 
garage door it recorded what  it had been told as an enquiry only.  Ive seen evidence  of how 
Ageas recorded  this enquiry. So, I can see this isnt showing as a declined claim.
As our investigator explained in their view, something such as a flood is a risk to people's  
homes, which can change  the amount of risk an insurer may feel a property is worth. So, 
Ref: DRN92770483while Mrs B was only making an enquiry, I think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to 
record that in the circumstances.  And I cant ask it to remove  it, because its a true reflection 
of what happened.
 
Ageas told Mrs B it doesnt  treat enquiries  as claims. But, as the information is shared with 
other insurers, it wasnt able to say how other insurers would interpret or use the information  
it had recorded  on its database. I appreciate that might be unhelpful  to Mrs B but it wouldnt 
be fair to hold Ageas responsible for how other insurers view an enquiry and value the risk of 
a property.
Mrs B asked Ageas to change the information  it had recorded but it said it wasnt  able to. 
She says this is prejudicing her ability to obtain  insurance cover elsewhere. So, Ive thought 
about whether  Ageas  took any steps  to help Mrs B here.
I case see that, in light of the difficulties Mrs B was experiencing in obtaining insurance 
elsewhere, Ageas contacted the organisation that operates the Claims Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE), which is a database used by insurers to share details of reported claims.  It 
requested that the CUE reflect that only an enquiry was made by Mrs B in May 2017  and 
that no claim was made. Ageas also told Mrs B that, if she experienced problems in taking 
out an insurance policy with another provider,  it was happy to confirm with that insurer  
directly that Mrs B made an enquiry only. 
Overall, I think the steps Ageas took here show it was trying to assist  Mrs B. And, as Im not 
persuaded it recorded information it wasnt entitled  or required  to document Im not going to 
ask it to do anymore.  
I realise Mrs B will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings  to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Ageas informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant  help 
Mrs B any further with this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Julie Robertson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9277048