K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out an MPPI policy in 2010. He paid for the policy on a month-by-month  basis.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S complaint because:
I think Mr S knew he had a choice and chose to buy MPPI.
Mr S took out his mortgage in 2007.  Bank of Scotland says he bought a MPPI policy 
at the same  time but cancelled  it within 30 days.  Mr S says this isnt right. But 
Bank of Scotland has sent us screenshots of its internal records,  which  show  Mr S 
agreed to buy MPPI on 18 December  2007  and cancelled it on 29 December 2007. 
So on balance, I think thats  what happened.
Mr S bought MPPI again  in 2010.  He says he thought  he had to have MPPI to get the 
mortgage. But he already had his mortgage and knew  he could cancel MPPI. So I 
think he knew it was optional.
Bank of Scotland recommended Mr S buy MPPI, and it seems  to have been right for 
him.
Mr S was eligible for the policy   he was employed and in good  health so he wouldnt 
have been affected by any exclusions or limitations which might materially  affect  a 
self-employed consumer  or someone  who had a pre-existing  medical  condition.
Mr S says he cant be sure but he thinks he would  have received full pay for up to six 
months if he was off work sick. So hed have had a significant drop in income if he 
was off work  for more than six months  though possibly sooner, depending on his 
actual sick pay. The MPPI  policy would have  paid out on top of any sick pay and it 
would have done so for up to 12 months.  It also provided unemployment cover. Mr S 
told us he didnt have  any savings. So I think he would have found it difficult to pay 
his mortgage if hed been unable to work.  Given the serious consequences of 
defaulting on a debt secured on his home, I think the policy provided Mr S with 
valuable cover.
Ref: DRN99852682I dont know if or how Bank  of Scotland explained how much the policy cost. Its 
possible it could have  explained it better  than it did. But even if it had, I think  Mr S 
would still have  bought it. I say this because it cost £13.09 per month and, as Ive 
explained above, provided  him with valuable cover.
Bank of Scotland also had to tell Mr S about  the policy in a way that was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that he could make  an informed decision about whether  or not 
to buy it. 
I dont know what information was provided. Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt 
point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But, above, Ive explained why I 
think the policy was suitable for Mr S. So I dont think he would have acted differently 
if hed known more  about the policys significant exclusions and limitations.
Mr S was briefly unemployed and made a successful claim on the policy.  He said
he didnt realise  hed have to continue  paying the premiums during the claim period. 
But this is usually what happens with MPPI  so I dont think  its an unusual  or 
onerous term. And I dont  think  Mr S would have been put off if hed known this when 
he bought the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr S comments. But they dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9985268