K821x#15complaint
Ms M complained because Elderbridge  Limited delayed in removing its legal charge when 
she sold her property and paid off what she owed. 
Elderbridge also failed to provide her solicitor  with a Deed of Release, which Ms M said 
meant she couldnt pay her solicitor  and estate agent.
background
Ms M had a second  charge  mortgage  with Elderbridge.  When she planned to sell the 
property, house  prices where she lived had fallen, so the sale wouldnt pay off the total 
amount she owed. 
In May 2018, Ms M obtained Elderbridges written  agreement  that it would accept a reduced  
amount, £1.025.09, when she sold her property. Elderbridge said it would then instruct 
release of its charge on the property.  It was agreed that Ms M would  carry on paying off the 
shortfall at £252.91  a month until the account  was fully repaid.
Ms M sold her property  and her solicitor sent £1,025.09 to Elderbridge on 8 May. At that 
point Elderbridge should have instructed its solicitors to remove  its legal charge. But it didnt.
Over the coming  months, Ms M and her solicitors chased Elderbridge  many  times by letter 
and by phone. They needed Elderbridge  to provide  an executed  Deed of Release or 
receipted Charge  Deed.  Without this, Ms M couldnt pay her solicitor or estate  agent.  This 
went on for many months and Ms M complained.  
In its final response dated 7 December, Elderbridge said that although it had had the money  
on 8 May,  it hadnt instructed its solicitors  to remove the charge until 25 August.  Elderbridge  
said it was sorry there  had been  a delay, but it was out of its control because it had to wait 
for its solicitors to remove  the charge with the Land  Registry. Elderbridge said it had 
contacted its solicitors who had said the charge had been removed from Ms Ms property. It 
said we have now escalated the execution of the Deed  of Release and this will be issued to 
your solicitors as soon as possible.  The lender accepted that it hadnt  replied  to letters, and 
it hadnt been possible for Ms Ms solicitors  to get through  by phone,  and it paid Ms M £250 
compensation.
But Ms Ms solicitors still didnt receive the Deed of Release. In mid-February  2019,  she 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator looked at what  had happened. He said he found it incomprehensible  that 
communication between  Elderbridge and its solicitors had caused such  a delay in providing 
a straightforward document that had been requested in May 2018. He noted that 
Elderbridges solicitors had phoned  Elderbridge  in November  2018 and had said the legal 
charge had been removed  but Elderbridge  hadnt followed up the promised confirmation  
email which  its solicitors  said theyd send. And by mid-April 2019, Ms M and her solicitors 
still hadnt received  the Deed of Release.  The adjudicator obtained a copy  of the Registry of 
Deeds confirmation  that Elderbridges  charge had been surrendered  and released on 
8 November 2018, and forwarded  it to Ms M. He considered that as well as the £250 already 
paid, Elderbridge should pay Ms M a further £100  for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her.
Ref: DRN99039942Elderbridge refused. It said that Ms Ms solicitor hadnt sent Elderbridge  a Deed of Release 
for Elderbridge to complete.  So it said the further delays hadnt been Elderbridges fault and 
it thought that the £250 it had already  paid Ms M was sufficient.
Ms Ms solicitors confirmed that the standard practice  was for a Deed of Release to be sent 
by the lender to the vendors solicitor.  The solicitors  said theyd sent multiple  reminders and 
it couldnt understand why Elderbridge hadnt  notified them  about  the release of the charge.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Elderbridge  provided very poor service  to Ms M. She paid Elderbridge  the 
agreed amount  on 8 May 2018, and she didnt receive the official confirmation that the legal 
charge had been released until our adjudicator obtained it from Elderbridge  in late 
April 2019. 
Thats despite the fact that Ms M and her solicitors chased Elderbridge repeatedly,  by letter  
and by phone. Elderbridge often didnt reply  to letters and it also wasnt always  possible to 
get through to Elderbridge  by phone, which was frustrating for Ms M. 
Nor did these letters  and calls spur Elderbridge on to action the release of the legal charge - 
it didnt do anything as a result of the chasing, and only sent the instruction to its solicitors in 
late August. I consider  it would have been  reasonable to expect the lender to prioritise  
getting things  sorted  for Ms M, once it realised its mistakes, but it didnt do so.
And even  when Elderbridges solicitors did release the charge with the Land Registry  on 8 
November, it still didnt  send adequate  confirmation promptly to Ms M or her solicitor. I note 
that the final response letter a month  later said the charge  had been  released and that the 
Deed of Release would be issued  but it wasnt. So there  were  multiple failings  by 
Elderbridge.
Im not persuaded by Elderbridges  response  to the adjudicators  view,  which  said that 
Ms Ms solicitors hadnt sent it a Deed  of Release to complete, so the further delays werent 
Elderbridges fault. If Elderbridge really had needed a blank form from Ms Ms solicitor before 
it could complete and return  it, I find it astonishing  that Elderbridge didnt say this in 
response to any of the chase-up letters over almost  a year. And Elderbridges final response  
says nothing of the kind.  Instead  it said, as Ive quoted above, that it had escalated  the 
execution of the Deed of Release and it would be sent to Ms Ms solicitor as soon  as 
possible. Theres nothing  here about needing any more from Ms Ms solicitor  before it could 
do so.
Ive also borne in mind  that, as far as I can see, Elderbridge never did send the relevant 
documentation to Ms M or her solicitor.  They only received it via our adjudicator, nearly  a 
year after Ms M paid off the agreed  sum.  Elderbridges own final response letter  said a Deed 
of Release could take 28 days.  This extreme delay caused considerable frustration to Ms M. 
Shes said that she lives in a small place  and personally knows  both her estate agent and 
solicitor, whom she couldnt pay because of Elderbridges delays. Regarding the estate  
agent fees, its normal for these to be paid by the solicitor at the time when the funds are 
dispersed from the sale. So Im not persuaded that the estate agent fees would have been a 
key factor.  But I consider that Elderbridges extreme delays did cause Ms M considerable 
Ref: DRN99039943frustration and inconvenience. So I find that a fair and reasonable total for Elderbridge to pay 
Ms M for her distress and inconvenience would be £350. Elderbridge has paid £250,  so that 
leaves £100 still to pay.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order  Elderbridge Limited to pay Ms M 
a total of £350 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience its delays caused her. 
Elderbridge has already  paid £250,  leaving a further  £100 still to pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9903994