K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs J say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them the PPI.
Background
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in 1998. Even though  this was a joint 
mortgage, only Mr J was insured under the policy for accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
Following a six month free period, they paid a monthly amount for the cover. If Mr J had 
made a successful claim, the policy would have  paid out the repayment benefit for up to 12 
months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
B&B had to make  it clear that the policy was optional and Mr and Mrs J had to agree  to take 
it out. Mr and Mrs J have  said they didnt want the policy and that it was added to their 
mortgage account without their knowledge.  
Ive been given a copy of the mortgage  application  form which was completed at the time 
and this includes a section about PPI. In this section  there are options to tick in order to 
either accept  or decline to take out the cover. If accepting  the cover, there were options to 
choose the level of cover required.  On Mr and Mrs Js form I can see that the option  to 
decline cover had been ticked but this was crossed out and the option for illness, injury & 
unemployment has been marked. The form also includes information about  the amount  of 
monthly cover that was required from the policy. Mr and Mrs J have both signed the form 
which suggests they agreed with everything  that had been entered.
Mr and Mrs J have said that it was never  their intention to take out the policy  and this is why 
there was a tick in the box to decline the cover.  They  say the changes  made to the form 
were done  without their authorisation. Ive considered their comments  carefully  but I dont 
have any other evidence which suggests  this change to the form was made  without their 
agreement. I say this because  B&B has also provided a copy  of the mortgage offer which 
was sent to Mr and Mrs J after their application  had been accepted. This document  refers to 
a PPI policy being taken out for Mr J and details  the monthly premium  applicable following 
the six month free period. It also confirms that their total monthly  payment  would  be altered 
to include this sum. As this document was providing  details of the conditions under which 
B&B were  prepared to offer a mortgage to Mr and Mrs J, I would have expected them  to 
have read through this paperwork.  And if they hadnt  agreed  to take out the PPI, I think  they 
would have questioned this with B&B at this time, or when their repayments increased six 
months later after the free period.
Ref: DRN95429312So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more  likely that B&B made it 
clear that the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs J agreed to take it out, knowing that they 
could refuse  it if they didnt want it.
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs J so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure they got the information they needed to decide if it was 
right for them. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Js circumstances at the time (as the only insured 
person) it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information about the PPI would  have put them off 
taking out the cover.
This means,  when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think  the policy was mis-sold  
and therefore  B&B do not have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9542931