K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about their home insurer  U K Insurance  Limited (UKI), they 
think it failed them during a recent vandalism claim.
background
Whilst Mr and Mrs B were away from home  their house was vandalised.  They  contacted 
UKI on 23 January 2019 to claim for three damaged  windows. UKI contacted its agent  that 
deals with window repairs and it called  Mr B the same day. An appointment was made  for 
29 January 2019.
On 29 January the agent arrived at Mr and Mrs Bs home intending on doing a pre-work 
survey. Mr and Mrs B were under  the impression he was there to do work.  The agent 
completed the survey  but told Mr and Mrs B theyd  now have to wait for that to be shared 
with UKI and authorisation for works  given,  thered  also likely be a lead time for ordering 
glass. On 30 January Mr and Mrs B were  told the work was booked for 18 February 2019. 
They were  completely displeased.
Mr B explained  how cold the house was, how unsuitable the situation  was given Mrs B is 
disabled and they often have young  grandchildren to visit. UKI said the repair  couldnt be 
done any earlier but it could settle  in cash so Mr and Mrs B could use their own trader.
Based on values provided by its agent  UKI offered Mr and Mrs B £1,427. They  accepted 
the offer and made some  tentative arrangements, verbally with a contractor.  The next day 
an issue arose as UKI had sought  to deduct an excess but Mr and Mrs B had paid the 
excess already. Whilst this was being  resolved UKI noted the figure it had offered  was 
wrong, it said the correct  figure was around  £800.
Mr B was very unhappy  about the change in heart. He wanted to understand why this had 
happened but felt it was likely to do with the agent no longer being given the work. He 
spoke to a manager whom  he felt was rude and insulting to him, suggesting  he was trying  
to benefit from the claim. When UKI wouldnt  honour  the original offer Mr B agreed  for UKIs 
agent to do the work.
On 1 February 2019 UKI confirmed  that part of the work, to the upstairs windows, could be 
completed on 11 February (there was no lead time for these  windows). The agent attended 
on 11 February but caused  damage to a curtain  rail, and Mr and Mrs B werent  happy  with 
the work.  Further problems occurred on 18 February 2019. The glass pane  for the 
downstairs window was left on site but work wasnt completed.
On 21 February 2019 UKI paid Mr B so he could complete the work. UKI paid £1,350  which 
it said was the value of Mr Bs estimate  for work,  £150 so Mr B could buy materials  for 
some work hed said hed undertake himself and £59.03 to fix the curtain rail, a total of 
£1,559.14.
Mr B then contacted UKI on 25 February  2019. He said the pane that had been left for 
fitting was damaged. UKI paid Mr B £185.24 so he could replace it. Mr B and his trader 
completed the work in March 2018.
Later Mr B asked UKI to pay him £370 which he said was the increased cost of utilities 
which hed incurred during the period the windows had been damaged. UKI felt that was too 
high but accepted there may have been  some  extra cost.  It paid him £132.
Ref: DRN90802412UKI then reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  It noted that on 11 February 2018 it had 
offered £100 compensation  to Mr and Mrs B for the way Mr B had been spoken to and the 
low temperatures theyd been living with. UKI felt it should increase  that to £300 to deal with 
the distress and inconvenience  which it accepted it had caused  during the claim as a whole. 
Mr and Mrs B felt this was still insufficient,  given what theyd been through,  the costs  theyd 
incurred and the excess theyd paid.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with her findings  and set out further detail as to what theyd 
been through  from feeling  insulted  to Mr B having to undertake work himself.  The matter 
was passed to me for a decision to be made.  I asked Mr and Mrs B what proof they had of 
costs theyd incurred.  They  said they were no longer sure but would check  their documents. 
No further evidence was received. 
The complaint came to me for decision and, having reviewed it I didnt feel it should be 
upheld. But I wanted to share  my view on matters, including  my understanding  of the 
complaint history,  with both parties  before I made  a final decision,  so I issued a provisional 
decision to which both parties have now responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
UKI has accepted  that the service it provided on this occasion was below par. But in order  
for me to make UKI pay more compensation, than the £300 already offered, I have to be 
satisfied that its service was so poor an additional  sum of compensation is warranted. Im 
not persuaded that is the case  here.
UKI should have  been clearer with Mr and Mrs B at the outset as to what they could expect 
to happen. It should  have  been made clear to them that there would have to be an 
assessment visit first before they could reasonably expect any work to take place. It also 
isnt unusual for replacement glass to need  a lead time, so I think UKI could have 
forewarned them this might be a possibility too. So I do agree the service was poor.
It is also evident that Mr B was spoken to inappropriately  during calls he had with UKI on 
30 January 2019.  And I see UKI accepts that is the case.
The error with the settlement figure which led to those conversations on 30 January came 
from a new staff member who hadnt  understood the insurance claim situation.  I accept that 
it was frustrating to be told the first figure  was incorrect and what UKI would actually pay 
was much less. More care should have been taken by UKIs  agent which  was responsible  
for its staff. But the error was realised  before  Mr and Mrs B were caused financial loss 
because of it and UKI quickly  reverted  to offering its services instead. So it dealt with the 
situation, as it arose, appropriately at that time.
I dont doubt, as I said above,  that the situation was frustrating for Mr and Mrs B, but I think 
UKIs actions mitigated  their upset. It limited  it to a loss of expectation (they  werent going to 
receive the initial settlement offer). No further  delays were  caused, and Mr and Mrs B 
Ref: DRN90802413werent put to any extra  trouble due to the error.
I also accept it was upsetting for Mr and Mrs B when work didnt go to plan and when  
damage was done to their home.
I do note that UKI has made payments to Mr and Mrs B, both to allow them to have work 
done as per their estimate, but also to fix the damage its agent caused and reimburse their 
extra costs  for materials as well as utilities. So I havent seen that Mr and Mrs B have been 
left out of pocket  due to UKIs  poor claims handling (which  would  cause them more upset).
I also note that when Mr and Mrs B told UKI that they couldnt  wait for all work  to be done 
on 18 February 2019, UKI agreed  for an earlier visit to be made by its agent. I know that 
visit didnt go to plan but the fact that UKI authorised this shows it was trying  to assist 
Mr and Mrs B  authorising two visits did come at a cost to UKI and it would be more  usual 
for all repairs  to be done at once.  So I think UKI was trying treat Mr and Mrs B fairly.
I know Mr and Mrs B feel UKI shouldnt be able to keep their excess. They  say the work 
UKI did was so poor it shouldnt fairly be allowed to keep the money.  Whilst the work 
undertaken by UKIs agent clearly wasnt up to standard, UKI did settle  the claim fully in 
cash. So Mr and Mrs B have still benefitted  from the policy. And, for them to receive such a 
benefit, the policy requires their excess  to be paid.
Having considered everything, I think the £300  compensation  offered  by UKI is fair and 
reasonable. I dont  intend to make it pay anything  more. Im also currently satisfied that 
there are no claim monies or financial losses incurred by Mr and Mrs B which  are 
outstanding, so I dont intend  to make UKI pay anything more  to them in this respect either.
UKI made no objection  to my findings. Mr and Mrs B were disappointed by them.  They felt 
I may not have read their emails or properly understood  what they went  through. Mr B 
explained that the temperatures,  whilst  the windows were unrepaired, were almost 
unbearable. Mr B also explained though  that what had really concerned him was that UKI 
told him its contractors werent  capable  of dealing with sash windows  Mr B wants  UKI to 
revise its practices and ensure better contractors are used in the future.
I can assure Mr and Mrs B that I have read everything they and UKI provided. I understand 
this was a difficult  time for them, particularly with experiencing low temperatures.  I should  
also explain  that my role is to assess the individual complaint; the actions the insurer took 
and what is needed  to put things  right for the policyholder in question  in the circumstances 
at hand. So whether or not UKI had or has contractors available  that could do this work, 
I wouldnt be able to make  it change its processes or who it hires/uses in the future.
Having reviewed everything Im satisfied  by my findings provisionally issued. Ive seen no 
good reason to change or move  away from them. My provisional  findings now form part of 
the findings of this, my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against UK Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2020.
Fiona Robinson
Ref: DRN90802414ombudsman
Ref: DRN9080241