K820x#14complaint
Mr R complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation  to a solar  
panel system he says was misrepresented  to him by the supplier.
background
In or around May 2016, Mr R was contacted  by a representative of a company I will call P 
to talk about buying a solar panel system  (the system) to be installed  at his home. After 
seeing a representative of P, Mr R decided to buy the system and pay for it through  a 15-
year fixed  sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was installed a short  time later.
In January 2017 Mr R made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook.  He said P 
had said things about the system that turned  out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced him to enter  into the contract  with P. Mr R says:
He wasnt aware  of the loan agreement Shawbrook and P say he entered into.
He was told hed only be paying  £25 a month.
He wasnt given  any paperwork  from P at the point  of sale.
He is in financial difficulties due to an accident  meaning he can no longer  work.
In its final response letter  Shawbrook said it didnt agree the system had been  
misrepresented to Mr R or that there were any other  reasons for the claim to be upheld. In 
summary, it said:
Originally Mr R contacted P and said his system wasnt  working.  P arranged for an 
inspection and the engineer said there  was nothing wrong  with the system.
The contract P had provided to Mr R set out the expected total returns from the 
system and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear the system would 
cost more than £25 a month.
Shawbrook provided the loan agreement  which is signed by Mr R confirming that he 
read and agreed to the terms and conditions.  These included the right to withdraw  
from the contract.
P provided a copy of the contract which was signed by Mr R to confirm that he has 
been provided with the information pertinent to the system and he understood it. 
Mr R did not agree with Shawbrook  and he referred his complaint to the ombudsman  
service. One of our investigators looked  into what had happened. 
Our investigator didnt  think P had misrepresented the system to Mr R and found  no reason 
to uphold the complaint.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, he said:
P made the initial  contact with him and it presented the sale in an inaccurate way.
Mr R complained as soon as he received his first bill.
Mr R knew  he couldnt afford to pay the £91per  month as stated  in the quotation, but 
he was reassured  that the government grant  would reduce the monthly cost down  to 
£25.
Ps representative knew he was receiving  benefits  because  of his low income and 
that he could not afford £91 a month.
Ref: DRN96446322The case  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account relevant  law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  sections  56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It says:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach  of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr R paid for the system  with a fixed sum loan agreement. Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction.  This means  that Mr R could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against  P, the supplier. So, Ive taken  section  75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances  of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr R and 
P, as the supplier,  are deemed to have  been  conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one person or company  (or their agent) to a second person 
which induces that second person to enter  the contract,  thereby causing them  loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. It says:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor  because  of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  
and matters relating  to the debtor).
Ref: DRN96446323So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by Mr R and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and Mr Rs solar quote,  titled Your Personal Solar  Quotation.
In response to the investigators assessment, Mr R told us that he didnt receive  the quote. 
Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. This said that 
Ps sales practice was for the quotation  to be sent to the consumers shortly after the initial  
meeting via email.  Based on our experience  of what we have  seen with similar complaints, 
Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent this document to Mr R 
and I have no reason  to doubt thats  what happened  in this complaint. 
I also note that Mr R has signed the quotation so I think its clear hes seen the contents  of 
the document.  And  I note that Mr R says he told Ps representative  he could not afford  the 
£91 per month referred  to in the quotation.
I therefore think it is more  likely  than not that Mr R did see the various documents  and I have 
therefore considered  them. 
The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside  Mr Rs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
the FIT payments
Mr R has alleged that he was told the monthly loan repayments would mainly  be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT (feed in tariff) payments and that hed have to contribute £25 a 
month. Ive considered  the quote  that was provided by P and whether  this supports what 
Mr R says he was told as I consider  the quote was central to the sales  presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr R could  expect to receive  by way 
of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income
over 20 years. My understanding  is that the system  would only receive  FIT payments for 20
years and thats why 20 years has been used in the quote.
I think these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr R could expect to receive a 
total income in year one of £170.07 from his FIT.
Page 9 of the quote goes  on to look at the electricity savings  Mr R could expect from the 
system as well as any savings he would make  from taking out any optional  extras  including a 
voltage optimiser. The expected year one electricity savings is £293.14 and the combined 
income and savings in year one is shown as £614.89. This is shown in a table titled Putting 
it all together.
Ref: DRN96446324Page 10 has a section  titled Repayments. This has three  tables set out over 60 months, 
120 months and 180 months. The table for 180 months is highlighted in orange as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr R entered into with Shawbrook. This table  sets out that there are 
180 monthly payments of £91.89 due and compares the overall expected  grand  total from 
the system, averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly  sets out the income  Mr R could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual  monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept  that the table doesnt  simply compare their FIT income  to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does  set out that the overall  income he could expect  to receive  by way of FIT 
income and any additional  savings would  not be immediately be enough to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied Mr R was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be wholly  or mainly covered  by the FIT income  alone  and that hed only 
have to pay £25.
total cost of the system and expected benefits
Ive considered the table I mention above that sets out the expected income from the system 
versus the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily  accessible format  
comparing the two.
Im satisfied that this table  shows that in the first year Mr R was expected to have made a 
loss of £40.65 a month and in the second  year this would decrease  to a loss of £37.65 a 
month. It wouldnt  be until the twelfth year that the expected benefits would exceed the 
monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt  have been  until around year 17 
that they would have  sufficiently recouped  any previous  annual  losses and the system would 
be paying for itself.
So this makes it clear that the system wouldnt  be self-funding  from the start, and Im unable 
to conclude that Mr R was told that the system would  only cost £25 a month.  I think the 
quote is clear that there would be a higher difference  between  the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments. 
Also on page six of the quote is a graph illustrating the difference  between the
expected income  and loan repayments.   Again, Im unable to conclude that the system 
would cost £25 a month as the graph, in my view, clearly illustrates the expected  shortfall 
between the expected income compared to the monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mr R was told that he should receive a year one benefit  of £614.89 as this 
was the expected combined income  from FIT payments and electricity  savings on his energy 
bills. Having  said that, taking into account the available evidence,  Im not persuaded that 
Mr R was led to believe that hed receive  this sum in his hand. Im satisfied that the quote 
makes it clear that hed have to make loan repayments and overall there  would be a deficit.
I also accept that Mr R was told by P that the system should pay for itself over a 17-year 
period. Page  12 of the quote has a table headed  Estimated performance  over 30 years:
This shows that by year 17 the overall benefits  that Mr R could expect  to receive 
(£16,814.10) would  have exceeded  the total amount  payable  under his loan agreement 
(£16,813.80  the figure in the loan agreement which is very close  to the figure illustration  
figure of £16.165.80 just below Mr Rs signature  on page 11). 
Ref: DRN96446325This table  also sets out the panel  degradation  rate so Im satisfied  that P made him aware 
that performance of the system would deteriorate over its lifetime. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr R the system  should pay for itself by year 
17, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance  of the system and whether this is in line with the
contract between P and Mr R. The quote  sets out that the system is expected to produce  
2,510.28 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT payments 
and savings in his energy bills, that Mr R could expect to receive.
Mr R has provided FIT statements from March 2017 to March  2019. Between 22 March 2018 
and 19 March 2019, the system generated a total of 2,091.5 kWh. This is slightly  less than 
estimated in the quote but only by around  70 kWh per year. I think that this is within a 
reasonable margin of the estimates  from the point of sale.  
So, based  on this, I would  expect Mr R to be close to recouping  any initial  losses  from the 
system and for it to have paid for itself by year 17. Mr R has said that this isnt the case  so 
Ive gone on to consider whether P have  overstated the potential income and savings he 
could expect to receive  by, for example using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote  P provided to Mr R was personalised to his specific  circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate  the income and benefits he could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy  generated by the system that 
Mr R would use rather than buying  it from his energy provider, therefore leading  to savings 
on his energy bills and the expected increase in utility prices  alongside  the expected annual 
increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were  based on the 
Office of National Statistics  (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system  is performing in line with the figure provided in
the quote and therefore Im satisfied that the FIT payments received are also in line with the 
figures provided in the quote.
The quote  sets out that Mr R was expected  to use, or self-consume, 75% of the kWh 
generated by the system  each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual  saving of 
£293.14. This amount of saving would  increase  each year in line with the ONS data Ive 
mentioned above.
When setting the percentage of electricity that a consumer would be paid for exporting  to the 
National Grid the Government set a rate of 50%. This implies that a consumer would self-
consume or use the remaining 50%.  
Shawbrook explained  that rather than picking  one standard self-consumption  rate, P, used a 
bespoke calculation which is tailored for each customer. This calculation  is based on 
information provided to them by the consumer about  their electricity usage.  Ive looked at 
this method and Im satisfied that the assumptions  used  are fair and personalised to Mr Rs 
circumstances at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN96446326Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the estimates for the expected generation
by the system and the percentage of energy  that Mr R was expected to self-consume were  
both reasonable  assumptions for P to have  made.
When estimating the future income  and electricity savings that Mr R could expect to
receive from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line
with the available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases  was
6.92% and for RPI was 3.04%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 
2015 to 2020 to see whether both energy  prices  and RPI have increased in line with the 
estimates provided by P. The data from the ONS  suggests that energy prices have 
increased by 3.7% and RPI by 2.56%.  Both of these  figures  are lower than the assumptions 
used by P and in my view explain  why Mr R isnt receiving the financial returns  from the 
system that he may have expected.
The assumptions used  by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS  from 2006 to 2015. Therefore, I dont  think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate  the expected financial returns  from the system.  Im of the
view that this goes  some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding  by year
17. Although I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed  by the financial returns from the system, 
Im satisfied that this isnt due to P using unreasonable assumptions when he entered into 
the contract  for the system.
section 140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair
relationship under s140A the Act.
A sufficient  inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent  found any misrepresentation
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions  used by P were reasonable, I think a
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair  relationship under  the Act.
further considerations
Mr R has said that he didnt receive  any paperwork from P when the panels were sold.  
Shawbrook have provided a screenshot showing that the quote was sent to Mr Rs email  
address on 19 May 2016. I also note that Mr R has signed this document.  Based on this, I 
am satisfied  that Mr R have seen  the contents of the quote  and signed  to confirm that he 
understands its contents.
Mr R has also said he told Ps representative that his income was low and supported by 
benefit payments.   Mr R says he told the representative he could not afford to pay the £91 
monthly referred to in the quote and that he only agreed to buy because he was told it would 
cost him £25 a month because of the government grant.  However, as I have said, none of 
the other information  in the quotation  supports Mr R on that point.   Also  there  is no indication 
that Mr R was on benefits in the records from the time of the sale and his level of income 
recorded at the time seems to show  the loan was affordable.
Mr R has explained that hes in financial difficulties and struggles to pay his loan each 
month. Shawbrook granted the loan to Mr R based  on the loan amount and his income as 
Ref: DRN96446327recorded at the time of the loan. He was able to pay his monthly repayments until December 
2016. Unfortunately, Mr R was in an accident the previous month which  meant he was 
unable to work. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr R, I cant hold Shawbrook responsible  for this as they completed 
sufficient affordability checks when they granted the loan. However I would encourage Mr R 
to contact Shawbrook  to discuss his current financial situation  and Id expect Shawbrook to 
treat him positively  and sympathetically.
summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided  by all parties in this complaint, Im
not persuaded that there were untrue statements of fact made by P that induced  Mr R to 
enter into the contract for the system.  And  I have found no other reason to uphold  this
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2021.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9644632