K821x#15Complaint
Miss L complains that Loans 2 Go Limited  acted irresponsibly  by lending her money  in 
October 2017.
Background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 13 March  2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Loans  2 Go Limited was irresponsible 
when it approved Miss Ls loan. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision.
Neither party responded with anything further to add.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  received any new evidence or information, Ive reached the same conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision  for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  Miss Ls complaint.
I understand that there may be a balance outstanding on the loan, so to put things right, 
Loans 2 Go Limited should do the following:
If Loans 2 Go Limited has sold the outstanding debt it should  buy it back  if it is able to do so 
or chooses to do so and then take the steps  listed below. If Loans 2 Go Limited is not able to 
buy the debt back  or chooses not to, then it should  liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  
the results outlined below.
Loans 2 Go Limited should rework Miss Ls account  removing all interest,  fees and charges 
applied from the outset and treat any repayments made by Miss L as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal. In other  words,  in needs  to ensure that Miss L pays  no more 
than the £250 she was initially  lent.
If this results  in Miss L having made overpayments then Loans  2 Go should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have  arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Ref: DRN95883502If there is an outstanding balance,  then Loans 2 Go Limited should  agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss L. It shouldnt pursue outstanding balances  made  up of principal it 
has already written-off.  
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Loans  2 Go Limited to deduct tax from this interest.  It should give Miss L a 
certificate showing how much  tax it has deducted,  if Miss L asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95883503Copy of my provisional decision
Complaint
Miss L complains that Loans  2 Go Limited  acted irresponsibly by lending her money  in October 2017.
Background
In October 2017, Miss L applied for a loan. Loans 2 Go lent her £250 to be repaid over 18 months at 
£56.64 a month.  The total amount repayable over the full term of the loan was £1,019.52. 
Miss L thinks Loans 2 Go shouldnt have lent her the money.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint, and thought Miss Ls complaint about  the loan she took out in 
October 2017 should be upheld. She didnt  think Loans 2 Go had carried out sufficient  checks before 
deciding to lend Miss L the money.  And she thought that had Loans 2 Go done more, it would have 
realised the loan repayments werent  sustainable.  So, she recommended that Loans 2 Go refund 
Miss L any money she paid in excess of the £250, plus interest.  She also recommended that Loans 2 
Go remove any adverse information relating  to this loan from Miss Ls credit file.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree  with our adjudicators assessment of Miss Ls complaint.  So, the complaint 
has passed  to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded to uphold  Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
When bringing her complaint to our service, Miss L explained she shouldnt have been lent the 
money, as the loan repayments were unaffordable. Shes also told us that she had a history of poor 
credit which Loans 2 Go ought to have taken into account when deciding to lend her the money.
As Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement,  it needed  to assess Miss Ls 
creditworthiness. This included the potential for the commitments  under the agreement  to adversely 
impact Miss Ls financial  situation,  and the ability for Miss L to make repayments as they fell due over 
the term of the loan.
In particular, the regulators rules that applied  to Loans 2 Go at the time said it needed  to make 
reasonable and proportionate  checks  when assessing Miss Ls ability to meet the monthly  
repayments in a sustainable  manner without Miss L incurring financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse consequences. This included Miss L being able to make the payments  on time 
while meeting her other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to meet  the monthly  
loan repayments.
The checks Loans 2 Go did had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan. And 
what is proportionate will depend on a number of factors  including things like the consumers  financial 
history, their financial situation at the time of the loan application, along with other factors such  as the 
amount borrowed, type of loan and the cost of the credit being sought.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks should generally be more  thorough in 
situations where:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income); 
Ref: DRN95883504the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required  to make payments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered what reasonable  and proportionate checks  should  have looked like
when Loans 2 Go was in the process of approving  the loan for Miss L. And Ive thought  carefully 
about what checks Loans 2 Go says it did and whether those were proportionate in the 
circumstances.
Having considered  the available  information, Im not satisfied the checks carried  out by Loans  2 Go 
were reasonable and proportionate when assessing Miss Ls ability to repay  the loan in a sustainable 
manner. Ill explain why.
Loans 2 Go believes the affordability  checks it carried out when Miss L applied for the loan were 
sufficient. In support of what its said, Loans 2 Go has provided us with some information about the 
checks it carried out when Miss L applied for the loan. This included details of the information it used 
to assess  Miss Ls monthly income and expenditure. Its also sent us a copy of Miss Ls credit report  
which it says it used  when deciding to loan Miss L the money.
Based on the information provided,  I can see Miss L declared a monthly  income of £1,429.99 and 
monthly expenses of £887. Loans 2 Go has, however,  told us it didnt rely on this information  when 
assessing whether the loan was affordable, and instead, used an online verification tool to help 
estimate what Miss Ls actual income  and expenditure would have  been.
Loans 2 Go has told us that the verification tool showed  that Miss Ls actual income  was around 
£1,271.69 and her expenses were around £1,072.05, leaving her with around £199.64 as disposable  
income each  month.  Loans 2 Go says this shows  that Miss L had enough  disposable income to meet 
her loan repayments  in sustainable way.
A review of Miss Ls credit report, however, shows Miss L had an active County Court judgment, 
which remained unsettled.  It also shows she was in the process  of repaying a short-term loan. This,  
along with the fact that Miss L was borrowing a relatively  small amount of money over a long period of 
time, seems to suggest that Miss L might  not have  had the disposable  income Loans 2 Go estimated 
she had. As a result, Ive gone on to consider  what other information  was available to help establish a 
clear picture of Miss Ls financial situation around the time of the loan.
Miss L has provided us with copies of her bank statements for the period September  and October  
2017. Having reviewed her bank statements,  I can see her weekly  earnings fluctuated between 
£63.83 and £313.20. Given Miss Ls income  was variable, I would have expected Loans 2 Go to have 
asked Miss L for evidence of what her actual outgoings were to ensure that the loan repayments were 
sustainably affordable.
In addition to this, Miss Ls bank statements shows that her combined weekly  salary for the month 
preceding the loan application, was £1,012.13, approximately £259.56 less than the estimated figure  
used by Loans 2 Go. Her bank statements also show she was making use of her overdraft  facility and 
was relying on transfers into her account from third parties, to help keep her account  balance in credit.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Miss Ls credit file and bank statements  show that she was 
struggling to meet her existing financial commitments, which included an unsatisfied County Court 
judgment. As a result,  I think Loans 2 Go ought to have known that their assessment of Miss Ls 
financial situation wasnt a true reflection of her actual financial situation, and that the loan 
repayments werent  sustainable in the circumstances. So, Ive gone on to consider what  would have 
happened had Loans  2 Go carried  out further checks.  
Ref: DRN95883505Having considered  the available  information, I think that had Loans 2 Go carried  out further 
affordability checks at the time of Miss Ls loan application, I think its unlikely that it would  have 
thought the lending to Miss L was sustainable.  From what Ive seen of Miss Ls actual financial 
situation, I think its more  likely than not that she would  have had to borrow again during  the lifetime  of 
this loan in order to meet her monthly repayments. 
For these  reasons, I dont think Miss L was going to be able to repay  this loan in a sustainable 
manner. I think that if Loans 2 Go had made proportionate checks  it would have realised this. And I 
think Miss L has lost out because of what  Loans 2 Go did wrong.
Putting things right
Loans 2 Go Limited shouldnt have  given  Miss L the loan. I understand that there may be a balance 
outstanding on it. If Loans 2 Go Limited  has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back  if it is able 
to do so or chooses  to do so and then take the following steps. 
If Loans 2 Go Limited is not able to buy the debt back or chooses  not to, then it should  liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
Loans 2 Go Limited should  remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on the 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Miss L as though they had been repayments of the principal.  
If this results in Miss L having made overpayments then Loans 2 Go should  refund these  
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments,  from the date the 
overpayments would have  arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.  
If there  is an outstanding balance,  then Loans 2 Go Limited should agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss L. It shouldnt pursue outstanding balances  made up of principal it has already  written-
off. 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Loans  2 Go Limited to deduct tax from this interest.  It should give Miss L a 
certificate showing how much  tax it has deducted,  if Miss L asks for one. 
Loans 2 Go Limited should  provide me with an up-to-date statement of account in response to this 
provisional decision.   
My provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold Miss Ls complaint. And I currently intend to require Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right as outlined above.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9588350