K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Unum  Ltd unfairly turned  down his income  protection  claim. 
background
Mr K holds an income protection policy with Unum.  In the event of Mr K becoming 
incapacitated, the policy can pay out a set proportion of his income after hes been off work  
for a deferred period of 26 weeks. 
Mr K became unwell  in May 2018  and was signed off work by his GP due to stress related 
problems. 
For a claim to be met, Mr Ks policy requires him to be incapacitated for the duration of the 
deferred period.  The policy defines  incapacity  and deferred period as follows. 
Incapacity or incapacitated means you cannot perform the material  and substantial  
duties of your occupation because  of your illness or injury. 
A continuous period  of 26 weeks  from the date that you are first unable  to perform 
the material and substantial duties of your occupation to the date benefit is first 
payable. 
Mr K hadnt  returned  to work by the end of his policys deferred period  in November 2018, 
and submitted a claim to Unum. During  the deferred  period, Mr K had also sustained an 
injury to his foot. 
Unum turned  down  Mr Ks claim in December 2018.  It said it didnt think he was absent  from 
work due to an illness or injury throughout the entirety of his policys  deferred period. And it 
said the medical evidence itd seen  didnt indicate he was significantly impaired as a result  of 
a medical condition. 
Mr K complained. He said Unum  had unfairly dismissed his mental health condition  and foot 
injury without considering  all of the information  hed provided.   
Unum responded  to Mr Ks complaint. It said Mr Ks medical records showed hed told his 
GP his stress was work-related and due to issues with his employer. It said it accepted  Mr K 
had injured his foot, but said it didnt think this would have stopped  him from working. It said 
it thought he could carry out his role from a seated position. 
Unhappy with Unums  response,  Mr K brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened. She said the notes recorded  by Mr Ks GP referred to 
stress at work, and said his policy didnt provide cover for this. And she said she didnt think 
the medical evidence showed Mr K met the definition of incapacity defined in his policy.  So 
she thought Unum hadnt declined the claim unfairly.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the case to be passed to an 
ombudsman. So its now for me to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN93834932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr K has been feeling unwell for some time. And has been given doctors 
certificates stating he was unfit for work throughout the deferred  period of his policy.  The fact 
that Mr K has been unwell isnt in dispute. What Ive considered is whether his claim met the 
policy terms.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say Unum has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly  and shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. So thats the test Ive applied  
in this case.
mental health condition 
Unum said itd reviewed Mr Ks medical  notes, and said these showed hed asked to be 
signed off work by his GP, due to a situation  with his employer. And it said there was no 
evidence which demonstrated  he was unable to work. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ks medical notes  recorded between May and November 2018.  These  
show that each  time Mr K was provided  with a certificate stating he was unfit for work, the 
diagnosis given by the GP was stress related problems. The notes detail information Mr K 
had described  to his GP about  difficult situations at his work, and him wanting to be signed 
off work until he would be able to claim his pension. So I think  Unums assessment of these 
records and the conclusion it drew was reasonable. 
The medical records reflect that Mr K was feeling  unwell with stress symptoms, but he 
wasnt diagnosed  with a mental illness during  the deferred period of his policy. According to 
the NHS  definition, stress isnt considered an illness. Rather,  its a reaction to a set of 
circumstances, thats usually situational, meaning once the cause of the stress has passed,  
so too should the state of stress. 
Although its clear to me that Mr K was going  through a stressful  time at work, the evidence  
Ive seen doesnt persuade me that he was suffering with a mental  illness which would  have 
prevented him from performing the material and substantial duties of his occupation. So Im 
satisfied Mr K didnt meet  his policys definition of incapacity.  
foot pain 
Mr K attended hospital with a foot injury  in September  2018.  The notes from the hospital visit 
stated Mr K was in pain,  but was able to bear weight on his foot. 
As part of his complaint to Unum,  Mr K provided  a letter from an orthopaedic consultant  hed 
seen at hospital in February  2019. The letter confirmed Mr K had significant pain in his foot 
Ref: DRN93834933which was affecting  his walking. It said Mr K would be treated with injections, but may go on 
to need surgery.
Unum it said it thought the pain Mr K had experienced in his foot wouldnt have prevented 
him from carrying  out his occupation, as he could do so from a seated position. Mr K 
disagreed with this and said he was unable to walk. 
The medical evidence  Ive seen confirms Mr K was experiencing pain in his foot and had 
difficulty walking. But it doesnt persuade  me that he was unable to walk or that he would 
have been unable to carry out his role sitting down. And even if I accepted that Mr K was 
unable to work due to the pain in his foot, I still dont  think  he would have met his policys 
definition of incapacity. I say this because  the policy requires incapacity  to be continuous 
throughout the deferred period. And Mr K didnt begin suffering with pain in his foot until after 
the deferred period of his policy had already  started.  So Im satisfied  that the decision Unum 
made here wasnt unfair. 
new evidence 
Mr K has provided this service with more recent medical evidence  in regard to his health 
during 2019. And I think this evidence supports that his health  worsened. 
Ive considered whether Unum should  re-assess the claim, starting the 26 week deferred 
period in 2019, from the period for which Mr K has evidenced that his health  deteriorated.  
But, if it did this it would  make little difference, as Mr K was no longer an employee after 
February 2019.
time taken  for Unum to reach a decision 
In his original complaint  to Unum, Mr K said he thought it had taken too long to deal with his 
claim and said this had caused him additional anxiety. Mr K hasnt  raised this in the 
complaint hes brought to this service,  but for completeness Ive considered whether there  
were any unnecessary delays. 
Mr Ks policy  requires  that incapacity continues for the duration of the deferred period. So 
I think its reasonable that Unum asked Mr K for evidence of his claim as he neared  the end 
of that period, as his condition across  the duration  of the 26 weeks  is relevant to the claim. 
The deferred  period of Mr Ks policy ended on 8 November 2018, and Unum gave him its 
decision that it didnt  accept the claim on 18 December 2018. I dont think thats an 
unreasonable length of time in these circumstances. 
Ref: DRN93834934Ultimately, Im satisfied Mr K has been  unable to sufficiently evidence  that he was 
incapacitated throughout the deferred period of his policy,  as is required for a successful 
claim. And I dont think Unum has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no 
award against Unum  Ltd. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9383493