K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way their home  insurance claim for water  damage was 
dealt with by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).  They  are represented by their 
daughter, Ms B.
background
In early October 2018 Mr and Mrs B suffered a leak in their home  which caused damage to 
their kitchen. They made a claim to RSA who arranged for contractors to review what 
needed to be done about strip out and drying.  Those  contractors advised  that the kitchen 
units would  need  to be removed, and the tiled floor lifted. The drying contractors werent able 
to do that, so RSA said it could either  instruct its own contractors  or Mr and Mrs B could 
appoint contractors. It was agreed that RSA would proceed with its contractors. After  the 
kitchen was stripped  out, drying commenced in mid-November. RSA agreed to pay Mr and 
Mrs B a disturbance allowance (DA) of £10 per person per day for the time they were  without 
a kitchen. Ms B advised that this wasnt enough as she had additional  laundry  costs for her 
work clothes. RSA agreed to pay for a small washing machine to be installed. It said it would 
consider extra costs if receipts  were provided.
RSA subsequently agreed to refit the kitchen sink and oven so they were  usable. The drying 
out took until early  December and then costs were  approved by RSA to start the work. Ms B 
indicated in early  January  2019 that they were dissatisfied with how long the matter was 
taking and requested details  of the scope of works,  as they wanted to instruct their own 
contractors. A full scope  hadnt been drawn  up, but RSA sent details of the work required so 
Mr and Mrs B could  consider what they wanted. Ms B said they wanted a cash settlement 
and a proposal to settle was put to them at the end of January 2019. Ms B indicated  that this 
wasnt enough, compared to the quote they had had. RSA agreed to appoint  contractors 
again, but by the end of March Ms B advised that Mr and Mrs B wanted a cash settlement 
again. This was because  they wanted some work  done outside of the claims settlement but 
thought the contractors rates for this were  too costly. The settlement was agreed by Ms B 
(subject to their right to complain to this service)  and a settlement was paid to them  in April 
2019. This was paid without VAT,  on the basis that a further  payment would be released on 
receipt of VAT invoices.  
Ms B raised complaints  about the way the claim was dealt with. She also pointed out that her 
brother had had an eye operation and couldnt  live in the dusty  house,  so he had moved to 
live with his aunt, incurring further  expense. RSA admitted that there were delays in the case  
and a lack of communication in the early stages.  It paid initially £100 and then a further  
£250. It wouldnt reconsider  any of the payments made, or any expenses  in respect of Mr 
and Mrs Bs son.
On referral to this service  Ms B advised that they had disposed  of the carpets because they 
were dirty, and that they would  be without  a kitchen when the works were  carried  out. Our 
investigator said that RSA should consider a further  DA payment  for the time the works  were 
carried out, and a payment in respect  of the cost of cleaning the carpets.
Ms B didnt accept this and the matter  has been passed to me for further consideration.
Ref: DRN96780862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delays/poor communication
This claim  took some time to proceed,  despite  Mr and Mrs Bs anxiety that the matter  should 
progress quickly. Whilst RSA acted  quickly to get its contractors to assess  the matter for 
drying out, Ms B found herself having  to chase up RSA and the contractors several times. It 
took the best part of two months to agree what needed doing. I understand this was partly 
because the tiles needed lifting, but in the meantime the property was damp  and dirty. 
Mr and Mrs B were  under the impression that the work would be completed  by Christmas, 
which was unrealistic, considering the drying out took five weeks, and there was a lead in 
time for contractors starting. I dont think this was made sufficiently clear to them, and there  
were in my view unacceptable delays and poor communication in the early part of the claim.
After December 2018, I dont think that RSA was responsible for the subsequent delays. 
Mr and Mrs B, and Ms B had decided they wanted  a cash settlement and the delays in 
January were caused by having  to put together a settlement, then waiting for Ms Bs 
response. RSA then reinstructed its contractors. But further delays were caused  because 
Ms B was dissatisfied  with the costs proposed for doing additional private work, which  
resulted in the contractors leaving the job, and a final cash settlement being paid.
As RSA has paid the cash settlement  proposed, I cant  find it responsible  for any further 
delays in Mr and Mrs B finding contractors,  nor any delays in that work being done.
DA
After the kitchen was removed  for drying out, RSA offered a DA of £10 per person  per day. 
Ms B advised she had extra  laundry  costs  and RSA advised it would consider those, then 
paid for a small washing machine. It wouldnt increase the DA payment however. I 
understand that Mrs B was upset at RSAs suggestion that she wash  up in the bathroom. I 
can see that that might have been a bit insensitive. However, I note that shortly  after that 
RSA arranged for the kitchen sink to be plumbed and the oven reconnected, so she wasnt  
without cooking  and washing facilities for too long.
A DA payment is set at an industry  standard rate of £10 per adult per day. Its intended to 
account for extra expenses when the consumer has to live in their home  without washing 
and/or cooking  facilities. Its intended  to account  for costs over and above what  the family 
would normally pay. I see this was only intended  to be for the drying  period and that RSA 
acted to put the facilities back and paid the cost to enable Ms B to do her extra  laundry. I 
think this was reasonable.
In so far as they will be (or have  been)  without  a kitchen while the repairs  took place, Mr and 
Mrs B should get a DA for this. I would normally expect them to approach RSA about this as 
it didnt form part of their complaint. Nevertheless,  RSA has agreed  to consider payment for 
DA for the time the repairs took place.  If those repairs  have  now finished Ms B should 
approach RSA with details of how long they took and RSA will consider a payment of DA.
cleaning the carpets
Ref: DRN96780863Ms B says they decided to replace the carpets,  as they were  dirty. Normally if carpets arent 
damaged by the actual escape of water,  it would  be reasonable to expect  the cost of a 
professionally clean to be factored in. RSA has said it would have paid such costs  so I think  
it should pay the reasonable cost of this, amounting to what  it would have paid to clean the 
carpets.
son had to move out
I understand that Mr and Mrs Bs son had had an eye operation and that they felt he couldnt 
live in a dusty  home.  As far as I can see this was only mentioned in February 2018, at which  
time RSA asked for the details. I have seen a doctors letter setting out what operation  he 
had, but I havent  seen  any medical confirmation  that he would have had to move out. 
Indeed I note the operation was before  the claim and Mr and Mrs B were  prepared for him to 
stay in the home if the work could be carried out quickly.  I also havent seen details of any 
expenses he incurred  living in his aunts home, and note the DA paid included  him. I dont 
propose to ask RSA to make any further  payment in this respect.
kitchen company wouldnt transfer plans
When the contractors  were planning  to start work, Mr and Mrs B were  asked to go to the 
branch of the suppliers where the contractors had an account. I understand they chose to 
attend their local branch  but the manager refused to transfer the plans to the other branch. I 
agree that was unfortunate but I dont think  it was RSAs responsibility.
taking out a loan
Ms B says Mr and Mrs B had to take out a loan so they could get the work done.  I note this 
loan was taken  out in January 2019,  partly to pay off an existing loan.  Mr and Mrs B received 
the settlement  from RSA in April 2019 and paid the deposit for their kitchen in June  2019.I  
dont think they needed to take out the loan to pay for the kitchen, although I would observe 
that they intended to have a completely new kitchen, including appliances, which  werent 
part of the claim. I dont  propose to make  any award in respect of the loan.
settlement
Under the terms of the policy RSA will pay the lesser of:
The cost of the work had it been completed  by our nominated contractor or;
The cost of the work based upon  the most competitive estimate  or tender from your
nominated contractors.
If RSA is prepared to carry out the work,  which it was in this case, but the consumers chose  
a cash settlement, we say thats  fair. RSA has assessed the cost of the work its contractor 
would charge and paid the appropriate  amount. Our investigator asked Ms B what  the 
shortfall was, and the reasons for it, and we havent  had that information. I note Ms B has 
sent us the contract with the kitchen company for the supply  of the kitchen.  But as Ive said 
this includes all the new parts of the kitchen which arent part of the claim.
compensation
An escape  of water is very stressful, especially  where the home  has to be partly stripped out. 
But unfortunately thats part of an insurance claim, and I can only award compensation 
Ref: DRN96780864where the trouble and upset caused  goes above  and beyond that which  wed normally 
expect in a claim of this type. In my view there were some delays and poor communication in 
the early part of this claim, which caused  the drying out and strip out to be delayed.  RSA has 
paid £350 compensation  which  I think is fair and reasonable and in line with awards we have 
made in similar cases  
 
my final decision
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
consider payment of a disturbance allowance to Mr and Mrs B for the duration of the 
repairs.
pay a reasonable  amount equivalent  to the cost of cleaning the carpets.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9678086