K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about advice given by Kingsway Wealth Management Limited (Kingsway) to 
transfer his existing pension arrangements to a self invested personal  pension (SIPP) and 
invest in an unregulated scheme.
background
In 2009, following advice from Pension Transfers Ltd (an appointed  representative  of 
Kingsway) Mr O transferred two pension arrangements (totalling £66,536.80) to a SIPP. He 
also made a personal  contribution of £3,000.
Two SIPPs were involved. The money  was initially transferred in June 2009 to a SIPP  with 
one provider and the funds held in cash.  In August 2009 there was a transfer to a new SIPP 
provider. Mr O then invested  £67,000  in Harlequin, an unregulated overseas property 
scheme. 
Mr O, through his representative, complained  to Kingsway in July 2018. It said another 
business was responsible. Mr O had been advised  by his wife. Kingsway said she was an 
adviser with another firm (an appointed representative of a network). Mr O knew that 
Pension Transfers Ltd wasnt offering investment advice. Its role had ceased  when  the first 
SIPP had been  established and the funds held on deposit. It hadnt transacted any business 
with the new SIPP provider. That SIPP had presumably been set up on the other firms 
instruction and to allow Mr O to invest in Harlequin. 
Kingsway also said the complaint had been made  too late. 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 July 2019. I dealt with Kingsways argument  that the 
complaint hadnt  been made  in time.  Mr O was complaining  about  advice given in 2009. He 
didnt complain until 2018. That was outside  the primary six year period. But, based  on what 
Id seen so far, I thought the complaint had been  made within three  years  of when Mr O 
became aware  (or ought reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint. 
But I didnt go on to consider that any further. That was because my view was that, even if 
we could consider  the complaint, wed be unlikely to uphold it or say that any loss was 
Kingsways responsibility. Ive recapped here what I said.
is the complaint  likely to succeed?
I should of course  emphasise that Ive only seen limited evidence  as to date the focus has 
been on whether  we can consider the complaint, not if wed uphold it.
But, if we uphold a complaint wed aim to put the complainant in the position hed be in if 
suitable advice  had been given. That involves  considering any causation issues.
From what  Ive seen what Mr O did - transfer to a SIPP so that he could invest in Harlequin   
was driven by his wife. Despite what Mr Os said about keeping their financial affairs  
separate, its apparent Mr Os wife knew about and was involved in Mr Os investment in 
Harlequin  she completed the application form for the [second] SIPP. I think  Kingsway is 
likely to be right when  it says that SIPP was required as the original SIPP provider wouldnt 
permit the Harlequin  investment. So the transfer  to [the second SIPP  provider] was so that 
investment could be made.
Ref: DRN96877382Mr Os wife knew about Harlequin through her work  She presumably thought  the 
investment was attractive and offered the prospect of very good  returns.  So shed have been 
keen for Mr O to invest and he no doubt  trusted  his wife and her judgment. Particularly as 
she had experience in financial services and she was familiar with the particular investment.
I think Mr O would have been strongly influenced  by his wife. If Pension Transfers  Ltd had 
considered the investment and advised  Mr O against transferring  so that he could invest in 
Harlequin I dont  think  hed have heeded that advice. I think hed have wanted to go ahead  
anyway. Either with Pension Transfers Ltd (presumably as an insistent client) or hed have 
found another way of transferring to a SIPP  in order to invest  in Harlequin.
On that basis I dont think Pension Transfers  Ltd is responsible for the losses  Mr O has 
suffered.
I invited Mr O and Kingsway to comment on my provisional decision. 
Kingsway maintained that Mr O would have been aware given what  had happened with his 
wifes employment and hed have known at that time about  the issues  with Harlequin. And 
he didnt dispute  that he knew in 2013 what had happened to Harlequin. 
Mr Os representative hasnt commented.  We checked that my provisional  decision had 
been received.  A reply  was promised which wasnt forthcoming. We told Mr Os 
representative (on 12 September 2019) that as we hadnt heard further the case  had been 
passed back to me for a final decision.  We didnt get any reply. 
my findings
I still think Mr Os complaint has been made in time. 
As Kingsway points  out, Mr O knew in 2013  what had happened to Harlequin. But I said in 
my provisional decision that I didnt  think Mr O was aware then that Pension Transfers  Ltd 
might have some responsibility his Harlequin  investment.  Thats still my view. 
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My view (and in the absence of any further comments  from either party about the merits)  
hasnt changed.  So I still dont think in the circumstances  of this particular case  that 
Kingsway is responsible for any losses Mr O has sustained in connection with his Harlequin  
investment. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9687738