K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what  Santander UK Plc has done to put things right following his 
complaint about  the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2018, Mr H complained  he was mis-sold  PPI alongside his mortgage.  Santander  
investigated the complaint and agreed  to put him in the position hed be in if he hadnt 
bought the policy. Santander  worked  out it needed to pay him £104.34.
Mr H thinks he should get more. He says his mortgage ran from 1998 to 2002,  but 
Santander has only refunded the PPI premiums he paid in early 2000. Hes also unhappy 
that Santander paid the refund  into his account  without him accepting  it.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, and thought  that what  Santander had offered was 
fair. Mr H didnt  agree with the adjudicators view. So the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Santander agrees the complaint about the sale of PPI should be upheld, Ive just looked 
at whether theyve  worked out compensation correctly.
Where I decide  or a business accepts   that PPI was mis-sold,  I expect the business  to put 
the consumer  in the position theyd be in if they hadnt bought  the policy.
Mr H bought this policy  to protect his mortgage  and based on what  Ive seen he paid for 
this policy  by a separate  payment each month the policy was in force.  So he needs  to get 
back the extra hes paid.  And Id expect  Santander to pay simple interest to compensate him 
for the time hes been  out of pocket.
Based on what Ive seen,  the policy started  at the end of November 1999 and ended in 
March 2000  and Ive seen records from the insurer showing this. Santander has also sent 
us a list of the premiums  Mr H paid.  This shows he paid £31.64  at the beginning  of January 
2000  I think  its likely  this premium covered the first two months of the policy   and then 
paid two further premiums  of £15.82  in February  and March  2000. Later in March, Mr H 
received a refund of £15.82. The records Santander  has sent us suggest this refund 
happened when  the policy was cancelled.
So in total,  Mr H paid £47.46 towards  the policy.  This is the amount Santander included in its 
refund. Santander  has also paid £56.88 in interest  to compensate  Mr H for the time hes 
been out of pocket.
I note Mr H says he thinks  his policy ran for longer. Ive thought  very carefully  about  what 
hes said. But I havent seen any information  suggesting the policy ran for longer  and in his 
case the insurer does  have a record showing the start and end dates of this policy. The 
insurer is a separate  business from Santander,  and so while  I see Mr H may have been  told 
that the records Santander holds  before 2000 are limited, I dont think this makes  a 
difference in his case.
Ref: DRN92533492Mr H also suggests the PPI may have been hidden  in his mortgage repayments.  The records  
Ive seen suggest this policy was paid for by a separate direct debit.
Finally, Mr H is unhappy that Santander  paid the money straight  into his account without 
waiting for him to say if hed accepted the offer. He feels  Santander  shouldnt  have done this 
without first seeing if he accepted their offer. I recognise Mr H feels strongly about this  but 
as this means Mr H has received the compensation, Im not going to tell Santander to do 
anything further  to put this right.
In all the circumstances, I think what Santander has offered is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  above Santander UK Plc has paid fair compensation for mis-selling PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9253349