K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  wont pay him compensation 
for a mis-sold card protection policy. He says he wasnt sent the correspondence  to make a 
claim for compensation  under a redress scheme and so RBS should  pay him what  he would 
have received under the scheme plus interest.
background
RBS sold Mr M a card protection policy in April 2007. Mr M says that in 2012 or early 2013,  
the scheme administrator sent him correspondence about the mis-selling of the policy and 
set out that a vote would  take place as to whether  customers would be able to take part in a 
redress scheme. The policy was cancelled a short time later but Mr M says he heard nothing 
further about the redress scheme.
Mr M says that in 2018 he read in a newspaper that the redress scheme  had been  in 
operation but had wound down by that point. So he complained to RBS about the fact that 
he had not been included  in the redress scheme and paid compensation.
RBS says that all the correct documents relating  to the redress  scheme were sent to Mr M. 
So hes not entitled to compensation as hed missed the deadline for claiming  under  the 
redress scheme. 
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ms complaint  and agreed with RBS that it shouldnt  be 
upheld as the redress scheme rules had been followed and Mr M had missed  the deadline.  
Mr M isnt happy with this. Hes adamant that the claim documentation wasnt sent to him as 
he keeps records of all documents and nothing  about the redress scheme  was sent to him. 
Hes also unhappy that RBS didnt respond  to some of his letters about the complaint.
my findings
In 2013, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) agreed a redress  scheme to compensate 
customers, like Mr M, who had been sold a card protection  policy. 
Broadly, the scheme  required  businesses to refund premiums  paid on or after 14 January 
2005 to customers  whod  made  a claim under the scheme before a certain date. This 
scheme was approved  by the High Court. 
The FCA also decided the ombudsman service should follow the same scheme rules when 
deciding complaints about the sale of card protection policies that wouldve been covered by 
the scheme. As Mr Ms policy was sold in April 2007, Im satisfied its covered by the 
scheme.
This means  that rather  than deciding whats fair and reasonable, as I would normally  do, Im 
only able to look at whether  the scheme rules were followed and whether Mr M has received 
what he was entitled to under the scheme.  
The scheme rules say Claim Forms  must be received by the Scheme Administrators on or 
before the Bar Date. If a Claim Form is received after the Bar Date, the Claim Form will be 
rejected and the Scheme Creditor shall have no right to Redress . The bar date was 30 
Ref: DRN92830832August 2014 (there was a later bar date of 28 February 2015 if any of the exceptional  
circumstances listed in the rules applied). 
RBS has provided records for Mr Ms policy.  They show a scheme voting form was sent to 
his home  address on 19 November 2013  and a scheme claim form sent on 20 February 
2014. 
Mr M didnt  return  the claim form or contact the scheme administrator or RBS before the bar 
dates. He says this is because he didnt receive  the claim form.
I cant be sure about whether Mr M did or didnt  receive the claim form. I accept that theres  
a possibility he didnt  receive it. But, Im afraid  this doesnt alter the position. The redress  
scheme rules say that Any notice given under the Scheme by the Scheme Administrators to 
any person shall be sufficiently served by posting the same by first class (or equivalent) or 
airmail post to or leaving the same at the address of such person last known to [the policy 
administrator]. Im satisfied that the form was sent to the address held for Mr M at the 
relevant time. There wasnt  a requirement for the documentation to be received. So, as he 
missed the deadline in the bar dates,  Mr M isnt entitled to any redress  under the scheme.
RBS says its sorry that it didnt respond  to two of Mr Ms letters about this complaint. It has 
explained that this was due to a restructure  of part of its business. Whilst its unfortunate that 
this happened, I dont  think  this warrants the payment of any compensation - particularly as I 
think RBS had set out its position on the complaint in earlier  correspondence.
I understand Mr Ms frustration. But, there are no grounds for me to uphold  Mr Ms complaint 
and award him any compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Abdul Hafez
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9283083