K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the changes to the charging platform  by Santander  UK Plc. 
In particular, theyre not happy that their shares  were sold to pay for the new charges. 
background
Mr and Mrs H hold separate identical investment bonds with Santander, which they have 
held for a significant number of years, since Abbey National. They received an income  of 
roughly 2% a year and were content  with their investment.  
Towards the end of 2017, the management  of these accounts were moved to Santanders 
Investment Hub. Mr and Mrs H were written to in mid-2016 to notify  them of this change.   
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint. It says that Mr and Mrs H were given sufficient notice 
about the changes,  along  with different options  to consider. Overall it says it explained the 
changes.  
The adjudicator having considered the complaint didnt think  it should  be upheld for similar  
reasons to the business. She thought  that the changes  had been explained to Mr and Mrs H, 
and that they were  given sufficient notice along  with options in case they wanted to go 
elsewhere and didnt like the changes being  implemented. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the adjudicators conclusions. In short, Mr H made the 
following key points:
The Platform Service  Fee implemented by Santander is new and additional to its 
standard investment management  fees. 
Its not made clear  how the fee works and is buried in a set of statement figures. 
The statement if you dont agree these charges you can transfer to another provider 
we wont charge you is no option whatsoever.  Why should they have  to find a new 
investment? 
Santander needed to be upfront about their fees  at no point did it tell them  it had 
sold some  of their shares. Telling customers after the event isnt helpful, it just 
demonstrates greed of the highest order.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs H say, Im not going to 
uphold this complaint.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Hs strength  of feeling  about this matter.  
Ref: DRN99871122The have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by them and Santander,  and reach what I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I dont think Santanders  decision to make changes to its platform  is wrong. Its a business  
decision that its entitled to make  in the legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement. Its 
not for us to tell Santander how to run its business.
Despite Mr and Mrs Hs concerns, I note Santander maintains that these  changes  were 
necessary to make improvements with its fees and online access. 
Im aware that there are some changes in respect of which a business  isnt required to notify 
its customers or obtain their consent.   
In this instance, because of changes  to Santanders  terms and conditions,  it was obliged to 
notify its customers, particularly given changes  to its fee structure, which on balance Im 
satisfied it did in good time. 
Despite what Mr and Mrs H say I note that they were  supplied with a key features document 
and the fees, charges and interest rates leaflet detailing the changes.  They were also given 
a phone number  that they could call if something  wasnt clear or they had questions.  
But Santander is not required to obtain  their consent  or acquiescence  before implementing 
any change. Thats principally why Mr and Mrs H werent consulted and had no say in this 
commercial decision making process.  
I note these changes  were put in motion  as a result of a drive by the industry  regulator  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Im mindful  that payments were  previously taken  by adjustment 
to unit prices and this was, understandably, considered to be opaque.
 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mr H have held their investment for a significant period  of 
time, and also feel let down, this doesnt prevent Santander from implementing  changes  to 
its business, and especially  because they were  given  options to go elsewhere without being 
charged for leaving the Santander platform.  I appreciate they think this is unfair but on 
balance I dont think that it is. 
If Santander had simply  told them that they had to accept the changes and couldnt  leave  
without incurring a charge,  it might be considered unfair and unreasonable. But having  been 
given options   for precisely this reason  I dont think Santander  couldve reasonably done 
more in the circumstances. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs H feel particularly let down because  fees were deducted from 
their capital Im unable to say that Santander  has behaved unreasonably.  
Ref: DRN99871123Im mindful that they were  given  the option to set up a separate account  into which funds  
could be placed  either by debit or credit  card, or by having their dividends paid into it. And it 
was only if there was no money to pay for the fees,  that monies would be collected from their 
shares.  
In the circumstances I dont think it wouldve been  reasonable for Mr and Mrs H to do 
nothing, particularly if they were  unsure about the changes coming in.  By not taking any 
action, in other words  by not telling Santander that they didnt  want to be a part of the 
Investment Hub, I dont think Santander  was wrong to assume that theyd accepted the 
migration along  with its terms and conditions.  
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusion  that Santander has been  fair in the way that these 
changes have been introduced. 
I appreciate Mr and Mr H will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear.  But on the face 
of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint  and give them  what they want.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 November  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9987112