K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs unhappy with the way The Society of Lloyds has settled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy. 
background
A third party  submitted  a claim against  Mr R. He denies he was at fault and hes unhappy 
The Society of Lloyds settled the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis.  
The Society of Lloyds said in its final response that the policy  allowed the underwriters to 
settle a claim including if they consider  its not economically viable to see a case through to 
trial. Here the claim has been investigated and the settlement  was made reasonably  and in 
line with the policys  terms and conditions.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said the The Society of Lloyds 
was entitled under the terms of the policy to defend or settle any claim.  It had tried to prove 
Mr R wasnt to blame before accepting  a 50/50  split liability decision.  It has handled Mr Rs 
claim in a fair and reasonable way.
Mr R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  Hes reiterated he wasnt  to 
blame and has provided more evidence and submissions about what he says happened.  
Hes also unhappy about how long its taken for some  evidence to come  to light. And he 
disputes the level of damage caused  to the other partys  vehicle and says it was already 
damaged when the incident occurred. He suspects  there is an insurance fraud. He still thinks 
The Society of Lloyds was too quick to accept a 50/50 settlement. He wouldve  liked the 
case to have gone to court.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has said hed like to speak to me about his complaint. But I dont think this will assist  
me as I already  have enough  information  available from the parties  to allow  me to make my 
final decision.
Mr R has provided detailed  evidence  and submissions to support his complaint. Ive read 
and considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
Mr R has very strong views about  what happened in the incident  and says the other  party 
was to blame. Hes also provided  detailed evidence  and submissions which  he says support 
his view. But its not our role to decide  whos at fault for an accident. That is something  only 
a court  can consider. We can only look into whether the underwriter of the policy has 
conducted a reasonable  investigation into a claim, when making its own decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy the underwriter  is entitled to defend and settle a claim as it 
sees fit. It also doesnt need Mr Rs approval  of any decision to admit liability,  settle  a claim 
or make a payment to a third party. The Society of Lloyds also isnt obliged to take a case to 
court even if the policy holder, like Mr R here,   would like it to so. Its entitled to consider the 
Ref: DRN91730712economics of proceeding to defend the case and the potential  costs and risks of proceeding 
to court.
Overall I think  The Society of Lloyds has investigated matters reasonably. It considered  the 
vehicles damage  and what each party said. There werent any independent witnesses. It 
tried to get the other  insurer  to accept liability and when it wouldnt do so, concluded it didnt 
think it could successfully  prove Mr R wasnt to blame. It decided  to settle the other partys 
claim on a 50/50 split liability basis.
Mr R may disagree with The Society  of Lloyds interpretation of the evidence and decision to 
settle the claim on a 50/50 spilt liability basis but I dont  think its failed to comply  with the 
policy terms or exercised  its discretion unfairly  or unreasonably when deciding to settle  the 
case as its done.  
I understand Mr Rs frustration. But taking everything into account I dont think The Society 
of Lloyds has done anything wrong. And I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably require it to 
do anything more. Overall  I dont see a compelling  reason to change the proposed outcome 
in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9173071