K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Cs credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Cs application for the credit card. It included a section on 
Credit Card Repayments Cover (a form of PPI). There was a brief description of the 
benefits of the cover, and a box to sign if the applicant wished to take it. Mrs C signed  
the box. I think Bank of Scotland made Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional and that 
she chose to take it  although  I can understand why she may no longer remember  
this, so many years  later.
 Mrs C told us she applied for the credit  card over the phone, and she cant  remember  
whether Bank of Scotland  gave her advice  or recommended the PPI to her. But Im 
satisfied that the application form she completed was, in fact, a postal application. And 
I think its unlikely that she had any contact with Bank  of Scotlands  staff when she 
completed it. So I dont  think  Bank  of Scotland recommend the PPI to Mrs C. This 
means it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. It was for Mrs C to decide  
whether she wished to take PPI, knowing what alternative  means  shed have had of 
making her monthly credit card repayments  if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her 
job.
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should  have  been.  But Mrs C chose  to take out the policy.  So she appears  to 
have wanted this type of cover. Based on what shes told us about her circumstances 
at the time,  she wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions and limitations of the 
policy, such as provisions  about unusual working arrangements  or existing medical 
conditions. And the policy  was competitively  priced and apparently affordable. 
Ref: DRN92953412 Ive borne in mind  that Mrs Cs told us shed have been entitled  to six months full pay, 
followed by six months  half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. 
But if shed made a successful claim on the policy  for accident,  sickness or 
unemployment, it would have helped with her monthly  credit  card repayments for up to 
12 months. Thats longer than Mrs Cs told us shed have been entitled  to full sick pay 
for. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs C 
received from her employer. So she could have  used those to meet other day-to-day 
expenses. 
 So taking everything into account,  I think the PPI could have been useful for Mrs C, 
especially as shes told us that aside from her employee benefits, she didnt have any 
other means she could have  used to make her credit card repayments  if she was off 
sick or if she lost her job. And I think it unlikely Mrs C would have  made a different  
decision if better information had been provided. On balance  I think  shed still have  
taken out the policy.  So I dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
 This means that Bank  of Scotland doesnt  need to refund everything Mrs C paid for the 
PPI. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs C back some of the cost of 
the PPI. I understand it has already paid this to Mrs C. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9295341