K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services  UK Limited applied unfair charges 
at the end of a hire purchase  agreement. He wants the charges reduced or waived.
background
Mr W is represented in this complaint by a family  member, Mr H. But for ease of reading Ill 
just refer to Mr W. 
Mr W tells us that following an inspection,  prior to the return  of the vehicle  at the end of the 
hire purchase agreement,  he was charged  for replacement tyres and an additional usage  
charge. He told us he didnt think  the charges were justified. He said that before returning 
the vehicle hed fitted two new front tyres  on it. And he explains that the extra usage arose 
from Mercedes failure  to collect the vehicle on the agreed date.
Mercedes said the charges  had been  applied in accordance with its vehicle return  standards. 
And these  had been supplied to Mr W along with a copy of the agreement. It said it had 
agreed to remove the charge for extra usage. And that as a gesture of goodwill  it said would 
reduce the damage charge by 25%.
Our adjudicator said he thought the charge  for the tyres had been  correctly  applied. He said 
that Mercedes  vehicle return standards stated the vehicle: must have matching tyres (of a 
size and brand, approved by the manufacturer)."   He said the vehicle had been returned with 
the front tyres of an approved brand but they differed in terms of size and speed rating. And 
he said the front tyres had a speed rating of W but the rear tyres were  V. So they werent  
matching. And he said the charge for the rear tyres related to uneven wear. He also said that 
Mercedes had during the course  of the enquiry removed a charge of £35 for dent to a door 
and he thought this was fair.
Mr W didnt agree with this and as its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that its always disappointing  if unexpected charges arise at the termination of 
an agreement.  And I can see that Mr W was alert to the need to return the vehicle in good 
condition. So I recognise his concern.
I can see a fair degree of progress has already been made in settling various elements of 
the complaint  but a particular issue relating to two front tyres remains  unresolved.
Ive had the opportunity to look at the final inspection  report which was accompanied by 
photographs. And Ive also read through the vehicle  return standards which  formed  a part of 
the agreement. These required Mr W to maintain the vehicle in a condition which is 
consistent with the attached Vehicle Return Standards.
Ref: DRN98926502I also checked with a respected industry  guide the recommended tyre specifications  for a 
vehicle of this type.  This indicated that the two new front tyres which Mr W had fitted  to the 
vehicle were a suitable  all season  tyre for this model. When I put this to Mercedes it 
accepted this and has now agreed to remove the charges for these tyres. In the light of this I 
dont think I need  make any further findings  on this aspect.
Mr W conceded that the rear tyres were borderline and had agreed hed accept the charge 
for these  items if other charges were removed.  I consider the rear tyres  fell outside the return  
standards and were  charged correctly but in view of Mercedes agreeing  to remove the 
charges for the two other tyres I think this issue is also resolved.
In summary,  I uphold the complaint in respect of the charges to the two front tyres only and 
will require Mercedes to remove this charge from any outstanding  balance.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint in part.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I now require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
Limited to take the following action:
1.To remove  charges  from the invoice totalling  £386.86 (excl.  VAT) in respect of two 
front tyres.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9892650