K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about how Tesco Underwriting Limited has handled a claim made on her 
motor insurance policy.  She wants it to refund  her hire car costs and waive  her policy  
excess. 
background
Mr A, a named driver on Mrs As policy, said her car was damaged  when it came in contact 
with another cars open door. Mr A said someone  in the other  car opened  the door into his 
cars path.  The other driver said Mrs As car ran into the open door. Mrs A made a claim to 
Tesco but she was unhappy liability is unresolved and that she was asked to pay her policy  
excess. There were also issues regarding her choice of garage and provision of a courtesy 
car.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Liability  was still in 
dispute. He thought Mrs A hadnt  agreed  for repairs  to be made and so Tesco couldnt then 
take legal  action against the other driver. He thought the policy excess was payable. He 
thought Mrs A had chosen to use her own garage  and so no courtesy car was provided by 
the policy terms and conditions. Tesco hadnt  authorised the repairs estimate quickly.  But as 
Mrs A wouldnt have  the repairs made until liability  was established, he didnt think this had 
caused Mrs A any loss. Mrs A had taken a hire car but he didnt think Tesco was responsible 
for this.
Mrs A replied that Tesco should take legal proceedings to establish liability. She thought  she 
was entitled to a courtesy car under  her policy whilst  hers was being repaired.  She thought 
Tesco was responsible for these costs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A is adamant that he wasnt  in any way to blame for the accident. I can 
understand that Mrs A wants her claim resolved.
The adjudicator has already explained  that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible  for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
Tesco is entitled under  the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs A to take over, defend,  
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Mrs A has to follow its advice in connection  with the settlement 
of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
Having looked  at its file, I think Tesco initially progressed the claim reasonably.  Mr A 
supplied photos,  measurements and an account  of what happened.  But the other party  
disputed this. It seems to be one partys  word against the others. So Tesco  advised  Mrs A 
that it may have to settle on a split liability basis. But Mrs A didnt  accept this. 
Ref: DRN96284942Tesco told Mrs A that she would have to have  her repairs made or accept cash instead  in 
order for it to take legal action to dispute liability. Tesco needs  Mrs A to do this as it can only 
dispute a claim in court if it has made an outlay. But Tesco said that in order for repairs  to go 
ahead or for it to make  payment, then Mrs A must  agree  to pay her policy  excess. 
I can see that Mrs A refuses to do this as shes adamant that she wasnt  to blame for the 
accident. But I think this is normal industry practice  and also a requirement  of Mrs As 
policys terms and conditions. The excess is always the first part of a claim that is payable. If 
Mrs A is found not at fault, then she can recover the excess  from the other party or its 
insurer. So I cant require Tesco to waive the policy excess.
So I think Tesco explained  what Mrs A would need to do for it to dispute  liability.  But Mrs A 
didnt want to do this. From what I can see, liability is not yet agreed. But I cant  reasonably 
hold Tesco responsible for this.
Mrs A wanted to use her own garage for the repairs. The policy terms and conditions  state 
that in that case  shes not entitled to a courtesy  car. Tesco said it put Mrs A in contact with a 
credit hire company. This provides hire cars in the case of non-fault claims and seeks to 
recover the costs from the other partys insurer. I can see that Mrs A thinks  that Tesco  
instructed or authorised  the hire car provider. 
Credit hire doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of this service,  as it not regulated  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. So I cant consider its actions here. The adjudicator has already 
suggested an alternative body that can consider Mrs As complaint about it if she so 
chooses.
However, this service considers that if a business refers a consumer to a company outside  
of this services jurisdiction it should make sure it provides clear and sufficient information to 
the consumer.  It also should  not rely on information that may be provided by the credit hire 
company or any other unregulated third party.
Ive listened to the call the named driver  had with Tesco when he described the accident 
circumstances and when  he was offered a referral for credit hire. The agent made it clear 
that this was a separate company and that the hire costs would be reclaimed from the other 
drivers insurer.  The agent didnt then explain the option of not using the credit hire company 
but using the insurer  for a courtesy car. But this was explained  clearly  in the second call the 
named driver had with Tesco about  the claim.  
But I dont think this made any difference to the decision to use credit hire. This was because  
Mrs A wouldnt pay her excess and didnt want to use Tescos  garage in any case. So she 
wouldnt have been entitled to a courtesy car under her policy.  Mr A made it clear  that they 
needed a car. And so I think Mrs A would have chosen to use credit hire in any case. So I 
cant hold Tesco responsible for the actions of the credit hire company or for the hire costs 
Mrs A incurred. 
So I think Tesco passed Mrs As details to the credit hire company and she then made  an 
agreement with it. Mrs A had the car for some weeks  until the credit hire company asked for 
it to be returned.  This was because Tesco hadnt authorised the repairs estimate  provided  by 
Mrs As garage and the other insurer wouldnt have covered the hire car costs  unless  they 
were reasonable. 
Ref: DRN96284943Tesco covered  the hire costs until that point,  which I think was fair and reasonable. But as 
Mrs A chose to not return her hire car then, I cant say that Tesco  should be responsible for 
the further costs  incurred.  
Mrs A was concerned about delays in the claim. Ive looked at the timeline of events and I 
can see that there may have been delays  in Tesco approving the repairs  estimate. It told the 
garage several times that it was waiting for it. There were independent engineers  involved.  
There seems  to have been  a want of communication between the parties. But Tesco 
approved the invoice  on the same day it was received. 
In any case, Mrs A declined to have repairs made  or accept cash  instead as she wouldnt 
pay her excess. So any delay didnt make a difference in outcome for Mrs A and so I cant 
say Tesco  should  be responsible for the hire car costs because  of this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9628494