K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC t/a Barclaycard closed  his credit card accounts  
without notifying  him.
background 
Mr B held two credit  card accounts with Barclaycard. In March 2019, Barclaycard  confirmed  
there had been  fraudulent activity on one of the accounts. It blocked the card associated with 
the account, issued a replacement card and refunded  two fraudulent  transactions.
In April 2019, Mr B attempted to use the replacement card, but it was declined. Barclaycard 
told him the account had been closed because he didnt  meet  its lending  requirements. It 
also said there was a possibility of further  fraud on his account. It subsequently wrote  to  
Mr B to apologise that he wasnt  notified about the account closure, and to confirm  the 
second account would be closed in due course. It explained it hadnt detected  the fraudulent 
transactions because  they were similar  to his genuine spending.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said Barclaycard failed to 
protect his account  from fraudulent use, and closed the account without telling him in 
advance, meaning  hed suffered embarrassment when his card was declined. He said his 
accounts had been handled incompetently,  and that he wants  £5,000 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a result  of Barclaycards  failings.
Barclaycard explained its policy is to look into closing accounts where there  have been  
multiple fraud claims over a short period, but it accepted Mr Bs account had been wrongly 
selected for closure. It accepted  Mr B was a longstanding and valued  customer, and his 
accounts shouldnt  have been closed.  It said it was happy to reinstate either or both of the 
accounts and it offered  £500 compensation for his cards having  been cancelled incorrectly, 
and the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
Our investigator thought £500  compensation was fair, but Mr B has asked for his complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Hes said hes pleased  Barclaycard has accepted 
wrongdoing and is willing to have  one of the accounts reinstated, with the same  credit limit. 
But he doesnt think Barclaycards offer of £500 accounts for the gross upheaval and 
embarrassment he experienced. He argues that for Barclaycard to put him back into the 
position he would have been in had the errors not occurred, it would need to pay him £1,500 
compensation. Barclaycard maintains its offer is fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no evidence that Barclaycard was to blame  for the fraudulent  transactions  on Mr Bs 
account, and Im satisfied  that, once the issue was identified, it was handled promptly  and 
fairly, and the money was refunded. Unfortunately, Barclaycard proceeded to close  Mr Bs 
two accounts  in error. And it failed to tell him the accounts had been closed.  Its accepted   
Mr Bs accounts were closed in error,  and its offered  £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr B experienced as a result  of its failings. 
Ref: DRN99398722Mr Bs questioned the suggestion that he didnt fulfil Barclaycards lending criteria,  explaining  
he had the accounts for over 36 years  and always paid the bills in full.  He doesnt feel £500 
is sufficient compensation  for the inconvenience he suffered, including the time and cost 
involved in applying for a new credit  card account. Hes said that, as a new customer, the 
limit he was offered  on the new account was 30% less than the limit he had on his 
Barclaycard account.  Hes explained  that, because hes agreed for one of his accounts to be 
reinstated, he will now have to spend time closing one of the new accounts  he opened and 
transferring all the recurring  payments  to the reinstated  card. 
Ive considered the impact the account closures had on Mr B, including  the embarrassment 
of having had his card declined when he wasnt told about the account closure. But Im 
satisfied £500  compensation fair and that it addresses the impact of Barclaycards  failings. I 
know that because  of the cost and inconvenience,  Mr B thinks hes entitled to more 
compensation, but Im satisfied £500  is reasonable.
I understand Mr B will be disappointed but for the reasons outlined  above Im satisfied  that 
the £500 compensation Barclaycard has offered is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC t/a Barclaycard should  pay Mr B £500 
compensation in full and final settlement of this complaint. The compensation is to be paid 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell Barclays Bank UK PLC t/a Barclaycard Mr B 
accepts my final decision (if he does).  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest*  on 
the compensation from the date my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year 
simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC t/a Barclaycard to take off tax 
from this interest, they must give Mr B a certificate  showing how much tax theyve  taken off if 
he asks for one. He may then be able to reclaim  the tax from the tax authorities  if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9939872