K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received at Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). 
When he raised a complaint it was closed without informing him.
background
Mr G wanted to open a new account  with Halifax so he was asked to confirm his address. 
Hed just moved house and didnt  have any utility bills for the new address. So Mr G was told 
a copy of his tenancy  agreement  would  be sufficient. He got a copy from his estate agents. 
But when he visited a branch he was told it wasnt enough. And the member of staff didnt 
even look at the document.
Mr G was told he needed some other  identification.  So he provided his driving licence. But 
he was told that wasnt sufficient either as it showed his old address. Mr G said he tried to 
explain that a different  branch had told him to come here with his tenancy agreement. He 
raised a complaint about the treatment hed received. But Halifax  closed the complaint 
without informing him. And he had to keep chasing  the bank for a formal response.
Mr G would like compensation  for the stress and anxiety  caused by the misinformation and 
for the rude treatment he received in the branch.  And hed like a proper explanation of what  
had happened. 
Bank of Scotland apologised for the poor service Mr G had received. And it arranged for a 
payment of £50 in compensation.  When Mr G didnt  receive the banks final response letter  it 
paid an additional  £39 for any further  distress or inconvenience and for the cost of Mr Gs 
calls.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Bank of Scotlands  response. He didnt receive a letter from the 
bank. And the money was put into his account  without any explanation. So he contacted our 
service and our adjudicator looked  into the matter. She could see Mr G had been given 
misleading information. Hed been  told his tenancy  document wasnt  an acceptable form of 
ID. And the bank had voided Mr Gs complaint so hed had to re-open it.
But she could see Halifax had written  with a final response in October 2018. And itd 
apologised and explained  it was paying  £50 compensation into his account. When Mr G said 
he didnt receive  the letter  Halifax paid a further £39 for any additional  distress  caused and 
for the cost of his calls. So she felt Halifax had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr G didnt agree. Halifax hadnt  addressed the rude behaviour hed experienced in the 
branch. And hed found evidence online which said Halifax shouldve accepted his tenancy  
agreement. So hes asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says he received a poor level of service when he tried to provide confirmation of his 
new address. And hes unhappy with the way Halifax responded to his complaint. So Ive 
looked carefully at everything Mr G and Halifax have said to see whats happened.
Ref: DRN90714302When Mr G first contacted Halifax he was told a tenancy agreement  would  be acceptable. 
And Ive seen the list of documents Halifax will accept in relation to new customers  and 
applications. To confirm  a persons  identity  it normally accepts a current photo driving 
licence or a UK passport.  If the customer isnt able to provide one of those there  is a list of 
alternative proofs of identity including a tenancy agreement. But the customer  must provide 
two items from the list to confirm identity.
However to confirm an address a tenancy  agreement issued by a solicitor, housing 
association, local council  or reputable high street estate agent would be sufficient.  So 
although Mr G was given  the right information initially he was given the wrong information 
when he visited the branch.  He wanted  to confirm his address.  So the agreement shouldve  
been accepted. Instead Mr G said he received a rude and dismissive response.
Mr G is also unhappy with the way Halifax handled  his complaint. He had to chase for a 
formal response.  And when Halifax wrote to him on 4 October  2018  to apologise and offer 
£50 compensation  Mr G said he didnt receive the letter.  So he was further distressed when 
he saw a credit in his account when he hadnt  received  an explanation.
Halifaxs records do show the letter was sent.  And it also tried unsuccessfully  to call Mr G 
about the complaint. But I can see the bank offered  Mr G a further £30 compensation for any 
further distress caused. And it offered £9 to cover the costs of Mr Gs calls to the bank.
Its clear Halifax couldve  handled  things better. Although Mr G was given the correct 
information about the tenancy agreement he received a poor level of service  when he visited 
the branch. And there were problems when Mr G tried to raise a complaint.
I know Mr G is unhappy  with the behaviour of the member of staff when he visited  the 
branch. And he doesnt feel Halifax has properly addressed this issue.  But Halifax  has now 
offered an apology. And Im sure the bank looks at the outcome of all the complaints it 
receives to see if it can improve its service. 
Halifax has paid Mr G a total of £89 compensation for any trouble or upset caused. I 
appreciate how upsetting  this has been for Mr G. But thats in line with the sort of award  this 
service would normally make in these circumstances. And I wont  be asking the bank  to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9071430