K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains Skyfire  Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) unfairly refused his motor 
insurance theft claim.
background
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019.  Ive attached a copy.  It forms part of this 
final decision. In it I said why I intended to decide  that Skyfire  should pay Mr Ms claim. I also 
asked for any further information Mr M or Skyfire would like me to look at before I made a 
final decision. Skyfire  responded to say it would pay the claim in line with what Id outlined  in 
my provisional decision. Mr M accepted its findings.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr M and Skyfire accepted my thoughts on how this complaint should be resolved. So 
Ive no reason to change  my mind. That means Skyfire will need  to settle Mr Ms claim in the 
way I outlined in my provisional decision.    
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Skyfire Insurance Company Limited needs to pay Mr M the 
market value of a car of the same  model,  specification and condition of the one stolen and 
with an unblemished history  (less  any policy excess). It can deduct  the value of any 
premiums returned to Mr M. It will need  to add simple interest at 8%, to what its due to pay 
Mr M, from the date of the theft to the date of settlement*.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
*HM Revenue & Customs may require  Skyfire to take off tax from this interest. If Mr M asks for one Skyfire  must give him a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
Ref: DRN94685322PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains Skyfire  Insurance Company  Limited (Skyfire) unfairly  refused his motor insurance  
theft claim.
background
In September 2017 Mr M bought a used car. It was stolen about  two months later. So he claimed on 
his Skyfire motor insurance policy.  It investigated the claim and discovered  the car was a clone. That 
means it was a car that had been stolen and then made to look like another car of a similar model by 
using its registration and vehicle identification number  (VIN). So Skyfire refused to pay the claim. 
Skyfire accepted  Mr M had gone to some lengths to verify the authenticity of the car before buying it. 
But it said it was never actually  his. So he didnt  have an insurable interest in it. It said at some point 
the car would  have been  identified as a clone  and returned to its actual owner. And it said Mr M was 
the victim  of deception at purchase by being sold stolen property. It added that his policy  specifically 
excludes loss by deception.  
Our investigator said it wasnt reasonable for Skyfire  to rely on the policys loss through  deception  or 
fraud clause.  She said the loss of the car wasnt through deception or fraud. And she said Mr M had 
bought the car in good  faith and had taken reasonable  steps to confirm  its authenticity. So she felt 
Skyfire should pay him the full market value of the car less any policy  excess. Mr M accepted that but 
Skyfire didnt. It made a number of points. Ive responded  to these, where  I think  necessary, below.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend to decide  that Skyfire  will need to pay Mr 
Ms claim.
Its accepted Mr M bought a cloned car. This means it was stolen  and didnt  legally belong  to the 
person who sold it to him. As a result it seems Mr M didnt  legally  own the car. His policy  does cover 
him for theft but only of cars he lawfully  owns and so has an insurable interest in. I accept  Skyfires 
point that as Mr M didnt own the car he didnt technically have an insurable interest in it. 
But sometimes in these situations, depending on the circumstances, this service decides  it would be 
fair and reasonable for an insurer to pay the claim.  We usually only decide  this where  a policyholder 
took all reasonable steps when buying  the car to make sure it was genuine. I think Mr M did that, so 
Skyfire will need to pay the claim.
  
I wont go into detail about every step Mr M took. Ill outline the significant ones.  There are a few 
matters that perhaps  could  have  raised concern for Mr M. Ill also outline  them. And explain why, 
despite those, that overall he took all reasonable steps to make sure the car was genuine.
Before travelling to view and buy the car Mr M requested, and was provided, photos of its registration 
document. The registration  number on it matched that on photos  of the car. He used it to do a HPI 
check. Ive seen the results. I cant see anything that should have concerned Mr M. And the market 
valuation the HPI provided was in line with what  he had agreed to pay. So he wasnt buying the car 
for a suspiciously low price. Mr M was also provided  with a service history for the car. He says the 
manufacturer confirmed to him that it was genuine.     
When he travelled to view the car he says he went to the address on the cars registration. He 
checked the sellers driving licence. The photo matched. The name and address matched those  on 
the registration and the location of the sale.  
Ref: DRN94685323Mr M says he checked the VIN on the registration  document matched those on the car. He says he 
checked the VIN on both the windscreen  and the frame by lifting  the bonnet.  Hes provided a car 
buyers/sellers contract signed by himself and the seller. Its a standard receipt  and checklist 
produced by a third party business. A VIN match check is marked as yes, supporting his claim that 
he did the checks.  It also notes the cars mileage. This supports Mr Ms claim that he also checked it 
was in line with that shown on the HPI and service history. And Mr M was given a buyers slip from the 
registration document. 
There are a few things  that perhaps should have concerned Mr M.  He didnt actually  go in the sellers 
house. The seller told him it wasnt possible  as he had guests. But he did see the seller go into the 
property to get the cars documents. The account Mr M paid the majority of the payment for the car 
into wasnt in the sellers name. The seller told Mr M it was his wifes and was being  used for tax 
purposes. The seller also refused to allow Mr M to take a photo  of his driving  licence. Privacy  was the 
reason given. 
Also only one key was provided with the car. The seller said it came  with only one when hed bought  
it. Lastly the service  history  showed the car was covered by a manufacturer  warranty.  Mr M wasnt 
given anything, like a policy document or certificate, to confirm this. He says he wasnt concerned  as 
his friend in the motor  industry had told him that sort of thing is usually recorded online now. 
Perhaps all these issues should  have made Mr M concerned about the sale. But each of them  had an 
explanation. Some perhaps werent completely reassuring,  but they were mostly plausible. And Mr M 
had been given what must have seemed like genuine documentation.  Hed undertaken thorough 
checks. They  hadnt caused  him any reason for concern. So overall  he took all reasonable steps to 
ensure the authenticity of the car.                  
Skyfire has drawn  attention  to the fact Mr M bought the car through an auction website.  It hasnt 
explained why that fact is significant.  I dont think in itself that was reason  for concern. It seems likely  
that many genuine vehicles are sold each  year through the website.
Mr Ms policy excludes loss through  deception  or fraud.  But I agree  with the investigator that Skyfire 
cant fairly rely on that to refuse the claim.  Mr M did buy a cloned car. But as Skyfire has pointed  out 
the fraud and deception took place before  he asked it to insure the car. And he isnt claiming for the 
loss of the money he used to pay for it. The loss hes claiming for is the theft of that car a few months 
later. Its possible that was a later step in the same fraud or deception. Although it isnt known who 
stole the car from Mr M. But even if was stolen back by the person that sold it to him, I still wouldnt 
say it was fair and reasonable  for Skyfire to apply the exclusion. Thats because Mr M bought the car 
in good faith and took all reasonable steps to ensure it was genuine.      
 
According to Skyfire  it was inevitable that the cloning would have been  revealed at some point, 
probably during its next MOT. The car would then have been returned to its true owner. So, Skyfire 
says, Mr M would always have found himself out of pocket for what hed spent  on the car. I accept  
that might have happened.  But ultimately it accepted the risk by taking Mr Ms premium. And an 
insured event happened, the theft, so I think its fair and reasonable for Skyfire to meet Mr Ms claim.    
Skyfire has said its possible  police investigations might result in some  of Mr Ms payment to the seller 
being returned to him. If that happened and it paid his claim hed be better  off a result  of the theft. But 
from what Ive seen  it seems unlikely any of that money will be returned to him. And  if it was, I think 
hed be obliged to pass this on to Skyfire. 
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Skyfire  to meet  Mr Ms claim by 
paying him the market  value of a car of the same model, specification and condition  of the one stolen 
and with an unblemished history - less any policy  excess. Skyfire can also deduct the value of any 
premiums returned to Mr M. It will need to add simple  interest at 8% to what it pays  him from the date 
of the theft to the date of settlement.   
Ref: DRN94685324my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to decide that Skyfire  Insurance  Company Limited  will need to 
settle Mr Ms claim as outlined above. 
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9468532