K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained Nationwide Building Society wont refund  disputed transactions  he 
didnt carry out.
background
Between July and November 2016, £2,100 was withdrawn from one of Mr Fs Nationwide 
accounts  his savings account  using various cash machines and his card. Mr F was not in 
a position to have made  these himself having started a custodial sentence on 19 July 2016.  
When he found out what had happened, he complained to Nationwide and asked for his 
money back.
Nationwide wouldnt refund him. They  felt either  hed allowed somebody  else to make  the 
withdrawals; or had been grossly negligent  with his card and PIN; and that hed have to take 
responsibility for his own losses.
Mr F didnt  agree and brought  his complaint to our service. He believed somebody had got 
hold of his card and PIN after hed gone  to prison, most likely his ex-partner, and had 
cleaned out his account. He said he hadnt  authorised the withdrawals. Neither  had he been 
grossly negligent  with his card and PIN. Whilst he may have left them in a rented room  
which hadnt been locked  hed not been in a position to sort out his finances before hed 
started his prison  sentence.
Our investigator felt this was a finely-balanced case, but he tended to believe Mr Fs version 
of events and upheld the complaint. Nationwide vigorously opposed  this, making further  
submissions. But these didnt change his mind.
Nationwide asked for an ombudsmans review.
An ombudsman completed a provisional decision on 6 August 2020. She didnt believe, 
based on the evidence, it was clear  that Mr F hadnt authorised the transactions. She also 
felt Mr F may have  been  grossly negligent  in not making his card and PIN safe when  he 
knew there was a possibility he could go to prison.
No comments were  received from Mr F in response  to this provisional decision.  Nationwide 
only noted theyd  received  it.
As the ombudsman who completed the provisional decision was not able to complete  a final 
decision, I reviewed  the complaint and completed a further provisional decision on 
12 November 2020 before coming  to my final opinion.
I also rejected Mr Fs complaint and laid out my reasoning in detail.  Neither Nationwide nor 
Mr F commented further.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN98910472Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.  I 
received no further  comments so my arguments  follow the same line as those.
Im not going  to cover all the points raised in previous  views  and decisions  in detail. The 
views of 4 December 2019 and 13 February 2020  explain  the regulations which  guide  how 
we review these cases. My colleague also covered some of these issues  in her provisional  
decision.
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think  are the key issues  
here and which impact the decision Im making. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
I can reassure both parties that Ive considered all the submissions  carefully.  
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. Again our rules allow  me to do this.
disputed transactions
Mr F has told us he didnt  know about, or authorised, the transactions. 
Theres no dispute Mr F couldnt have made the transactions but I agree  that the evidence 
isnt clear that he didnt  authorise these. The transactions after 19 July 2016  follow  quite a 
similar pattern  to those made  before Mr F was sentenced. These are all withdrawals  using 
cash machines for varying amounts. 
There was nothing to stop Mr F realising  that he hadnt secured his card and accounts and 
ask Nationwide  to limit use of his account.  But the use of his account doesnt  suggest this 
was a concern  for whoever was using it. For example,  the money didnt disappear  within a 
few days.
I appreciate Mr F has told us he was informed  his ex-partner located his card and PIN in his 
rented room when  he believed  she was helping secure his belongings. But I cant know  for 
sure whether  he allowed his partner  to withdraw  his cash and keep that secure  or even  
allowed her to use the money.  Im not aware of details of their relationship only that it was 
some time later they broke  up and his partner stopped visiting him. Its possible that its only 
at this stage Mr F decided hed made a mistake in allowing her to use his account and 
wanted that money back.
Theres no conclusive evidence here. I have to decide what  I feel is the most  likely version  of 
events. And I think its less likely  given what we know   that Mr F had no knowledge or 
involvement at all about the transactions  and more likely that he consented to them.
gross negligence or with intent?
Mr F has told us he didnt  expect to be sentenced so had taken no steps to secure his card 
and PIN. I find this surprising as other  evidence from Nationwide shows  just shortly before 
this Mr F had taken steps to open another account  with Nationwide  and set up online 
banking. This seems to me like he may well have been preparing for what may happen once 
hed been sentenced. From  that information  I surmise Mr Fs wasnt  a massively  careless  
Ref: DRN98910473individual. Hes also told us his financial information  was kept together and sounds well-
managed.
Nationwide has pursued some interesting  arguments about how keeping items in a rented 
room without the door being locked may constitute  gross negligence. I dont agree with the 
points they make.
The bar for gross  negligence is a high one and wed expect to see examples of extreme 
carelessness. Im aware my colleague  felt that was how Mr F may have acted by not 
securing his card and PIN but Im not sure I agree with that assessment.
However I dont need to make a decision about whether Mr F acted in a grossly  negligent  
manner as I think theres enough  to suggest he allowed  his ex-partner to use his account 
and knew about  the withdrawals.
On that basis it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable to ask Nationwide to refund the £2,100  
withdrawn from Mr Fs savings account  from July to November 2016.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Fs complaint against  
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9891047