K820x#14Complaint
Miss K complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC unfairly blocked her accounts. She says this 
caused significant distress and inconvenience. She wants  Barclays  to provide an 
explanation for its actions.  And pay compensation for the trouble and upset shes  suffered.
Background
Miss K had a current and student account with Barclays.
In April 2019, Barclays completed a review  of Miss Ks accounts. Whilst it completed its 
review it blocked both accounts.  This meant Miss K couldnt access any money in the 
accounts. Barclays removed the blocks from the accounts in October 2019 and Miss K was 
able to withdraw her funds.
Miss K says as a result  of the blocks she struggled to go to work and pay her bills. She also 
says she suffered a great deal of stress and anxiety.  
Miss K complained to Barclays. It said its not obliged to enter any discussion with 
Miss K to explain its decision to block her accounts. And says it acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of Miss Ks accounts. Unhappy with this response Miss K brought  her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained Barclays werent  required to provide their reasons for the block of 
her accounts. He was satisfied Barclays had acted fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the accounts. And that Barclays had followed its legal and regulatory  
obligations when  it blocked and reviewed  the accounts. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss K disagreed. Shes still upset  that Barclays blocked her accounts and wants to know  
why. She says this caused her a great deal of anxiety  and inconvenience.  She wants 
Barclays to provide a full explanation, apologise  and pay her compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the block of Miss Ks accounts. Anti-money 
laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on regulated  financial 
businesses to have  suitable systems in place for customer identification. Financial 
institutions must also establish the purpose and intended nature of a business as well as the 
origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and 
existing relationships Barclays has said that Miss Ks accounts were blocked  to meet these  
legal requirements.
Miss K says she hasnt  done anything which would cause Barclays  to block her accounts.  
And cant understand why Barclays blocked  her accounts. But as Ive already explained 
businesses have a legal  obligation  to comply with various laws and regulations. The terms 
and conditions that apply to Miss Ks accounts  also outline the circumstances in which 
Barclays can block an account.  And having  considered those terms carefully,  and the 
Ref: DRN96452122circumstances of this case,  Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with them.  So, I cant  say 
Barclays did anything wrong when it blocked  Miss Ks accounts.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Miss K feels about whats happened,  and I dont doubt 
it was a frustrating and upsetting time for her. But overall, based  on the evidence I have, I 
cant say Barclays have  acted unreasonably  and treated Miss K unfairly when it blocked her 
accounts. So, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9645212