K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS)  has refused  to pay for damage 
to her kitchen cabinets following a water  leak in her home.
For ease of reading, any reference to CIS includes its agents.
background
In February 2018  Ms Ms property suffered a water  leak from the bathroom. This caused  
damage to the several other rooms including the kitchen when water came  through  the 
ceiling. Ms M arranged for a plumber to fix the leak but made  a claim to CIS for the damage 
caused to her property.  CIS arranged for drying  equipment to be placed in her home  before  
a loss adjuster  was sent to look at the damage. 
Ms M said her kitchen  units had been damaged by the water leak  she referred to 
discolouration of a unit door and cracking  in the wood.  CIS declined the claim for the units,  
saying that the damage wasnt consistent  with the escape of water claim as the unit and the 
remainder of the door were unaffected. It also said there wasnt evidence  that the tops of the 
units had been  damaged.  
Ms M then told CIS she believed the cracking  could have been  caused by the drying 
equipment used. But CIS said there  was no other drying damage evident in the kitchen and 
no reason for the equipment to cause the door to swell and crack if it wasnt  affected in the 
initial escape of water. 
 
Unhappy with this response Ms M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt agree 
that CIS should  pay for the kitchen units. She said the leak didnt appear to be in the location 
of the units. And the tops of the units hadnt been affected by the leak. She also found that it 
was unlikely that the damage to the units would have been  caused by the dehumidifiers.  
Ms M didnt agree with our investigator, so the case has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms policy says it will provide cover  for loss of damage to her property  caused  by an 
escape of water from any fixed water or heating system or fixed  domestic  appliance. CIS 
agrees that Ms Ms property suffered an escape of water from the bathroom, which  then 
came through into her kitchen. But it says the damage to the kitchen units  hasnt been 
caused by this event. So, I need  to decide  if CIS has fairly applied  its terms when  declining  
Ms Ms claim for the kitchen units.
There are several photographs which have been  taken of Ms Ms home following the water 
leak. Ive looked  at those showing the kitchen and I can see water marks on the ceiling  
showing where the water travelled - but these marks dont go across to the kitchen units. 
This would indicate  that the leak didnt  reach  this area. And if water was leaking through the 
ceiling, I would expect  to see damage at the top of the units  as the water  dripped down. But 
Ive seen pictures of the tops of the units and these  dont show any signs of water damage.  
Ref: DRN91428192Based on what Ive seen,  Im not persuaded these units were  damaged  as a result of the 
escape of water. 
Ms M subsequently  told CIS the damage  was caused by the drying equipment  used by its 
contractors. CIS disputes this, saying the nature and purpose of the drying  equipment 
means this isnt possible. If the units were damaged by the drying equipment,  CIS should  
consider this part of her claim. Ive thought about this point  very carefully  and I find, on 
balance, CIS comments to be more persuasive.  I think its unlikely such equipment would be 
used by an insurer if it was going to cause  more damage to the property and therefore 
increase the costs of the repair. And if the equipment did cause the damage,  I think its more 
likely it would have impacted the whole  kitchen - not just localised  damage to some of the 
wall unit doors.  Im not satisfied this damage  was caused by the drying equipment.
So, when taking  everything Ive seen and been told into account, Im think  CIS has declined  
Ms Ms claim fairly under the policy. And Im not persuaded  that the units were  damaged  
during the drying of her home.  
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms M but for the reasons  mentioned above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9142819