K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that City of Westminster Assurance Company Limited wrongly advised him 
to transfer his pension from his occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension  
arrangement. He thinks the compensation he was subsequently offered as part of the 
pension review didnt  take into account the increased value that his occupational pension  
scheme would  have provided  if hed stayed in it.  
background
Mr R was advised to transfer out of his former employers OPS in November 1988. This 
advice was subsequently subject to the regulators industry wide pension review and was 
investigated by the firm. The firm found that Mr R had lost out as a result of the advice it had 
given to transfer. And it made an offer of compensation of £32,780 to Mr R which  he 
accepted in 1999.
Mr R complained to the firm in March  2019. In brief, he set out the background to the advice 
hed been given to transfer and the events  since. He said hed been encouraged to transfer  
when he was approached by an adviser  promising cashback if he did  which never  
materialised. He said hed taken  the benefits  from the personal  pension when he was around 
55, as his financial circumstances had drastically changed at that time. He took 25% of his 
pension in tax free cash and an annuity paying £195.10 per month for life. He said this 
payment didnt change - it was the same  amount each  month  every  year,  didnt have any 
bonuses or yearly increases. He said the compensation  he had been paid wasnt  sufficient, 
as if he had stayed  in his occupational pension scheme it would have  given Pension  Annual 
Income increases. 
The firm didnt uphold his complaint and Mr R referred it to us. One of our investigators  
looked into Mr Rs complaint. Her view was that the firm had already calculated  the loss that 
Mr R had suffered as a result of the advice to transfer and paid compensation  in line with 
those calculations. She explained that the firm had been required to review  the advice  as 
part of the regulators  industry wide pension review.  She thought the firm had met its 
obligations under  the review and had done what was expected of it. In the circumstances, 
she didnt think the firm needed to review the matter again. 
Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings.  He said he had calculated what the transfer  
value he had been paid should  have been worth  using the growth rates  shown in the 
illustrations he was given  at the time he was advised to transfer. He said at the 9% rate the 
£11,000 transfer value should  have been around £33,000 by 1999. So the money  he was 
paid as compensation was the money that was his in the first place  the amount  his pension 
fund should already have  had in it. He said his OPS benefits were  transferred illegally   if he 
hadnt been offered a cashback he wouldnt  have  transferred his benefits; whilst  his funds 
were invested they never gained in value  and the firm should compensate him correctly.    
Mr R asked for his complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman  to investigate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice Mr R was given to transfer  his pension  was reviewed  as part of the regulators  
industry wide pension  review. This review was initiated by the regulator  because it feared 
Ref: DRN95685132that investors had been given advice which didnt meet  the required standards  at the time. 
Where it was decided that unsuitable  advice had been given firms  had to calculate  whether 
this had caused a financial loss. The firm carried out one of these calculations and found that 
Mr R had lost out financially as a result  of the transfer. It offered him compensation which    
Mr R accepted. 
The aim of the calculation  and compensation was to make a payment that was thought  to be 
enough to increase the value of the personal pension  to provide about the same level of 
benefits as the former OPS at its normal  retirement  age. The intention was that with the 
redress, Mr R would  receive around the same benefits as the OPS  would have paid from 
that age. But the problem  was that for many people there was a long period to retirement  
date. So the calculations were based on a number of assumptions  that were  necessary 
because of this. The then regulator set down how the calculation  needed to be run and the 
assumptions that all firms  had to use to assess the potential  loss incurred.
As explained by the investigator, unfortunately the assumptions used havent  always  
mirrored the subsequent reality of the situation.  And in some cases  this has had a significant 
impact on the benefits provided by personal  pensions. So although  Mr Rs personal pension  
value was increased by the £32,780  compensation - with the intention  for it to match the 
benefits he wouldve  received from his OPS  - circumstances  have moved on and it may not 
be the case for Mr R.
Mr R may question  why firms werent required to look at the position at retirement  date. But if 
the regulator had said that firms  should wait until an individual actually reached retirement 
age (which in some  cases could be 20/30 years or more), many people  would  have been  
denied any redress at all (where a loss was found at the time) because the firm concerned  
may have  ceased  to exist. 
Mr R is particularly concerned about  the circumstances behind the advice to transfer and 
that he was encouraged to transfer with a promise of a cashback. However, although Mr R 
may have  been  misled  about a cashback  and wrongly advised to transfer out of his OPS, the 
regulators guidance set out how a firm needed to calculate the losses members had 
suffered by transferring. The guidance was designed to cover  most circumstances and I 
think it was reasonable  for the firm to follow the guidance in Mr Rs circumstances. 
Mr R is also concerned that his pension isnt increasing each year  whereas  if he had 
stayed in the OPS  it would have done.  There are two key points here. These  yearly  
increases come at a cost. When the firm calculated that he had lost out by £32,780 this took 
into account the cost of these yearly increases  albeit they were paid to Mr R as a lump  
sum into his personal  pension as part of this compensation.  And when he took his benefits at 
age 55 he would likely have had the option to have a pension  that increased each year in 
payment. But as I say, this costs. So the money that was left over after he had taken the 
25% tax free cash  could have been used to buy a different  type of annuity   for example, 
one that started  at a lower level  less than the £195  per month - but that increased each 
year. However, by starting  off with a lower annuity it would have taken several  years  of 
increases before it reached the £195  per month  Mr R had paid to him from the off.
Mr R had transferred his plan to another pension provider by the time that City of 
Westminster did its review  in 1998/99.  He has said that by the time of that review his transfer  
value had hardly grown, and nothing like in line with the growth  rates he had been  given  at 
Ref: DRN95685133the time he transferred. However Mr R had transferred to a different pension provider by the 
time the firm completed its review,  and City of Westminster wasnt responsible for that 
pension providers performance (I understand Mr R has complained to that pension  firm 
about it).
The firm was required to carry out the pensions review by the regulator  and the aim was 
effectively to draw a line under any pension mis-selling and put matters right, if need be, at 
that time.  The pension review  was a one-off exercise and the firm carried out the review it 
was required to. Its offer was accepted  by Mr R in full and final settlement.  And Ive not seen 
anything to persuade me that it wasnt reviewed  in line with the relevant requirements. 
I realise that my findings will be very disappointing  to Mr R. But overall, given  that the firm 
complied with the regulators requirements  when  it investigated the transaction, I dont think 
it would  be appropriate  for me to order the firm to revisit the matter again  now.
my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I do not consider its appropriate  to make any further  
award in Mr Rs favour in the particular circumstances of this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.  
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9568513