K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a critical illness and life insurance policy  taken out with a hire 
purchase agreement  in 2005.  Ms H says that Toyota Tsusho Automobile North London Ltd 
mis-sold her the policy. Ill refer to the business  as Toyota in my decision. Ms H also took 
out Key protection  at the same  time,  but its not considered as part of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that this policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Ms H says that she was pressured into taking the insurance. But the evidence Ive 
seen doesnt support  what  shes  said. 
For example, it seems that there  were  options  for the level of cover  that Ms H 
selected - life, accidental  death and critical illness and there were also other options 
to include accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  Ms H has signed in a section 
confirming her level of cover that includes the statement I have been advised of 
the 5 different possible levels of cover available with this policy  and chosen the level 
shown below:
The copy  of Ms Hs demands and needs  statement provided isnt the clearest, so Ive 
considered it alongside  a much clearer example copy that Toyota have said is 
representative of what Ms H would have seen.  Underneath the section where  Ms H 
has signed to agree to the level of cover,  there was another option  to sign a 
statement confirming that she didnt want insurance. This has been left blank.
Ive carefully considered  Ms Hs recollection of the sale and the sales  environment, 
including what shes told us about  having her children with her and wanting to finish 
everything and be done.  Although I dont know what was discussed at the time of 
sale, I havent seen  evidence that Ms H was pressured into taking out the insurance. 
In any case, what  feels  like pressure  to one person may not to another.  As this was a 
sale where Toyota were  making a recommendation to take insurance,  its possible 
that they said that Ms H should take the insurance,  but this is very different to them 
saying that she had to take the insurance.
Ive also noted  that on the credit agreement it states  near where Ms H has signed  
separately for the insurance, The recommended  insurance is optional. 
Overall, I think its more  likely than not that Ms H was made aware  that the insurance 
was optional and she chose to take out this level of cover.
Ive considered that Toyota made a recommendation  to take the insurance  and this is 
supported by the paperwork from the sale. This means that they had to take 
reasonable steps to check that the policy was right for Ms H. And based on what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. 
Ref: DRN92176122Ms H has said that she doesnt  think the cover was right for her as she had some 
existing insurance  in place. Ms H has also shown us some  policy  documents to 
support what shes said. 
On the point of sale documents,  Ms H has signed to agree  to take out the insurance 
next to a statement that includes; I am not aware of any other insurance policy  that 
I currently have that makes this policy unsuitable, and I am aware of my obligation to 
provide all relevant  information at the point of selecting this cover.  
Whilst Ms H has shown  us policy terms for two other  policies she says she had, this 
policy didnt cover accident, sickness or unemployment  so the income  protection 
policy is irrelevant to my decision. 
But in fairness to Ms H, despite her signing the declaration that she didnt have any 
other policies in place, I have  considered  the critical illness policy  she says she had. 
Based on the paperwork  shes provided, the maximum benefit that her existing 
critical illness policy could have provided was much less than the new borrowing    
Ms H was taking on and the new critical illness policy could have paid off the 
outstanding balance in the event of Ms H being diagnosed with a critical illness. 
Ive also then considered Ms Hs circumstances, including what shes said about 
having dependants, and I still think that the cover could have been useful if she was 
to be diagnosed with a critical illness or in the unfortunate  event  of her death.
So on balance, I think that the recommendation to take the insurance was suitable 
and it was right for Ms H.
Its possible the information Toyota  gave Ms H about the policy wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of
cover. And for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  better
information about it wouldve put her off taking out the cover.
The cost of the insurance was shown  including the amount of the premium,  the 
total amount payable  including  interest  and the total cost. So I think  Ms H would have 
understood how much the insurance would  cost if she kept the policy for its full term.
Ms H wouldve  got back only a limited refund of the insurance premium if she 
cancelled the policy early. I dont know if Toyota thought about this when it 
recommended the policy, or if it explained the situation clearly to Ms H. But I havent 
seen anything to suggest she thought shed repay  the loan early.  
So I dont  think this meant the policy  wasnt right for her  or that better information 
about this wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ive also considered what Ms H has said about the policy  meaning  the borrowing was 
unaffordable. Ive not seen evidence to support what Ms H has said and the 
statements provided by her predate the sale by 9 months.
So I dont  think that the policy was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN92176123my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9217612