K820x#14complaint
Mr S, a director  of a limited company, N, has complained about Ns commercial  property  
insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited. Mr S thinks Aviva  should have settled for the full cost 
claimed for stolen cigarettes and money  in the safe.
background
Ns shop premises were  broken into during the night between Christmas  day and Boxing day 
2018. N made a claim to Aviva and settlements for various elements of the claim were 
made. But N wasnt happy with what Aviva  said regarding cigarettes and cash.
N had claimed for £12,381 of cigarettes and presented  an invoice to show a purchase in that 
sum. Mr S said that purchase had then fully stocked the cigarette gantry, which the thieves 
had then stripped,  taking  its entire  contents.  Avivas loss adjuster said it wasnt persuaded 
that the gantry could have held that many cigarettes. Aviva said it would pay £10,000 in 
settlement against  the claim for £12,381. Mr S felt that was unfair, that it should pay it all.
Regarding cash,  N claimed for the float for the till at £450 and £5,900 of cash which  Mr S 
said was in the safe (which was stolen). Aviva settled the claim for the float but said it 
wouldnt pay anything against the claim for cash. Whilst Mr S had produced  a hand-written 
note in a diary (which  was otherwise  blank)  which was said to be the record  of the money in 
the safe, Aviva wasnt persuaded  this was a good  enough log to meet the policy  requirement 
to keep a complete record of Money. But Aviva also looked  at the average takings for the 
shop, also noting  that £4,500 was banked on 20 December 2018 and a further £4,000 was 
banked on 24 December  2018. Having done so, it wasnt  persuaded to make any settlement 
for this aspect of the claim. However,  Aviva said if there was other evidence, such  as a full 
ledger showing  cash takings etc, it would consider that.
Aviva made payments to N for the claim costs  it accepted were  due. Mr S, on behalf of N, 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator felt Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably. He wasnt  minded  to make Aviva  
pay any further settlement  to N. 
A representative for Mr S and N said the shop had been open on Christmas day with 
clientele using it as normal. But also that the shop  was very busy that day because it was the 
only one in the area open. The representative noted that the investigator had agreed the 
term requiring N to keep  a complete record of Money was ambiguous so he felt this meant  
we must construe  it in favour of N.
Our investigator clarified that he felt hed addressed that point already. In his view, given a 
reasonable reading of the term,  Mr Ss record had not been  a complete one. 
The complaint was passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN97089292I appreciate that Mr S would like Ns claim to be settled more fully. But having considered 
everything, I think Avivas  settlement is fair and reasonable.
An invoice for stock purchased does not, in itself, show  what stock was stolen. The loss 
adjuster clearly wasnt satisfied that as much stock  as claimed for could have fitted  in the 
gantry where  it was all meant to have been taken from. Ive not seen anything to challenge 
that or make me think his conclusion has been  reached unreasonably. Avivas settlement 
covers most of the claimed  cigarette stock. I think it acted fairly in making  that settlement 
and Im not going  to make  it pay anything more.
Aviva clearly  has concerns about  the claim  for cash from the safe.  But proving a loss such  
as this does tend to be difficult and that is likely why Aviva has chosen to include a term 
requiring proper records of such are kept.  The term in question  is:
You shall keep a complete record of Money in a secure place other than in a safe or
strong room containing  Money.
I do agree  the term could  be more prescriptive. But it is not unusual  for policy  terms to be 
quite basic. I also dont  think  its unreasonable to say that an average person reading that 
would think they have to record all money. Here  Mr S made just a single entry in an 
otherwise blank diary. He recorded that he put sixty £50 notes in the safe along with one 
hundred and twenty £20 notes and fifty £10 notes. That seems a lot given the general 
takings and what was banked in the few days before. Whilst Mr S and his representative 
suggest more  money  was taken than normal on 25 December 2018 as other  shops were 
shut, Id have expected increased trading to generate more smaller denomination  money  
than larger. I can understand why Aviva felt it necessary on this occasion to say that the 
record kept by Mr S/N was incomplete and that it was seeking to rely on the policy term to 
decline this part of Ns claim. Given everything  Ive seen  I think  it acted fairly and reasonably.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Aviva  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9708929