K820x#14complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has dealt with a theft claim 
under her home insurance  policy. She thinks AXA has unfairly handled the claim by insisting 
on a face to face recorded interview.
background
Mrs D has a home insurance policy with AXA. Her husband, Mr D, has been managing the 
policy and made  a claim for several  thousand pounds  worth of items hes told us were stolen 
from their car in 2017.
AXA has said that it will not consider the claim further unless Mr D provides a statement to 
its claims investigator in a face to face recorded interview. 
Mr D thinks this is unfair and contradicts what he was told previously by AXA about email 
communications being sufficient for AXA to process  the claim. He thinks  hes being singled 
out despite providing police crime reference  details.
One of our investigators  looked at the evidence and didnt think  the complaint  should be 
upheld. He thought AXA acted reasonably in asking  for a recorded  interview.   
Mr D, on behalf of Mrs D, has now asked an ombudsman to make a final decision on this 
matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr D feels  strongly that AXA is demanding more  of him than others. And I accept  
he reported the theft to the police.  But, I dont think its unreasonable  for AXA to ask Mr D to 
provide a recorded interview. He has made a claim for a significant sum of money  and there 
is an onus on him (and Mrs D) to establish that theyve  suffered  a loss that is recoverable 
under the policy.  Given the circumstances of this claim, I think it is fair and reasonable for 
AXA to ask Mr C to comply with its request for an interview to find out more about  the 
circumstances of the incident.  This isnt an unusual request in these circumstances and 
theres no evidence  that AXA has singled him out.
I appreciate that Mr D is busy and has a family  to help look after. But its clearly  possible for 
a suitable time for the interview to take place to be arranged. 
Im also not persuaded that Mr D was led to believe that email  communications  would be 
sufficient to progress  the claim. In any event, as our investigator has said, even if that were  
the case initially, it would still be fair for AXA to ask for an interview  now.
So, I dont think Mr D can be said to be reasonably co-operating with AXA in its investigation  
in a manner sufficient to show hes proved the claim.  As such, I dont uphold this complaint.
AXA has said that it is still willing to investigate the claim further if Mr D decides to take part 
in the interview.  So, Mr D should  consider whether he now wants to do this.
Ref: DRN90507572my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Abdul Hafez
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9050757