K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  do enough to prevent him becoming the 
victim of a scam and losing £37,500.
HSBC say theyre not liable for the loss because Mr B authorised  the payments and they 
had no reason to suspect  there was an issue.
background
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision,  much of which is copied below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
1.It is common ground that Mr B authorised  the scam payments totalling £47,500 
(£10,000 of which was credited back into his account).  At the time he believed he 
was making genuine  investments with a firm Ill refer to as C. Mr B responded to an 
email inviting him to invest, he was taken through an account  opening  process and 
then sent several payments to C to fund his investment.  When  Mr B tried to make  a 
withdrawal of his funds he was told that Cs accounts had been seized by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and that hed need to pay a fee to release the 
funds. Mr B contacted  the FCA and found that what hed been  told was incorrect and 
realised hed been the victim  of a scam. The FCA published a warning about C on 
their website  in February 2018.  As a result of the scam  the following  transactions  
took place on his HSBC account (including  one credit back  into his account from C). 
All the payments were  made  through Mr Bs online  banking.
1.£1,000 payment on 18 September 2017;
2.£9,000 payment on 21 September 2017;
3.£15,000 payment  on 26 September 2017;
4.£10,000 credit from C on 5 October  2017;
5.£10,000 payment  on 5 October  2017;
6.£10,000 payment  on 9 October  2017;
7.£2,500 payment on 13 November 2017.
2.I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr B was the victim of a 
scam. He provided valid instructions  through his online banking.  So, although he 
didnt intend to pay the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009 
(PSRs)  then in force, and the terms of his account, Mr B is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance.
3.However, taking account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice  at the time, I consider it would have  been  fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to have:
Monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Maintained systems  to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators  that their customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things),  
particularly given  the increase in sophisticated fraud  and scams  in recent years,  
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
Ref: DRN92816622Taken additional steps or made additional checks  in some circumstances 
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing the payment; or in 
some cases, to have  declined to make a payment altogether  in order  to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial  harm  from fraud.
4.Ive looked  carefully  at Mr Bs account history  to establish what the usual activity was. 
The account  appears to have had limited use prior to a significant credit  to the 
account of around £16,000 at the end of July 2017. Ive thought about the first 
payment of £1,000 and whether this was sufficiently  unusual to mean that HSBC 
ought to have intervened. Its likely this payment was to a new payee  and it was for 
several hundred  pounds  more  than other recent  transactions on the account. But Im 
not persuaded HSBC could reasonably be expected to have had concerns that Mr B 
was at risk of financial harm on the basis of that payment instruction. This is 
particularly the case given the context  of the payment, including  the account balance  
and the fact that there was no direct  interaction between HSBCs staff and Mr B 
when making the payment. HSBC have  obligations to prevent fraud, but they also 
cant be involved in every transaction.
5.However, when looking at the second payment for £9,000 which  took place on 21 
September 2017, I think this ought to have prompted some  action from HSBC. I say 
this for the following  reasons:
The payment  was for an unusually large amount;
The payment  represented  a sudden  and uncharacteristic increase  in 
spending from the account. 
In combination with the £1,000 payment  from three  days  earlier the combined 
value of payments  was for £10,000.  A series  of payments of increasing value 
is often a common feature of scams.  
The payment  went  to a business who specialise in providing pre-paid cards. 
6.Mr B has highlighted that on numerous occasions online card payments hes made 
have been blocked  due to security concerns. He feels that as these were for far 
smaller amounts, it makes no sense that HSBC allowed such  large  payments to be 
made through his online banking. Ive considered this, and whilst banks have 
obligations to be alert to fraud  across all payment channels,  I dont think  the fact that 
some card payments  were stopped, automatically means the online banking  
payments ought to have been too. HSBCs systems will take account  of a variety  of 
factors specific to each  transaction.  
7.Ultimately,  its a matter for HSBC and/or the regulator as to how they choose to 
configure their fraud detection systems given the balance  between  the duty of care 
towards clients and the duty to execute instructions without  undue  delay.  HSBC  have 
pointed out to our service that most customers, from time to time,  do make payments 
that are larger than their regular  expenditure. So, they say its not reasonable to 
expect them to have  intervened in what they consider to be relatively modest  
payments, particularly where  there  was no interaction with their staff.  Ive considered 
this, but on the facts  and evidence before me, I am satisfied that HSBC could and 
should reasonably have made additional  checks with Mr B before they let the second 
payment through. There were enough triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic activity 
such that, in my view,  a prudent and professional banker could and should have 
realised that something didnt  look quite right  and that further enquiries would be 
Ref: DRN92816623appropriate. It was reasonably foreseeable that failing to do so, might result in this 
type of financial  harm. I therefore conclude  that HSBC didnt do enough  to protect 
Mr B from the risk of loss.
8.So, Ive gone  on to consider whether HSBCs  intervention at this point would  have 
made a difference  its essential for any failing to have caused the loss. Here,  if 
HSBC had contacted Mr B, Id have expected them to have asked probing questions  
with the aim of uncovering  a potential scam and not necessarily to have taken 
his answers at face value (because  banks  know that victims are often  coached  into 
giving cover stories by scammers). I think Mr B probably would have truthfully 
answered any questions  he was asked. I think its likely he would have explained that 
he was instructing the payment to fund an investment. I think a reasonable question  
for HSBC to have asked  would have been where  Mr B first heard of the investment. 
Its likely  he would have explained  that he found the investment opportunity  in an 
email. In addition to the potential for an investment scam, email interception scams  
were also prevalent at the time (and sadly still are). This is where an email  with a 
genuine invoice  is intercepted and the genuine  account details are replaced by the 
scammers. So another risk was that this was that type of scam. For either of these 
reasons, if HSBC had warned Mr B of the possibility  of this being a scam, I think he 
would have listened and acted upon such a warning. 
9.Its also of note that the first four payments Mr B made went  to an account with a 
business which specialises in providing  pre-paid cards. This is a common  feature of 
scams. HSBC would have  been  presented with Mr B telling them he was making  an 
investment to a legitimate firm but with the payment actually looking like it was going 
to a pre-paid card. This information would  have been available  to HSBC at the time 
and I think it would  be reasonable to expect this to have rung alarm bells with HSBC.  
And had they highlighted this to Mr B, I think it would have resulted in the scam being  
discovered. Mr B would most likely  have  withdrawn his instruction to make the 
payment. I think that, but for HSBCs  failure to ask questions,  the scam probably  
would not have gone any further and would have  limited  Mr Bs loss to the first 
payment. I think it is self-evident that if the second  payment  had been  prevented,  the 
subsequent payments  likewise  wouldnt have  happened. For completeness, Ive 
approached the beneficiary bank to see if discovery  of the scam at the instruction of 
the second payment would have enabled  recovery of the first. But by the time the 
second payment  was made (a few days later), the first had already been  removed 
from the account. So, I dont think HSBC could  reasonably have recovered the first 
payment  even  if everything had gone  as I think it shouldve...  
10.there  were enough triggers of unusual and uncharacteristic  activity with Mr Bs 
instruction to pay £9,000 that HSBC  objectively had reason  to be concerned  that he 
might be at risk of financial harm. Had they intervened, its likely the scam would 
have unravelled, and further loss would not have occurred.
11.In light of my conclusion above, its not necessary in this case  to consider whether  
HSBC also exercised enough care and urgency when trying to recover the stolen 
funds from the beneficiary banks.  For the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think  
HSBC missed an opportunity to recover the initial payment which is the only one Im 
not intending to direct be refunded to Mr B. 
12.I have  also considered whether  Mr B should  bear some responsibility  by way of 
contributory negligence. HSBC have  suggested  he should as he failed to do sufficient 
Ref: DRN92816624due diligence  when  entering into the investment.  However,  it is clear  that when  
making the payments Mr B believed this to be a genuine investment. He was taken 
through an account opening process  which included being requested to provide 
identification and closely follows  that of genuine  firms. He was also provided with 
frequent email  updates as to how the investment was progressing and the trades 
being made on his behalf.  And whilst I accept that Mr B could have done more  
research prior to making his investment I dont think his failure to do so amounts to 
gross negligence  he was the victim  of a sophisticated scam. The documentation  he 
was provided with was convincing.  HSBC  are the finance professionals and Mr B 
was an average consumer with no knowledge  of scams, who has been  cleverly 
duped into sending his funds to the scammer. 
13.In the circumstances,  Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to 
reimburse Mr B for the loss he has suffered from the second payment onwards 
without any reduction,  together with interest  to compensate for being  deprived of the 
money he lost from his account. This amounts to £36,500 which  is the sum of 
transactions two to seven as listed above (and taking account that £10,000 was 
credited to his account by the scammers). I also think it would be fair to make a 
compensation award of £200  for the distress and inconvenience Mr B has suffered. 
In reaching that conclusion, Im mindful  that much of the distress  was caused by the 
criminal act of fraudsters who tricked  him into making the payments  but ultimately 
HSBC could have  prevented much  of this. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, but subject to any further information I receive from either  
Mr B or HSBC  UK Bank, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part and direct HSBC  to 
pay Mr B the following:
£36,500 for the stolen payments (less  any amounts  recovered  (if any) from the payee 
banks and already  reimbursed to Mr B); plus
£200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
HSBC should  pay interest  on this proposed  award of £36,500 at our usual rate of 8% simple 
per year from the date of the respective scam payments to the date of actual refund. Whilst 
no interest is currently payable on the compensation for distress and inconvenience, interest 
will also accrue at that rate on the £200 distress and inconvenience  if it is not paid within 28 
days of HSBC receiving notification of Mr Bs acceptance of my final decision.
If tax is properly deductible on the interest awarded, HSBC  may do this but should  provide 
Mr B with a tax-deduction certificate upon  request.  
HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr B responded and made some further 
points which  Ill address below. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can 
go ahead  with my final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN92816625Mr B says that the credit to his account listed at point four above  wasnt funds sent by C, but 
was his payment  bouncing back through the banking system, he says the beneficiary bank 
changed at that point  for that reason. He says he transferred a total of £47,500  and has 
never had any of it back. 
Im prepared to accept what Mr B has said about the reason for the £10,000 credit to his 
account on 5 October  2017. But irrespective of the reason for the credit,  it was still money  
arriving in his account. Ive carefully  looked at the statement for the relevant time and whilst 
£47,500 was sent in total, the credit back into the account means that Mr Bs loss was 
£37,500. Ive already  explained why I cant fairly ask HSBC  to refund the initial £1,000  
payment. And so Im not persuaded  to deviate  from the outcome explained in my provisional 
decision. 
Mr B also questioned whether the interest award  ought to be subject to tax. This isnt 
something Im making a direction on, and I note that Mr B doesnt live in the UK. My direction 
is that if HSBC say tax is applicable, they may deduct this, but should provide Mr B with a 
certificate to enable him to take this up with HMRC if appropriate. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must  pay Mr B:
£36,500 for the stolen payments (less  any amounts  recovered  (if any) from the payee 
banks and already  reimbursed to Mr B); plus
£200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
HSBC should  pay interest  on this proposed  award of £36,500 at our usual rate of 8% simple 
per year from the date of the respective scam payments to the date of actual refund. Whilst 
no interest is currently payable on the compensation for distress and inconvenience, interest 
will also accrue at that rate on the £200 distress and inconvenience  if it is not paid within 28 
days of HSBC receiving notification of Mr Bs acceptance of my final decision.
If tax is properly deductible on the interest awarded, HSBC  may do this but should  provide 
Mr B with a tax-deduction certificate upon  request.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9281662