K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Ageas Insurance Limited gave  her poor service after she made a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs W had a breakdown policy in addition to her motor policy with Ageas. On Saturday, 
12 January 2019,  two of her cars tyres  were  damaged by contact  with a kerb. As the car 
wasnt driveable, Mrs W called the breakdown service.  It said there wasnt a breakdown  
situation, so it couldnt  assist. 
Mrs W spoke  to an adviser  from Ageas  at 7.45pm. During a long discussion, the adviser 
tried to arrange for a recovery agent  used  by one of its approved  repairers to attend.  As that 
wasnt possible, he contacted Mrs Ws breakdown  service to check whether it would attend. 
As it declined, the adviser arranged for the same  breakdown service  to recover the car on 
Ageass behalf.  It did so under the contract  it had with Ageas, as the motor  policy provided 
limited recovery  cover  after an accident.
Mrs W said the recovery agent  didnt  arrive  until 10.10pm. She was unhappy about that and 
about the fact that Ageas  couldnt arrange  for her to have a replacement car straight away.  
She asked  for a guarantee from Ageas that her car would be repaired and ready  to drive 
away by 10am on Monday, 14 January  2019. The adviser said he couldnt  be certain, but 
that Ageas would push the garage  hard to prioritise the work.   
The recovery agent took Mrs Ws car to the nearby home of one of her family  members, and 
was due to take it to the garage  on Monday  morning. But the next day Mrs W cancelled the 
claim and had the tyres replaced. Later on she complained to Ageas that it had passed  on 
her details to others, as she was now getting  spam  mail. She also said any record of the 
incident should have been removed once shed refunded the cost of the recovery  to Ageas. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mrs Ws complaint. She didnt  think Ageas had acted 
unreasonably. In her view there was no unnecessary delay in it instructing the recovery  
agent. She thought it was reasonable for Ageas not to be able to provide a car straight  away. 
She said it had recorded  Mrs Ws claim correctly. She didnt think Mrs W could show  that 
Ageas had passed on her details inappropriately. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding the complaint in part as follows:
the handling of the claim  
Ageass adviser  and Mrs W discussed her need to have the car repaired very quickly  due to 
an important event  she had to attend  on Monday, 14 January 2019.  There were  few 
approved repairers  in the area. Once one was found, there was a long discussion about it 
prioritising Mrs Ws repairs. The garage opened at 8am on Monday, but I think  it was 
reasonable for the adviser  to say he couldnt be sure the car would be ready by 10am. He 
didnt know what pre-existing commitments  the garage had.
Due to the long discussion, the recovery instruction was delayed.  But I dont think that was 
the advisers fault. I think the call recordings show that he was trying to work  in Mrs Ws best 
interests by dealing with her concerns  and queries  during the call.
Ref: DRN96818662Mrs W had to wait longer than she expected for recovery,  but I think that was due to an 
unfortunate set of circumstances.  The records show that the second recovery  agent  was 
with Mrs W before 9.42pm. That was around two hours after she first contacted  Ageass  
adviser. But the initial discussion with Mrs W had taken over 40 minutes.  The first recovery 
agent the adviser contacted wasnt available. So the adviser  then had to speak to others  to 
try to move matters  on. 
After the recovery agent had checked the damage,  he spoke directly to Ageass adviser and 
confirmed that it was limited to the tyres. He said the car could be taken to a tyre centre  the 
next day. The adviser said it must  be taken to the garage on Monday morning. It isnt clear 
why he stuck to that decision, when the policy  doesnt require repairs  to be done  by an 
approved repairer.  And he knew Mrs W was very nervous about whether the garage would 
definitely replace  the tyres in time for the journey  to her Monday appointment. Thats  why 
she later withdrew the claim  and paid for the work herself. 
I think it would have  been reasonable for Ageas  to agree to Mrs Ws car being taken to a tyre 
centre. That would have meant shed only have paid the policys  £100 excess. Instead, 
Mrs W paid over £350 for the new tyres  as well as refunding Ageas £168 for the recovery  to 
the family  home.  As her future premiums  wont now be affected by a fault claim,  Mrs W will 
save as a result of that over the longer  term. Its not possible  to say by how much. 
Based on the details  I have at the moment, I think it would be fair for Ageas to pay Mrs W 
£250 compensation. I think  that will compensate  for the avoidable worry and the 
inconvenience she faced  in making her own arrangements to have the tyres replaced.  I think  
Ageas could easily have assisted her with that in order  to resolve the situation.     
replacement car
Mrs W told the adviser she was entitled  to a guaranteed replacement  car, which she thought 
should have been available to her straight away.  Ageas has since  confirmed she had that 
entitlement. But on the day of the incident Ageas only referred  to the courtesy  car that was 
available from the approved repairer  whilst repairs were  done.  
Although Ageas didnt pick up on the guaranteed vehicle cover Mrs W had, I dont think  a 
replacement car could have been  arranged late on a Saturday  evening anyway. It may have 
been possible for the business that provided  the guaranteed  vehicle  to supply one on 
Sunday. But I think its fair to say that many consumers wanting  a replacement car due to an 
incident at the weekend  have to wait until Monday for one.
Mrs Ws car was to be repaired  first thing on Monday morning. It was likely to be back with 
her within a couple of hours. The replacement car would  only have been available  until the 
repairs were done.  So in these particular circumstances, I think that even if Ageas had noted 
the guaranteed vehicle cover, its very unlikely it would  have  helped  here.     
recording the claim
As Mrs W reported  an incident to Ageas, I dont think  it was wrong  for it to record  it on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. Most insurers  check CUE records,  
although they use the data they find on it in different ways. Ageas says that as Mrs W paid it 
for its outlay  on the recovery, the record shows nothing was paid by Ageas. The record  
shows her (protected) no claims discount  (NCD) was unaffected. I dont think Mrs W can 
show that Ageas acted  unreasonably in recording  the incident  as it did.
Ref: DRN96818663spam communication
As far as I can see, Mrs W assumed  that Ageas must have passed on personal data about 
her, as the spam communication started after the incident. I think her suspicion  is 
understandable in the circumstances. But theres no evidence that Ageas gave her details to 
anyone other than the recovery agent  and the approved repairer.  
Ageas cant guarantee that the breakdown service complied with data protection 
requirements. But Mrs W already had a breakdown policy  with the service, so it had her 
details before Ageas contacted it. Ageas says it requires its approved repairers  to comply 
with data protection laws and theres  nothing to show that the approved repairer did anything 
wrong. But Ageas cant guarantee that other businesses  dont breach the relevant 
requirements. If Mrs W is concerned about  this issue, its still open to her to contact the 
Information Commissioners Office  for advice,  as the investigator  suggested.
summary
I think Mrs W had a very unpleasant time as a result  of the incident, the wait for assistance  
and the uncertainty about when her car would be repaired. I can see why she was frustrated 
that her breakdown  policy wasnt of any use to her - but thats not Ageass fault. I dont  think 
Mrs W has shown  that it did anything wrong in the way it recorded  the claim,  or that it 
passed on her details wrongly.  And I dont think she lost out on this occasion  as a result  of it 
not realising she had guaranteed replacement vehicle cover.  
 
In my opinion, Mrs W could have been spared some unnecessary worry and inconvenience 
had Ageas agreed to her car being  taken  to a tyre centre. The cars  availability for getting 
her to the event on Monday, 14 January 2019 would then have  been  certain.  She wouldnt 
have had to make and pay for arrangements herself.  So as I said above, I think £250 
compensation for this issue would be fair and reasonable.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional decision. Mrs W accepted it. Ageas said it 
disagreed, but it gave  no reasons and agreed to pay the proposed  compensation anyway.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  accepted my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Ageas Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mrs W £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9681866