K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains about the way Tradewise Insurance Company Limited (Tradewise)  handled 
his motor insurance claim. Any reference to Tradewise includes its agents.
Background
In 2017 Mr Ms vehicle was hit by another driver. Mr M registered  a claim via Tradewises 
claim reporting line which it says is handled  by an accident management  company  referred 
to as Company  A for the purposes of this decision.
Company A  a separate entity to Tradewise  says Mr M took up its offer to provide him 
with a hire car vehicle  and to pursue his uninsured losses against the third-party driver. 
Mr Ms claim  for his insured loss was dealt  with by Tradewise under the insurance policy 
Mr M held with it. Tradewise deemed Mr Ms vehicle  a total loss, so instead of covering the 
cost to repair it, Tradewise agreed  to pay him the market  value  of his car as at the date of 
the loss.
Mr M complained to this service about  both Company A and Tradewise handling of his 
claim. These are two separate companies  and prior to approaching this service, Mr M had 
only raised concerns  to Tradewise. So our investigator explained  we could only look into its 
actions under this complaint. He said if Mr M was also unhappy  with Company As actions, 
hed have to complain to it separately  and give it a chance to respond. 
Mr M accepted this and so the investigator  considered his complaint points about Tradewise 
only. Mr M said Tradewise had unfairly reduced his no claims bonus after the accident and 
charged him a policy excess for something that wasnt his fault. He also disagreed with the 
valuation that was placed on his car. He thought  it shouldve been  higher because of the 
cars condition.
Our investigator looked into the matter and upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. He found  
Tradewise had charged him a higher excess than it should have under the policy terms. So 
he said it should refund  the difference. 
He also found  that Mr M had a level of no claims bonus protection that Tradewise hadnt  
taken into account.  So he agreed that Mr Ms no claims bonus had been incorrectly  reduced 
because of this error.  He said Tradewise should  send confirmation  to Mr M that shows when  
his policy  came to an end in 2017,  he had eight years no claims bonus instead of three  
years. The investigator  said this would allow Mr M to show  this to his new insurers to seek 
reimbursement for any increase in premiums the incorrect no claims bonus  may have 
caused.
But our investigator didnt think Tradewise acted unfairly in relation to the valuation of his 
vehicle. So he didnt  recommend that it do anything further in relation to this. Tradewise  
accepted the investigators findings. Mr M accepted the findings about his no claims bonus 
and policy  excess but remained  unhappy  with the vehicle  valuation. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN90006792In bringing this complaint Mr M has made a number of detailed  points and Ive
considered everything  hes said carefully.  But in this decision, Ill focus on what  I see as
being the key outstanding issues following our investigators assessment of the complaint. 
And in doing so Ill decide if Tradewise has dealt with Mr M in a fair and reasonable way. 
As set out in the background of this complaint, Tradewise has agreed to refund Mr M £250 of 
the policy excess he paid on the claim, because according to the policy documents  hed 
seen, this shouldve  been £650 rather than the £900  he was initially charged. It also agreed 
to issue confirmation  to Mr M that he had eight years no claims bonus when the policy  came  
to an end in 2017. From what  Ive seen, Mr M has agreed to these resolutions,  so I wont  
comment on them any further in my findings  on this case.
It seems  the only issue left in dispute in this case,  is the amount Tradewise paid Mr M for his 
vehicle under the claim. Mr M says it doesnt reflect a fair value of his vehicle. And hes 
provided Tradewise  with links to car sales websites to prove his point. So Ill start by looking 
at what the policy terms say in relation to settling  claims. They state:
If Your Car is damaged or stolen  and provided  all reasonable precautions are taken, We 
will, at our option: 
a) Pay the reasonable cost of repairing any damage to Your  Car within its Market Value
OR b) Pay an amount  in cash equivalent to the value of any loss or damage  to Your Car
OR c) Pay the cost of replacing the Insured Vehicle or any part thereof which has been
lost or damaged,  with one of a similar type and in similar condition, the replaced item
then becoming the Underwriters property;
Tradewise deemed  Mr Ms car a total loss and so decided to settle the claim by paying him 
the cost of replacing the insured vehicle. This appears to be fair as its entitled  to do this 
under the terms  of the policy. 
The terms also state that; The maximum amount payable for any one incident will not 
exceed the Market Value  of the Insured Vehicle at the date of the loss or damage . And 
market value is defined  in the policy as; The replacement value of the same  make and 
model of car of a similar age and condition and history as determined by reference  to vehicle 
value publications.
To help it determine  the market value of Mr Ms vehicle, Tradewise relied on two trade  
guides, settling  on the highest  amount found via these guides  of £10,680. Our investigator 
carried out his own check of the relevant trade guides before issuing his view and received 
similar valuations  to the ones Tradewise had quoted. He was satisfied the valuation was fair 
in this case. But Mr M disagreed. He said his vehicle  was in very good condition  and the 
valuation shouldve been at least a few thousand  pounds more.
Its not my role to value  cars but rather to consider whether the insurer reached  its valuation 
fairly and reasonably. And when considering complaints about valuations  Im more  
persuaded by relevant trade guides,  as these  are generally more  reliable  than figures found 
advertised on car sales websites. I say this because, the trade guides use extensive 
research of likely selling  prices for cars, whereas the price a car is advertised for isnt 
necessarily the price its sold for. 
Ref: DRN90006793From what  Ive seen, the valuation Tradewise gave Mr M was at the top end of the figures it 
found from the trade guides  which seems  fair. And because Mr M retained salvage of the 
vehicle, Tradewise deducted from this figure, the amount  it wouldve received  had it 
disposed of the salvage, alongside the policy excess. I dont  think this is unreasonable in this 
case. And these are generally standard actions  for an insurer  to take in the circumstances. 
Mr M was therefore paid an amount of £7,430.50. (Plus a later payment of £250  as a refund 
for the increased  excess amount  hed incorrectly been charged  as set out above.)
Tradewise did consider the website links Mr M sent to it, showing adverts of what he said 
were comparable vehicles  from car sales websites that cost more  than the valuation  hed 
been given. But from what Ive seen, many of these examples differed from Mr Ms car in 
relation to the age and condition. So Tradewise concluded the trade guides were  still more 
reliable and its position on the valuation  remained unchanged. I dont think  that was 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied Tradewise acted fairly and reasonably  and 
in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy in giving the valuation it did. So I wont  
be directing it to increase the amount it paid to him any further. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that if it hasnt done so already, 
Tradewise Insurance  Company Limited should  honour its agreement to:
Refund Mr M the difference between what he did pay and what  he shouldve  paid for 
the policy excess in this case at an amount of £250. Tradewise  Insurance Company 
Limited should pay 8% simple  interest on that amount, from the date the additional  
excess amount was paid to the date it is/was  refunded to him. 
Issue a letter to Mr M confirming that when his policy ended in 2017, he had eight 
years no claims  bonus.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Tradewise Insurance Company  Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Tradewise Insurance Company Limited must give Mr M a certificate  
showing how much  tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN9000679