K821x#15Complaint
Mrs D complains about the service she received from U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) when  
her car broke down. Shes represented  throughout by her husband Mr D.
Background
Mrs D was driving abroad with her children when her cars engine overheating light 
appeared on her dashboard. Mrs D called Mr D to let him know what  had happened,  and 
UKI who said their overseas recovery company, who Ill call O, would contact her and help 
with the next steps. She also called  the recovery phone number on the side of the road and 
was then recovered by the police to a local garage several hours  later. 
Mrs D called UKI again to see when O would be arriving  as shed been expecting  them  to be 
there already. UKI gave  Mrs D Os number, and said theyd call O for an update. O then 
identified theyd been calling the wrong number. 
Mrs D called O to let them know the car had been  taken to a garage and to ask what to do 
next. O explained that they needed to see if the car could be repaired before she needed  to 
leave the country,  or whether it would need repatriating back to the UK. Mrs D told O the 
garage had advised the car needed a new engine and couldnt  be driven in its current state.  
And theyd  also provided a quote to replace the engine,  but this would cost around €10,000. 
O then confirmed because the following day was a national  holiday and nowhere would be 
open that Mrs D would need a hotel overnight, and a taxi to the hotel which they would now 
arrange for her. In the meantime, Mr D had been contacting  another  team  at UKI to make  
them aware of his wifes situation but due to an error, they couldnt locate the correct 
authorisation and initially  wouldnt speak to him - although they did identify their error later on 
that day.
Mrs D called O as she hadnt  heard from them.  After  several  hours O still hadnt confirmed 
what would  be happening  next, and the garage needed to close  for the day. So they moved 
the car back  outside  the garage  so Mrs D could wait in it with the children until O arrived.  
Mrs D was distressed as it was late, and she was alone with her children in an unknown 
area with no available facilities. So she contacted a friend who arranged a hotel room  for two 
nights and a taxi to take her there. As there was no requirement for the taxi and hotel O were 
arranging these were  cancelled. 
The following  day a hire car was arranged for Mrs D but due to issues with her contact 
number, she didnt  receive the confirmation until it was quite late in the day. O also 
discussed with Mrs D that because her car could be repaired, under the terms of her policy 
she could keep the hire car for the duration  of time her car was being repaired.  However,  if 
she didnt want to repair her car, she would  have to return the hire car as this wouldnt  be 
covered under her policy. They also explained that because shed been provided with a hire 
car that day, they wouldnt be able to refund  the cost of the hotel for that evening  as only one 
option would  be covered.  
Mr D didnt agree so he complained to UKI and asked this service to look into the complaint. 
He was unhappy with the delays his wife had experienced, he also felt the garage  were 
charging extortionate  costs to repair his wifes car and it was unfair that UKI wouldnt 
repatriate his wifes  car because they said it could be repaired at this cost. He was also 
Ref: DRN96535282unhappy with the service  provided by UKI and that the information  hed requested  about the 
complaint hadnt  been sent as hed requested.  
UKI upheld  the complaint in part. They agreed their service hadnt been at the level theyd 
expect when Mrs D had broken down and they should have done more  to contact her. So 
they offered  £200 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused. However, 
they didnt agree that they should  repatriate  the car as it could be repaired,  and this was in-
line with the policy terms. They  said they couldnt be held responsible  for the garages quote  
and theyd offered  Mr D several options  to return his wifes car to the UK. They also said 
theyd provided  the hire car in-line with the terms of the policy and had provided the 
information Mr D had requested about  the complaint.   
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She agreed that UKI had made 
some service errors  and should have done more to contact Mrs D initially.  But she felt the 
compensation theyd  offered for this was fair. However, she didnt think UKI were 
responsible for the actions of the garage  in the quote the provided and moving the car 
outside when  it closed. 
She also felt UKI had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions when theyd decided  
not to repatriate  the car. And that UKI hadnt acted unfairly when said they couldnt provide a 
hire car if Mrs D didnt want to proceed with the repair or provide overnight accommodation 
when a hire car had been provided so Mrs D could continue with her journey. However, she 
did agree  that UKI should have been able to provide  the calls when Mr D had requested  
them. She said shed  spoken to UKI about  this and theyd offered Mrs D a further £100 
compensation for this error, which she felt was reasonable.
Mr D didnt agree. He felt UKIs policy wording was unfair as it didnt say repair  costs  should  
be reasonable and he was unhappy UKI hadnt  provided copies  of the calls that had taken 
place which  would support his account of what had taken place. So he asked for an 
ombudsman to look into his complaint,  and the case has been passed to me to make  a 
decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 13 March 2020. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ill explain  why.
Delays contacting  Mrs D
Although UKI have  admitted  they didnt deal with Mrs Ds breakdown as quickly as they 
should have, I can see theyve disputed Mrs D was left waiting for as long as Mr D has said.  
However, Ive looked at the case notes and the timeline of the contact with Mrs D. Ive seen  
that Mrs D broke down at around 2.30pm but after she still hadnt  heard anything for an hour, 
she contacted  UKI to ask what had happened. It was then identified  that O had been calling 
the wrong number.  O then said they would try and call Mrs D, but I havent seen any 
evidence that this call took place. The first case note showing Mrs D spoke to O was when 
shed called them at around 5.50pm to let them  know she had reached a local garage.  
At this point UKI said O told Mrs D that shed need a hotel for the night, and theyd arranged 
this for her. However,  Ive looked at Os case notes  which say they told Mrs D theyd arrange 
a hotel if they couldnt get a hire car for her. But there is no further update until the file note 
Ref: DRN96535283around 90 minutes later to say they cancelled the hotel and taxi at Mrs Ds request. Ive seen 
that O had details of the garage Mrs Ds car had been taken to, so even if they werent able 
to contact her directly to provide her with an update, they could have called the garage  
instead.
UKIs case notes say they didnt tell Mrs D there  wouldnt  be anywhere to stay and that 
theyd arranged a hotel and taxi for her. They also said that Mrs D had asked them to cancel 
the hotel and taxi theyd  booked for her as a friend had arranged one for her. However, this 
is disputed by Mr D and based on what Ive seen Im also not persuaded thats the case. 
Unfortunately, despite being requested at the time, the call recordings from this date are no 
longer available for me to confirm this so I need  to base my decision on the evidence I have. 
However, Ive seen the case notes from O at 7.24pm to say they spoke to Mrs D and she 
asked them to cancel  the hotel. But there is no case note to say the call took place with 
Mrs D  only that the call was made to the hotel  to cancel it at her request. 
Im also not persuaded that if Mrs D had been  told O were definitely  going to find a hotel for 
her, she would have  taken the time to ask a friend to locate and pay for a hotel for her 
instead. I also think its unlikely that Mrs O would have chosen  to cancel the hotel  and taxi 
that had already been booked for her, in favour of waiting longer  in the dark with no facilities  
to see if a friend may be able to book a hotel for her. Ive seen that Mrs D called O at around 
9.00pm to let them know  shed  arranged  her own hotel and taxi. And Im not persuaded she 
had been told before this point that hotel had been booked for her.  
Ive seen that earlier in the day on 14 August, Mrs D had waited several  hours for O to 
contact her due to an error with her contact  number. So, I think its reasonable that she was 
concerned she hadnt  heard anything from them after ninety minutes and may need 
assistance to find a hotel overnight  for her and the children   particularly as O hadnt  actually  
confirmed they were providing a hotel and when shes spoken to them half an hour after 
arriving at the garage  they said they were  still trying to arrange one. So, I dont  think UKI 
treated Mrs D reasonably  in how they dealt with her breakdown. 
UKI have  accepted that their service  fell short of what they would expect  when they were 
dealing with Mrs Ds breakdown, and theyve offered compensation of £200 for their error. 
But given the circumstances Mrs D found herself  in, I dont think thats enough. Thats  
because Mrs D was caused  significant distress at an already challenging time and had to 
spend time and energy trying to arrange  her own services  that UKI and/or  O should have 
provided. So, based on the evidence  Ive seen I think  they should pay a total of £500  
compensation for this part of the complaint.  
Cost of repairs and repatriation of Mrs Ds car
Looking at Mrs Ds policy, I can see under section E8  Bringing you back home it says, If 
your vehicle breaks down  and cant be repaired  in time for your journey back, well pay to 
bring you, your passengers and your vehicle home to the UK using our choice of transport. 
Mr D told us he feels the quote his wife was given to repair  her car is extortionate so UKI 
have acted unfairly by saying  the car could be repaired and therefore they wouldnt 
repatriate his wifes  car. Mr D also said he feels the policy wording is unfair,  and he feels that 
UKI should be aware that garages  abroad charge unreasonable  repair costs because  of the 
business they operate in. 
Ref: DRN96535284Mr D also said he feels we should  tell UKI to change the policy wording to say if the vehicle 
cant be repaired at a reasonable cost,  they will cover the repatriation of the vehicle. But its 
not our role to tell a business how they should  word  their policies  and its up to the insurer  
to decide what  they want to cover. We can however look at whether the business has acted 
fairly and reasonably.
I recognise Mr Ds frustration at the quote he was given for the car repairs as this could be 
arranged far more cheaply back  in the UK. However, UKI cant be held responsible  for how 
much a garage decides to charge as they are an independent service.  I acknowledge Mr Ds 
comments about other local garages carrying  out repairs more cheaply,  but UKI werent  
responsible for deciding  which garage Mrs Ds car was towed to. 
The policy wording says that if the vehicle  breaks  down UKI will arrange for you, your 
vehicle and any passengers to be taken  to the nearest repair  centre and if the vehicle 
needs to be taken  to a garage, youll be responsible for any costs  from that point. The 
garage will be acting for you. So, I dont think UKI have any input over how much  the 
garage may charge or indeed if the vehicle  owner  decides they want  to go ahead with 
repairs. They are simply providing a recovery service to a potential repair centre.  
Mr D feels that O refused to take his wifes car to another  garage,  and hes unhappy that 
once a decision had been made not to repair his wifes car it was no longer covered  under 
the policy. I realise that this is what the policy says,  but I think the specifics  of this particular 
case meant that Mrs D was in a very difficult position and that UKI didnt exercise any 
flexibility to help resolve the situation.  I recognise  UKI told Mr D that they could repatriate  his 
wifes car themselves, and that they arranged  for a hire car to bring  Mr and Mrs D and their 
family back to the UK, which they werent required to do if the car wasnt  repaired.  But in this 
case I dont think they did enough. 
Ive seen Os case notes  which  states they spoke to the garage,  who then explained how 
much the repairs to the car, would cost.  And that given the age of the car, and the 
substantial costs involved, it would be uneconomical to repair  it. Os case notes also show 
they discussed taking the car to another garage with Mrs D but this was several days  later.  
And by this point she didnt want to do this, as O had said she would be liable for the 
additional diagnostic  costs and that the outcome of a further  diagnostic  check wasnt likely to 
be any different. 
I think given the situation Mrs D found  herself in, her only option was to repair the car at that 
specific garage at a substantial cost which  theyd  already said was uneconomical. This 
meant shed been  left with no real way of continuing her journey or returning home without  
paying out more than the value of her car. So I think given Mrs Ds lack of options, and no 
real option  to seek assistance  from a different garage, UKI should have been more  flexible  in 
how theyd offered assistance  to Mrs D. And I think in this case  it would have been 
reasonable for UKI to have repatriated her car. 
I also think it was reasonable Mr D arranged his own repatriation  based on the costs  UKI 
had given, and the lack of response  when hed asked which cost hes actually need  to pay. 
And as Ive mentioned above,  I think UKI should have acted more flexibly  and repatriated 
Mrs Ds car. This meant Mrs Ds family would have be repatriated under the policy terms  
so I dont think UKI have  incurred costs here that they wouldnt have needed to pay anyway. 
And because of this, I think  UKI should refund the costs incurred by Mr D to repatriate 
Mrs Ds car, plus 8% standard interest per annum.  
Ref: DRN96535285Hire car usage 
Mr D has mentioned hes unhappy as his wife didnt get the hire car until later on the day on 
15 August, and it was the evening before she was able to collect  her luggage from the 
garage and begin her six-hour onward  journey. So, he felt it was unreasonable  UKI wouldnt 
pay for the second  nights accommodation.  
Ive looked at the policy booklet and I can see that under section E5 - Cant  use your car it 
says If your car breaks down during your trip and it cant be repaired within  24 hours, well 
arrange and pay for one of these things: 
1)taking you, your passengers and luggage to wherever  you were trying  to get to by 
another form of transport;
2)a hire car, if theres one available, while your cars out of action  up to a value  of 
£850;
3)putting you and your passengers up in a local hotel while you wait for the repairs to 
be done. Theres a limit of £45 per person per day, or £500  altogether  on the hotel 
costs that well pay, as long as those costs are over and above  anything you were 
already expecting to pay. Breakfast can be included, but alcohol cant.   
Its not in dispute  that UKI didnt  need  to provide more than one option at the same  time. 
However, UKI have  said they dont feel O were responsible  for the delay in Mrs D getting the 
hire car on the 15 August.  The also said they couldnt guarantee they could get Mrs D a hire 
car early enough for her to continue her journey. But I dont  agree with the first point and I 
dont think the second point is relevant in this case. 
Ive seen UKIs case notes which show they were able to obtain a hire car at around 
10.50am  which  was early enough for her to continue her journey  at a reasonable time. But 
despite O being told Mrs D wasnt receiving messages or calls from them, it was 45 minutes 
before they attempted to call and say they had a hire car, and they then followed this up with 
text messages rather than the requested emails. Ive also seen that after O sent the text 
messages, it was several hours later before  they attempted to call Mrs D again to let her 
know they had the hire car for her.   
UKIs case notes say that it was only after the call from them that Mrs D called them  back  to 
say shed missed the call. Theyve  also noted that they were able to make  phone contact 
with Mrs D at around 4.00pm said she received  a text message  from them  at around  ten 
minutes earlier, so they felt this was enough not to send the email. But I dont agree. Mrs D 
had already made it clear she wasnt struggling  to receive phone  and message contact from 
O and because they didnt contact her as requested, it caused a significant delay in Mrs D 
being able to set off on her onward journey.  
As I mentioned above, I recognise that the policy only needs to provide one option,  not 
several. However, O were  already  aware  that Mrs D had her children with her and where  she 
was travelling to. So, they would have  been aware  of the journey length and given they knew  
the time Mrs D was able to pick up the hire car, they would also have been  aware  of the late 
hour she would have arrived at her destination there. So, I think based on the delay in 
providing Mrs D with the hire car, O left Mrs D with no other option than to stay in the hotel 
for a second  night.  And I think given the circumstances of the complaint, they should  refund 
the cost for the second nights hotel accommodation.
Mr D also told us Mrs D was unable to enjoy  her holiday as she regularly had to contact O 
about the hire car. And they felt it was unreasonable Mrs D wasnt able to keep  it for the 
Ref: DRN96535286remainder of her trip once  shed confirmed she didnt want  the car to be repaired. Looking  at 
the policy wording  Ive mentioned above,  it mentions providing  the different options  whilst the 
vehicle is being  repaired. 
Ive seen that Mrs D did have the hire car for several additional days whilst  discussions were 
taking place about what would happen next with her car. But once Mrs D had confirmed with 
O that she didnt  want  her car repaired whilst  it was abroad, O were no longer required to 
provide a hire car from that point. I understand Mrs D still wanted a car to use whilst she was 
on holiday, but as the extra hire car usage wasnt covered in the policy.  I cant say its 
unreasonable of UKI not to cover this, or for them to be arranging with Mrs D when the hire 
car would be returned. 
Complaint handling  
As I mentioned above, I recognise UKI have made mistakes when dealing  with Mrs Ds 
claim. However, I think they caused  additional distress  to Mr and Mrs D when they failed to 
spot that Mr D had authority to speak to them when Mrs D was stuck at the garage and 
unable to speak  to them directly. And Ive taken this into account when making my decision.  
Ive also seen that despite Mr D requesting the calls between Mrs D and O from both UKI 
and O at the outset  of the complaint, these were  not provided to him. Ive also seen that O 
said the request  needed to have come  from UKI, UKI were also aware of the request but 
didnt chase O for copies  of the calls until several  months later  when the calls had already 
been deleted.  
This has meant Mr and Mrs D have lost the opportunity of receiving the evidence they say 
would have confirmed  their version  of events. I recognise that UKI have offered Mr and 
Mrs D a further £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. However, given the 
importance of the calls to Mr and Mrs Ds recollection of events, and that both O and UKI 
were aware of the request  yet didnt provide them I dont think this is enough. So I feel UKI 
should pay Mrs D a total of £200 compensation for the distress caused  for this part of the 
complaint.
I invited Mr D and UKI to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.  UKI didnt  respond to my provisional decision.
Mr D disagreed with my decision.  He repeated several of the points that hed already raised 
and also said in summary:
That he wanted me to consider whether O as a business was fit for purpose and how 
irresponsibly they had acted;
He was unhappy he was having  to point out flaws in UKIs  systems;
He felt I hadnt addressed that UKI were letting  down  their customers  and profiting 
from the repatriation  costs;
He wanted  an apology from UKI for their dishonesty  and poor service;
Mrs D wasnt  told that under the policy she was entitled to claim a food allowance  
and was told to visit a local supermarket to feed her family.
Ref: DRN96535287My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision. 
Both Mr D and UKI have  both provided  detailed evidence about this complaint. Ive taken on-
board all their points  but Im not going  to respond to each point individually. However,  I 
think its worth noting that the Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt free to consider every 
complaint point thats brought to it. Were governed  by rules set by the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). Theyre called the DISP rules and can be found  in the 
FCAs handbook.  They set out the complaints we can (and cant)  investigate.
Several of Mr Ds complaint points relate to how UKI and their agent Os systems and 
processes work. However, I am unable to comment on this, as we arent the regulator.  If 
Mr D wants to make a complaint about  UKIs conduct (or an agent  acting on their behalf)  he 
can contact the FCA and make them aware  of his concerns.  Although I do need  to make 
Mr D aware that they dont respond to individual  complaints. 
Mr D has also noted that I didnt respond to his comment that UKI are letting their customers  
down. But I cant comment on how UKI have treated their customers in general or a 
complaint about  a business as a whole. My role is to look at individual complaints,  and the 
impact a businesss actions have had on that complainant. And I agree that in this case, 
UKIs systems and processes failed  Mrs D which is the reason I have upheld the complaint.
Mr D has said that Mrs D wasnt told that she had a food allowance of £45 per person  per 
day that she could  use to feed her family.  And that O told Mrs D she should visit a local 
supermarket to purchase food. As I mentioned  previously,  as there  are no phone  calls from 
that night for me to listen to, its difficult for me to know exactly what  was said.  However, Os 
notes do reference  Mrs D visiting a supermarket  because everything would be closed the 
following day. 
Although there is also a reference to Mrs D purchasing fast food, it doesnt  appear Os agent 
or UKI told Mrs D that she had a daily allowance that she could spend, or that they would 
refund her for any food purchased up to that allowance.  So I dont think UKI acted fairly here 
and I think they should  refund Mrs Ds what she spent to feed her family on the 14 August 
and 15 August when  she was staying at the hotel, up to the limit of £45 per person, per day. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited  must follow the below 
instructions: 
Pay Mrs D £700 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused;
Refund the cost incurred  by Mrs D for the second nights hotel stay (subject  to the 
receipt being provided);
Refund the cost of the repatriation of Mrs Ds car plus 8% standard interest per 
annum from the date it was paid until the date of settlement* (subject  to the receipt  
being provided);
Refund the cost of the food Mrs D purchased on the 14 August 2018  and 15 August 
2018 up to a maximum of £45 per person (subject to the receipts being provided).
Ref: DRN96535288Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
*If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs D how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9653528