K820x#14complaint
Miss S and Mr K complain that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
In 2008 Miss S and Mr K took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy  covered both 
Miss S and Mr K for accident, sickness and unemployment and would have provided a 
monthly benefit of about £650.00.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss S and Mr K disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss S and Mr Ks case. I have  also taken account of 
the law and good industry practice  at the time the PPI policy  was sold. 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Miss S and Mr Ks needs?
-Did Lloyds give Miss S and Mr K the information  they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there were shortcomings  in the way Lloyds  sold the policy, I need  to consider whether Miss 
S and Mr K are worse off as a result; that is, whether they would have done  something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there had been no shortcomings.
The PPI was sold to Miss S and Mr K during a meeting  with an adviser from Lloyds, who 
was recommending a mortgage and insurance products.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Miss S and Mr K and Lloyds when they 
were discussing  the mortgage  and PPI. The records from the meeting  show  that Miss S and 
Mr K wanted  to protect  their mortgage  with PPI but didnt appear to want  to take any 
buildings insurance.  So it seems that Miss S and Mr K were making choices about the 
insurance they wanted. I cant  see anything on the paperwork that suggests that Miss S and 
Mr K had to have the PPI. 
I think Lloyds made  Miss S and Mr K aware  that the PPI was optional and they chose to take 
it. 
Ref: DRN92303572However, this isnt the main thrust of Miss K and Mr Ks complaint. Miss S and Mr K say the 
terms and conditions for the PPI werent  properly  explained to them, and the policy  wasnt  
suitable given  their circumstances. Mss S and Mr K say this only became clear  when they 
tried to claim  on the policy and their claim was rejected. They think  the terms for self 
employment/contract work meant  it wasnt suitable  for Mr K. 
Ive looked carefully  at the terms and conditions in the policy  Miss S and Mr K bought. And 
Im satisfied the policy was suitable  given Miss S and Mr Ks circumstances and I say this 
because:
-Both Miss S and Mr K were eligible  for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
-The policy was split in order to cover both Miss S and Mr K, and appears to have been  
done so in line with their respective  earnings  at the time. That seems  appropriate  to me. 
-Mr K had no work related benefits  if he became  ill and couldnt work.  Miss S said she 
would have received some  work-related benefits  in similar  circumstances. The policy  
would have paid out in addition  to any occupational  benefits  and would do so, it seems, 
for longer.  Having  the policy in place  would mean  Miss S and Mr K could use any work-
related benefits  and savings to pay for other  expenses. So I think Miss S and Mr K would 
have had some use for the policy despite  their existing  arrangements.
-Miss S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
Weve been told Mr K was working on repetitive, short term contracts. But hed been 
doing that for 20 years,  and hes shown as employed on all the paperwork from the 
time when they bought the PPI. I think he was eligible for the policy. Even if he was 
actually self-employed,  the policy was still suitable for him, as the terms and conditions 
shouldnt have  made it more difficult for him to claim than if hed been  employed. 
-The fact find from the meeting  gives  the cost of the PPI. I cant  be sure that Miss S and 
Mr K were given a copy of this at the time.  But, even  if Miss S and Mr K didnt know the 
exact amount  of the premium when they bought the policy  I think they might  have 
known approximately  what it was. Ultimately, I think Miss S and Mr K were aware they 
had to pay something for the policy and Ive seen nothing to suggest  it was unaffordable 
or that the benefit  was insufficient  to meet their total monthly  mortgage repayments.
Its possible that some of the information  the bank gave Miss S and Mr K about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But they chose to take out the policy  and so appear 
to have wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Miss S and Mr K werent affected by 
any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy seems to have been  affordable,  I think  it 
unlikely Miss S and Mr K would have made a different decision if better  information  had been  
provided  overall,  I think they would still have taken  out the policy.
Miss S and Mr K also told us that a claim they made on this policy was declined  unfairly. For 
clarity, this decision is only about  what happened at the time the policy was sold. Miss S and 
Mr K could make a new complaint about  what happened when they tried to claim if they so 
wish. 
Ref: DRN92303573my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S and Mr K 
to let me know whether they accept or reject  my decision before  4 July 2020.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9230357