K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about a payment she made  to Just Retirement  Limited in relation to her
roll-up, lifetime  mortgage  following  the sale of part of her property as a building  plot. Mrs H
took out the mortgage with her late husband.  Mrs Hs son, Mr H, is helping  her to bring the
complaint.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  5 July 2019,  
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I intended to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. I said that, 
in effect, Just Retirement  had treated  Mrs Hs request as if she wished to move house  and 
port the mortgage product, but thats not what she wanted to do. Mrs H wanted to sell a plot 
of her land,  which  was envisaged  in the product literature at the outset. I thought that a fair 
outcome was for Mrs H to pay a sum that maintained the loan to value ratio of 55%.  So, I 
proposed to direct Just Retirement to refund the amount Mrs H had paid in excess  of that, 
with interest. I invited both parties  to let me have any further comments and evidence. 
responses to my provisional  decision
The latest response from Mr H, on Mrs Hs behalf,  was that she agreed with my provisional 
decision if this meant  a speedy  conclusion to the case. Before that, Mr H provided details 
about why the value  of the property was not adversely  affected  by the sale of the plot of land 
Mr H provided  a valuation  from a surveyor, which said that the market value of the property 
in July 2019 was £525,000. 
Just Retirement sought clarification about  the proposed redress and said that it understood it 
would increase Mrs Hs loan by £19,000  and pay her the interest separately.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr H asked to discuss the case with me. As the investigator explained, we 
dont usually do that and I dont think its appropriate to do so here. Thats because it would, 
in effect, give Mr H a one-sided personal  hearing  to press Mrs Hs case  directly without    
Just Retirement being involved or being able to contribute to or counter what was said. On 
the rare occasions we conduct a direct  hearing, its at the discretion of an ombudsman, 
solely because its essential to reach  a fair outcome and both parties  to the complaint  are 
invited to be present.  Anything  else would  be procedurally  unfair  and introduce the risk of 
bias. Im satisfied I can deal fairly  with this complaint based on the evidence  on file from all 
parties. 
Im pleased that Mrs H accepts my provisional  decision. Ive noted what  Mr H says about the 
value of the property and the valuation hes provided. I remain  of the view that its 
appropriate to base a fair outcome on the valuation of £490,000. That was the post sale 
valuation obtained  by Just Retirement at the time it was considering Mrs Hs request for its 
consent to the sale of the plot. 
Ref: DRN96496412The March  2018  valuation noted that some upgrading modifications will also take place to 
the existing dwelling and that the valuation of £490,000  is likely to be enhanced upon 
completion of the upgrading  works. Just Retirement wouldnt know at that stage that either 
the enhancement works would definitely  be completed or the effect on the value of Mrs Hs 
property. So, Just Retirement would quite properly base any decision about consenting to 
the sale on the valuation of £490,000.  
I remain of the view that Just Retirement treated  Mrs H unfairly in treating her request as if 
she wished to move house  and port the mortgage product. I think  a fair outcome is for 
Just Retirement to refund  to Mrs H the different between the amount she paid (£29,811.68 ) 
and the amount she would have paid simply to reduce the loan amount to 55% of the 
property value. This will increase the amount of the mortgage secured on the property. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  I now direct Just Retirement Limited to refund to Mrs H the 
difference between  the amount she paid (£29,811.68) and the amount she would have paid 
simply to reduce the loan amount to 55% of the property  value  of £490,000 as at the date of 
completion of the sale of the plot. Just Retirement will deal with the calculation but the refund 
is likely  to be in the region  of £19,000. This will increase the amount of the mortgage secured 
on the property.
As Mrs H has been kept out of the use of that money, Just Retirement should also pay 
simple interest on the amount refunded at the rate of 8% per year from the date Mrs H made 
the payment to the date of settlement.  HM Revenue & Customs requires Just Retirement to 
take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.  
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96496413extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs H complains about a payment she made to Just Retirement Limited in relation to her roll-up, 
lifetime mortgage following the sale of part of her property as a building plot. Mrs H took out the 
mortgage with her late husband. Mrs Hs son, Mr H, is helping her to bring the complaint.
background
In 2009, Mrs H and her husband took out a roll-up,  lifetime mortgage with
Just Retirement following advice from a third party. Under  the terms of the mortgage product,  if 
they didnt borrow the maximum  amount available to them  at the outset,  they could borrow 
additional amounts later from a pre-agreed cash facility.
Interest is charged at a rate fixed at the time of the advances but no monthly  payments are 
required. The interest  rolls up and is added to the amount owed.  The mortgage is due to be 
repaid if the property is sold voluntarily or when  the last remaining borrower leaves the home  
for long-term care or dies.
The initial borrowing was £80,500,  followed by further advances of £30,000 in 2011,
£42,000 in 2012, £10,000 in 2016 and £21,000 in 2017. So, the total capital  borrowed was 
£183,500. There was no remaining cash facility.
In February  2018, solicitors acting for Mrs H and her husband  asked Just Retirement for its consent  
to the sale of part of the mortgaged  property as a building plot. Just Retirement consented to the 
sale on payment of £29,811.68.
In April 2018,  Mrs Hs husband died. In May 2018, Mrs H sold the plot of land for £125,000  and paid 
Just Retirement £29,811.68 on completion of the sale.
Mr H says that Mrs Hs income is reduced now that shes widowed and she hoped  to rely on the 
proceeds of sale of the plot of land to help her to remain in her home  for as long as possible.  Mrs H 
doesnt understand how Just Retirement can justify  taking such  a large
proportion of the sale price.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Just Retirement  had treated Mrs H unfairly. She said that as the sale 
of the plot of land devalued  the property on which Just Retirement had based its security for the 
lifetime mortgage, a redemption payment is payable  under the terms of the mortgage. The 
adjudicator thought that was fair, as the sale of the plot of land affected the loan to value ratio.  She 
said Just Retirement consented to the sale of the plot of land, as there was sufficient equity in the 
property to allow it to do so and that the charge arose as the propertys value  reduced after the sale.
Mrs H asked that an ombudsman  consider  the complaint. Mr H said that the amount Just 
Retirement asked  Mrs H to pay feels unjust. He said that the current  value of the property is around 
£510,000, which is in line with the valuation  before  the sale of the plot. Mr H said that the adjacent 
development had increased the value of Mrs Hs property. He said that in the particular  
circumstances here, theres sufficient equity in the property to repay  whats owed so it feels unfair 
to penalise  Mrs H based on the notion that the value  of her property had been adversely  affected 
by the sale of the land.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
Ref: DRN96496414my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The product literature for the roll-up, lifetime mortgage explains the product  and, amongst other 
things, explains what will happen if the borrowers  circumstances change. The literature 
describes four changes of circumstances: moving house, additional borrowing, property title 
changes and early repayment. The one thats relevant to the circumstances  here says:
Property  title changes
If you wish to make a change to the legal  title to your property, for example to [] sell a portion 
of garden land [], you will need to obtain  our approval. You will have to pay our legal and re-
inspection valuation costs  which will vary depending on the nature of the proposed  change. 
The re-inspection fee is based upon the estimated value  of your property.
In addition,  the 2009 mortgage says:  
4.13 Sale etc of Mortgaged Property
4.13.1             You must not sell or dispose of the Mortgaged Property or any estate or interest in 
it or share  or part with possession  or occupation of it without our prior written consent.
In February  2018, Mrs Hs solicitor asked Just Retirement for its consent to sell the plot of land 
and sent payment of £118 for re-inspection  costs and £240 for legal  costs.
In March  2018, Just Retirement asked Mrs Hs solicitors  for some further information and said that a 
partial repayment  may be required to reflect the new valuation of the property after the split has 
taken place and this could  include Early Repayment Charges.
Just Retirement instructed  a surveyor to value the property.  The surveyor said that the property  
was valued at £508,000 before the sale of the plot and £490,000 after the sale of the plot.
Just Retirement agreed to the sale of the plot on repayment of £29,811.68. It said that was made 
up of £19,557.43 repayment  of capital and £10,254.25 payment of interest.
In effect,  Just Retirement treated Mrs Hs request  as if she wished  to move house and port the 
mortgage product. But thats not what Mrs H wanted to do. She wanted to sell a plot of her land, 
which was envisaged in the product literature at the outset. The product literature didnt say that 
Mrs H would have to repay capital or interest or pay an early repayment charge in these  
circumstances. It said that shed have to pay Just Retirements legal and re-inspection valuation  
costs, which  she was willing to do.
I dont think that it was open  to Just Retirement  to treat Mrs Hs request as a request to port the 
mortgage. That wasnt what she asked to do. But I can quite  understand that Just Retirement was 
concerned about its loan to value  ratio after the sale of the plot. It says that if there are changes to the 
property, such as a sale of land, it needs to review what its prepared to lend. Just Retirement says 
that if Mrs H were a new borrower, it would  only be willing to provide a loan to value ratio of 41%. But 
Mrs H wasnt  a new borrower.  She had simply  asked Just Retirement  for its consent  to sell a plot of 
land, as envisaged by Just Retirement in the product literature at the outset.
Just Retirement rightly  says that it is not obliged to consent to the sale of the plot of land. So, it could  
have refused to give its consent. But I dont think that would  have been fair, particularly as its product 
literature mentioned  the sale of part of the mortgaged property.
Ive given  this matter  considerable thought. I think a fair outcome here is for Just Retirement to ask 
Mrs H for a payment necessary to maintain its loan to value ratio after the sale of the plot. According  
Ref: DRN96496415to Just Retirements  final response letter,  at the time of Mrs Hs request, the loan to value ratio was 
55%. I assume  thats based  on a loan of approximately £280,000 and a pre-sale  valuation of 
£508,000. The post-sale  valuation was £490,000. In order  to maintain  a loan to value ratio of 55%, 
the loan would have  to be around £270,000.
So, I think it would  have  been fair for Just Retirement to ask Mrs H to pay approximately
£10,000, which would  have maintained its loan to value ratio of 55% plus its re-inspection
and legal fees amounting  to £358. I think Just Retirement  should refund to Mrs H the amount she 
paid in excess  of that, which is around £19,000. As Mrs H has been kept out of the use of that 
money, Just Retirement should  also pay interest on it.
Mr H has said that the value of Mrs Hs property  was enhanced by the sale and development of the 
plot. Its difficult to see how the sale of a plot of land would increase the value of Mrs Hs property. I 
prefer to rely on the valuation of the independent surveyor  who valued  the post-sale property at 
£490,000.
I can quite understand that theres  been  confusion  here. Mr H says that Just Retirements  response 
to the complaint left him baffled. I think thats because one of the figures in its final response to Mrs 
H is incorrect. Just Retirement has confirmed to me that a loan to value of 41% would  have required 
a payment of £78,812, not £29,811.68 as stated  in its letter. I can see that was confusing  but that 
error doesnt alter the outcome.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is that I intend to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.  I 
intend to direct  Just Retirement Limited to refund to Mrs H the difference  between  the amount she 
paid and the amount she would have paid simply  to reduce the loan amount to 55% of the property 
value. This will be in the region of £19,000. As Mrs H has been kept out of the use of that money, it 
should also pay simple interest at the rate of
8% per year from the date Mrs H made the payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Just Retirement to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs 
H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
 
Ref: DRN9649641