K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr N. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr N disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
The sale took place  more than 16 years ago and so there are no documents surviving about 
the sale of the PPI. I also wouldnt  expect someone  to recall in detail everything  that 
happened so many years ago. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence  when 
considering the case and trying to reach a fair decision. 
Ive considered what Mr N and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I dont have evidence  that Bank of Scotland didnt make  clear to Mr N that he had a 
choice about taking PPI.
Bank of Scotland probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr N, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable  based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time.  The PPI 
could have helped  pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mr Ns employer 
sick pay and other  resources lasted. And it would  have paid out at the same time as 
any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr N more financially secure for longer. It 
would have meant Mr N wouldnt need  to fall back on other resources so soon. So, 
overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I 
cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the PPI. Its possible 
the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But I dont think,  in his circumstances,  full information about costs 
and benefits would have affected whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like 
hed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr N paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already  offered to give Mr N back  some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Mr N.
Ref: DRN98528492my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive given. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9852849