K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained about Hastings Insurance Services Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
background
Miss H took out car insurance  through Hastings who acted  as broker. Hastings sold and 
administered the policy. The policy  was underwritten by another  business  (the insurer).
The policy started  on 24 July 2018.  Miss H agreed  to pay the premium in monthly 
instalments by direct debit. For that to happen  she was required to provide her bank account 
and sort code for the direct debit to be set up. Rather than provide her account number and 
sort code,  Miss H wrongly provided the long number on her debit card. Hastings tried to set 
up the direct  debit with Miss Hs bank. But as her bank didnt recognise the digits as a valid 
account number  and sort code, the direct  debit wasnt  set up. The bank told Hastings there  
was a problem  and in turn Hastings contacted Miss H.
This happened several times and, as a result, Hastings sent Miss H numerous letters 
explaining there was a problem; warning her the policy could be cancelled; and advising her 
of ways to pay her instalments. Miss H paid three  instalments by card.  No payments were 
successfully made by direct debit.  The policy  was cancelled on two occasions in August and 
November 2018.  But on both occasions  it was reinstated very soon after.
On 17 November 2018, Hastings spoke with Miss H. They asked  her to confirm  her bank 
account and sort code.  She again gave her long card number which  Hastings used to try and 
set up her direct debit. Miss Hs bank was unable to set up the direct debit and informed 
Hastings there was a problem. Hastings wrote to Miss H on 23 November 2018, telling her 
there was a problem  and that the policy could be cancelled by 9 December. Hastings tried to 
contact Miss H by email, text and letter to ask her to make a payment. But as Miss H didnt 
respond and she missed the next payment on 3 December, Hastings cancelled  the policy on 
9 December.
Miss H complained. She said:
Since the start of the policy  Hastings cancelled and reinstated  it a number of times. 
They also sent her different  payment  schedules  showing different payments each 
time. She said she emailed Hastings  several  times asking for clarification but she 
was ignored.
Hastings wrongly cancelled the policy.
Hastings changed  her policy address without her permission and then attempted to 
charge her for doing so. Shes  unhappy  that Hastings couldnt  explain how they got 
her new address without her telling them about it. 
Hastings upheld Miss Hs complaint  in part. They initially thought that the problems with the 
direct debit and the policy  cancelling was due to a technical problem they had with their 
system. But they said the final cancellation on 9 December 2018 was reasonable. Hastings 
said they couldnt explain how they got Miss Hs new address. But they said under the policy  
she was required to inform them of her change of address, so they were correct  in updating 
her policy.  
Hastings acknowledged  that Miss H had been caused inconvenience  as she spent time on  
the phone  to them trying  to sort things out. They also accepted  their service should have 
Ref: DRN94149872been better.  Hastings offered Miss H a total of £138.45 compensation. But £88.45  of that 
compensation was applied  to the policy to clear  the balance Miss H owed on cancellation. 
The remaining  £50 was sent to Miss H. Later on in January  2019,  Hastings offered Miss H a 
further £45 compensation.
Miss H didn't  think Hastings had dealt with her fairly, so she brought  her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into it. He felt that the direct debit problems and the 
cancellations were  as a result of Miss H giving her long card number instead of her account 
number and sort code.  He also said that although Hastings couldnt explain how they got 
Miss Hs new address, she didnt suffer any detriment as a result of it. As for the service  
issues, our investigator felt that the total compensation  of £183.45 offered by Hastings was 
reasonable. As Miss H didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been  passed to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Miss H, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
In her complaint, Miss H has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Hastings have dealt with Miss H in a fair and reasonable way.
Ive seen evidence  from Hastings that none  of the payments Miss H made  were  by direct 
debit. They were all made using the long card number. Its clear  that Miss H didnt give 
Hastings the correct account  number  and sort code needed for them to set up the direct 
debit. Instead  Miss H mistakenly  gave the long number on her debit card.  She confirmed that 
number as being correct during a call with Hastings on 17 November 2018. I therefore think 
the problems with the bank not being  able to set up the direct debit; the letters Hastings sent 
about the problems with the direct debit;  the cancellations and reinstatements  of the policy;  
and the different payment  schedules were not Hastings fault. I think had Miss H given the 
correct bank account and sort code all these problems could have been avoided.
Im satisfied that Hastings  followed the correct process when cancelling  the policy on 9 
December 2018.  The policy  says that if Miss H fails to make a payment the policy could be 
cancelled. They took reasonable  steps  to contact  Miss H but she didnt respond.  The 
cancelation was therefore reasonable.
In relation to Miss Hs new address. Its correct that Hastings changed Miss Hs address on 
the policy. Miss H accepted that was her new address. But she wanted an explanation as to 
how Hastings got her new address without her telling them about it. Hastings said they were 
unable to explain how they got her address. But under the policy,  Miss H was required to tell 
Hastings of her change of address. And I note that Hastings  didnt charge her for the change 
of address which they could have done. I therefore dont think  Miss H suffered any detriment 
as a result  of the change of address.
Finally, Hastings accepted that their service could  have been better. They offered Miss H a 
total of £183.45 in compensation. I think that amount is reasonable to address the service 
issues. And its in line with the level of compensation our service  awards  for complaints of 
this seriousness. Im therefore  not asking Hastings  to make any further payment.
Ref: DRN94149873my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9414987