K820x#14complaint
Through a claims management  company (CMC) Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC 
(Lloyds) mis-sold her a Select packaged  bank account (PBA). She would  like her account 
fees refunded.
background
Mrs W opened a current account with Lloyds in 1981. Sometime between January 1997  and 
September 2001, she upgraded this to a Select PBA. It would have cost either  £3 or £4 per 
month, depending on the precise date of sale, and provided a fee-free overdraft of £50. In 
1999, a roadside  assistance benefit  was added. Other features, such as purchase 
protection; payment card protection  and a modest accidental  death benefit; were  also 
included. But the headline benefits when  this was sold are likely to have been the free-free  
overdraft and the roadside  assistance.
Mrs W downgraded to a fee free account  in 2011,  and complained about the sale of the PBA 
in 2018. Her CMC gave a long list of potential complaint points, many of which werent  
relevant to the sale (such as a need for mobile phone insurance  or exclusions on travel  
insurance). Having  considered the available evidence, the adjudicator thought  that the 
Select account hadnt been mis-sold.
Mrs Ws CMC disagreed,  and responded with three points  of concern as to why it wasnt  
prepared to accept  the adjudicators view. One (around pre-existing medical conditions) isnt 
relevant as the PBA didnt  include travel insurance. One was around  whether Lloyds might 
have offered advice,  but the main  issue raised was that:
had clear  information been given about  the exclusions and limitations of the 
policy, he [sic] would not have proceeded with the purchase.
The case  has therefore been passed  to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our established  approach 
to considering complaints about  packaged bank accounts, which everyone can read on our 
website. Ive followed that in helping me decide  this case.
Im not upholding the complaint, and Ill explain  why.
The adjudicator thought  that Lloyds hadnt  given Mrs W advice or a recommendation about  
this PBA,  only information so she could decide for herself whether to buy it or not. The CMC 
replied saying this wasnt evidenced. But I dont need to make  a finding on this point in this 
decision because it makes no difference  to the outcome. Even if Lloyds  did give Mrs W a 
recommendation to buy the PBA, I dont have any information to say that would have been 
an unsuitable recommendation.
I say that because I have  seen  nothing to say that Mrs W couldnt  use the key benefits  of the 
Select PBA when  she took it out. The earliest  bank statements  available  to me show  that 
she frequently used  an overdraft facility. So that benefit seems to have been useful to her. 
Her CMC originally said she didnt drive  or own a car, but her bank statements show  
Ref: DRN92934462frequent purchases from petrol stations.  As this sale happened  approximately 20 years ago, 
I dont have the full details  of the roadside assistance. But the earliest  available  terms and 
conditions for this cover show it could  be used either  as a passenger  or a driver. So its more 
likely than not that, even if Mrs W wasnt driving the cars for which  she seems to have been 
buying petrol, the benefit could still have been of use to her.
These specific points were made by the adjudicator  in her view, but the CMC has not dealt 
with them.
I accept that it is possible, indeed likely, that Lloyds did not give Mrs W full and clear  
information about every aspect of the PBA. But I also have no evidence to suggest that the 
non-specific exclusions and limitations  of the policy referred to by the CMC would have 
in any way deterred Mrs W from agreeing to the account.
It therefore follows that I dont think the PBA was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds doesnt  need to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9293446