K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS") mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ps credit  card account when he applied for the card by filling in a paper  application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr P told us hes unhappy that he paid for PPI as he had excellent  sick pay benefits through  
work and other insurance he couldve relied  on  so he didn't need PPI as well. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
I think RBS made Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I say 
this because on the credit card application  he completed there were a range of optional 
extras offered on the form. It looks like he chose not to sign up for all the options that were 
offered with the card. But where it says CARD PAYMENT PROTECTION theres  a brief 
description of the cover  offered  and it says For cover just tick this box. I can see that the 
application has been ticked here indicating  that Mr P wanted to take out PPI to protect  his 
credit card repayments. He also signed the completed application at the end indicating that 
he agreed with the information on the form. If he hadnt wanted PPI Mr P couldve left the 
PPI option unticked. 
RBS didnt advise  Mr P to take out the policy. So it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But it still had to make sure that it gave  Mr P clear enough information so he was able 
to make a proper decision about  whether PPI was right for him. And if this didnt happen,  
then I have to think  about  whether this made any overall difference  to Mr P.
Ive taken into account what Mr P told us about  his sick pay entitlement.  The policy wouldve 
paid more than his minimum credit card repayments  for up to 12 months per claim in the 
event of accident or sickness  on top of any work  benefits. As Mr P mightve also had some  
additional costs  if he was too unwell  to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been 
a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially as hed only have got 75% of his usual pay 
after 26 weeks off work.  
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Ps credit  card repayments  if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ref: DRN93017902Ive taken into account that Mr P also mentioned having some other insurance set up but this 
doesnt affect my decision. I havent  seen  anything to show that he already had PPI in place 
that covered his credit card monthly  repayments. Its likely that a permanent health  policy  
provided a different sort of benefit  and paid out in different  circumstances to PPI. So I can 
see why Mr P mightve thought PPI offered him worthwhile  benefits and I think  he couldve 
benefitted from the policy. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. There were some  things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied 
in Mr Ps case. So, I dont  think having more information about things the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve affected his decision  to have PPI.
I dont think its likely  that RBS properly explained  the policy cost, or what it might pay out if 
Mr P made a claim. But Mr P chose to take out the policy  when he didnt have to and so it 
appears to me that he did want this type of cover at the time - even if hes forgotten this now.  
And, looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered  Mr P, I think it unlikely he wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  
On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy. So even if there were some  failings in 
the way RBS sold this policy to Mr P I dont find hes any worse  off as a result.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9301790