K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that a used car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall 
Finance plc wasnt of satisfactory quality and he wishes to reject  it.
background 
In December 2018 Mr W entered into a four year conditional sale agreement  for a used car. 
The car was around  two and half years old and had a mileage of just under 19,000.
At the end of December 2018  Mr W took the car back  to the dealership  as he said it had an 
engine fault, but no fault could be found.
In January 2019 Mr W returned the car to the dealership as the Engine Management Light 
(EML) had illuminated on the dash. Following an investigation a fault with the EGR was 
found and the part was replaced.
Mr W says the car suffered with issues with its ABS, and parking sensors, with warning lights  
intermittently illuminating on the cars dash. He took photos of these lights when  they were  
showing on the dash.  Mr W also says the front parking sensor  would operate  without any 
obstruction in front of the car when he was driving normally and in the end he had to switch  it off.
In March 2019 Mr W took the car back to the dealership for it to investigate.  It carried out 
diagnostic checks but could find no fault codes,  nor could it replicate  the issues  described 
by Mr W.
Mr W complained  to Vauxhall Finance who didnt uphold his complaint. It said no faults could  
be found with the car.
Mr W was unhappy at Vauxhall Finances response  and complained to this service. Vauxhall 
Finance agreed  to have the car independently inspected.
The independent engineer couldnt find any fault with the ABS and said that the brake 
system worked correctly.  However, during the test drive the independent engineer did 
experience the parking sensor warning light being displayed one time on the dash  without 
reason. The independent  engineer said it was likely there was an electrical  issue that 
required further investigation and repair.
In light of the findings of the independent engineer Vauxhall Finance agreed to repair  the 
parking sensor  at no cost to Mr W and also to pay him £50 as compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused by having the fault with the car.
Our adjudicator said he thought this settlement offer was fair. He said under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 Vauxhall Finance was entitled to have an opportunity  to repair  the car. Our 
adjudicator said although Mr W had taken the car back  to the dealership and no fault could 
be found he thought it was fair for Vauxhall Finance to now have the opportunity to repair the 
car. And that it would be unreasonable for Mr W to now be able to reject the car.
Our adjudicator said Mr W had been  able to use that car and that he thought  £50 
compensation was fair for the distress and inconvenience caused by Mr W having to deal 
with the intermittent fault. 
Ref: DRN99976022Mr W disagreed  with our adjudicators view. He said hed taken the car back  to the 
dealership on multiple  occasions and the faults  hadnt been repaired. Hed also had to spend 
money repairing  the brakes and having  the car serviced. Mr W said he either wanted to be 
able to reject  the car, or have his payments under the agreement reimbursed together with 
what he had paid out for the car so far.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance agreement, that is the conditional sale agreement, in this case  is a regulated 
consumer  credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating 
to it. Vauxhall Finance is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, 
and responsible for a complaint  about  their quality.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  which is the relevant law there is an implied term that 
quality  of supplied  goods  is satisfactory".  And that the quality of the goods is satisfactory 
if they meet the standard  that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking 
into account  any description  of the goods,  price  and all other  relevant circumstances. So 
it seems likely that in a case  involving a car, the other relevant circumstances to take into 
account might  include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicle's history.
Also under the relevant  law the quality  of the goods includes their general state  and 
condition and other things like their fitness for purpose,  appearance and finish,  freedom 
from minor  defects,  safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here  the car was two and half years  old and had a mileage  of around  19,000  so I think  a 
reasonable  person  would  expect  some  issues  with repair  and maintenance  to arise.
Ive seen  that Mr W raised  issues  with the car within  a few weeks  of him acquiring  it. A 
fault was identified  with the EGR  which  had caused  the EML  to illuminate  on the dash  
and this was repaired  which  I understand  was successful.  However,  Mr W also 
complained  that the ABS fault light would  illuminate  at times  as would  the parking  sensor  
fault light.  The dealership  was unable  to replicate  the faults  with the ABS,  or the parking  
sensor  and it wasnt  able to find any fault codes.
I think  intermittent  faults  are difficult  to diagnose  so, although  I appreciate  Mr Ws 
frustration  at the dealerships  inability  to fix them,  Im not surprised  that it couldnt  
replicate  the warning  lights  illuminating.  
I dont  think  its disputed  that theres  an intermittent  issue  with the cars  front parking  
sensor  that was present  at the point  of sale.  The findings  of the independent  engineer  
corroborated  the complaint  raised  by Mr W. However,  although  the car had a fault,  this 
doesnt  mean  that Mr W is automatically  entitled  to reject  it.
Ref: DRN99976023Under  the relevant  law the retailer  must  have  an opportunity  to repair  and although  the car 
has been  investigated  by the dealership  already  I think  in these  circumstances  that it would  
be unreasonable  not to allow  Vauxhall  Finance  a chance  to repair  the fault.  Looking  at the 
nature  of the fault which  was intermittent  and that Mr W has been  able to use the car I dont  
think  it would  be proportionate  for him to reject  it without  a repair  being  attempted.
Ive seen  that Mr W says  he has had the brakes  repaired  and, although  Ive not seen  the 
invoice,  Im assuming  these  repairs  were  in respect  of the MOT  advisories  listed  in June  
2019  regarding  the brake  pads  being  worn.  These  type of repairs  are serviceable  items  
that is they are components  of the car that get worn  through  wear  and tear and require  
regular  maintenance.  Looking  at the additional  mileage  Mr W had undertaken  at the time 
of the MOT  (7,000  miles)  I think  a reasonable  person  would  expect  a car of that age and 
mileage  to need  maintenance  and repairs  to the brakes.  So I dont  think  its reasonable  to 
require  Vauxhall  Finance  to cover  this cost.
Mr W has also raised  the cost of having  the car serviced  but under  the agreement  
keeping  the car serviced  and maintained  is his responsibility.  As Mr W has been  able to 
drive  the car, although  he had to disable  the front parking  sensor,  I think  its reasonable  
that he bears  the costs  of doing  so. Maintenance  and services  are an expected  cost of 
running  a car. So, I dont  think  its fair to require  Vauxhall  Finance  to reimburse  Mr W 
these  costs.
Mr W says  the £50 compensation  is insufficient  to reflect  the trouble  and inconvenience  
the car has caused  him. But I have  seen  he has achieved  the average  mileage  since  
acquiring  it. The fault with the sensor  was annoying,  but the dealership  did attempt  to find 
the problem.  It ran diagnostic  tests  and tried to replicate  the error  message.  I think  that 
£50 compensation  is reasonable  to reflect  the impact  this fault has had on Mr W.
So, for the reasons  given  above  Im not going  to ask Vauxhall  Finance  to do more  and I 
think  the settlement  offered  to Mr W is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I find that the settlement agreed by Vauxhall Finance plc was 
fair and Im asking it to do the following:
Investigate  and repair the fault with the front parking sensor at no cost to Mr W.
Pay Mr W £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by him having to deal with 
the fault with the car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9997602