K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc trading  as Tesco  Bank failed to transfer 
money from his account.
background
Mr H says he tried to transfer money  online from his Tesco account on 1 February  2019  but 
the transaction failed. He says Tescos  failure to transfer the money  caused  him problems 
and distress and meant he had to contact it by telephone. Mr H would  like compensation for 
what took place  and the impact the mistake  in Tescos systems had upon him.
Tesco says Mr H is only allowed to transfer up to £10,000 from his account in a day and that 
he had exceeded  that amount on 1 February  2019. It says when Mr H called, it did authorise 
the transfer and explained  what had happened. Tesco says it offered Mr H £20 
compensation for what took place.
Mr H brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. The adjudicator  thought 
the account terms and conditions  made clear that up to £10,000 could be transferred from 
an account in a day and Mr H had exceeded that amount. The adjudicator  thought the 
compensation was fair and reasonable but that Tesco  hadnt  made  a mistake be blocking 
the transfer.
Mr H is unhappy with that view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr H will be disappointed  with my decision.
I have looked  at Mr Hs account terms and conditions which  I think  he would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And Im satisfied those terms and conditions  make clear that 
a maximum of £10,000 can be transferred out of an account within a 24 hour period. I think 
thats what took place here that Mr H transferred up to his daily limit on 1 February 2019 and 
Tesco prevented  the further  attempted £1,000 transfer. So I dont think Tesco made a 
mistake by blocking that transfer and Im satisfied it acted in line with the agreed account 
terms and conditions.
I appreciate that caused Mr H some inconvenience in having  to contact Tesco.  But for the 
reasons I have explained I dont think that was Tescos  fault.  And I can see in any event 
Tesco did authorise  the transfer and paid Mr H £20 compensation in circumstances where I 
dont think it needed  to as I dont think it made a mistake or acted unfairly.
Overall Im satisfied that the account terms and conditions were clear  and so I cant fairly  
order Tesco  to pay Mr H the compensation he would  like.
Ref: DRN92877442my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9287744