K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc refused to freeze  interest on her 
account when  she told them  she was experiencing financial difficulties.
background
Ms G first experienced financial difficulties during the summer  of 2017 and missed some  
payments on her credit card with RBS.
Ms G contacted RBS in November 2017  and explained she was finding it difficult  to pay. She 
asked RBS to stop applying  interest  to her account.  RBS refunded  some  late payments 
charges and agreed a repayment plan with Ms G. It also provided  Ms G with details of 
money advice services that might be able to help her.
Ms G says she was unable to make  the repayments she had agreed.  Her account was 
closed.
Ms G sought help from a third party organisation and a repayment  plan was put in place with 
a third party debt collection agency  in April 2018.
Ms G doesnt feel that shes been treated fairly  by RBS. She says that the banks  refusal to 
freeze interest put her in financial hardship and her credit rating  has been impacted. Ms G 
wants RBS to refund interest from November 2017 and remove any adverse entries from her 
credit file.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that RBS had made reasonable efforts 
to help Ms G when she made them aware  of her financial difficulties.
Ms G didnt agree. She said she asked RBS to stop charging interest but it continued to 
apply charges after the account had been  closed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Ms Gs situation but I cant see that RBS has done anything  wrong.  RBS is 
entitled to charge interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ms G thinks RBS acted unfairly  by continuing  to charge interest after she told them she was 
in financial difficulties. She said she asked for interest to be frozen  and followed the advice 
she had been  given by a third party money advice service.
In circumstances  where a customer tells a business they are experiencing financial 
difficulties I would expect  the business  to respond  positively and sympathetically. I can see 
that RBS tried to help Ms G by refunding late payment charges and agreeing a repayment 
plan. It also gave Ms G time to seek help from a money advice service. I understand why Ms 
G wanted interest frozen. But even when customers are in financial difficulties, banks dont 
have to refund charges or freeze  interest. So I cant fairly say that RBS did anything  wrong  in 
continuing to apply interest to the account.
Ref: DRN93957242I can see Ms G asked  RBS to freeze interest again in January  2018. At this time,  RBS told 
Ms G it needed a completed financial statement  from her. Ms G sent this to the bank in 
February 2018 and the bank responded and asked  her to put forward  an offer of payment 
taking into account  all of her other debts and liabilities. I cant  see that Ms G ever replied  to 
RBs with an offer and at the end of March  2018  the account was defaulted and passed to a 
debt collection agency.
I cant say that RBS acted  unfairly  in defaulting  the account because Ms G had failed to 
make the agreed  repayments towards  the end of 2017  and had failed to contact  the bank 
with an offer of payment.
I understand that Ms G will be disappointed  with my decision  but for the reasons Ive given I 
dont think RBS has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9395724