K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont  refund four payments made using her 
credit card. She says she neither made nor authorised them. 
background
Miss M has had a Capital  One credit card for several years.  On 27 June 2018 it was used  to 
make four retail purchases,  ranging from 90p to just under £1,700.  The total spent was 
nearly £1,900.  
The final and largest purchase triggered a fraud alert, and Capital One sent a text message 
to Miss M asking her to confirm whether or not she had made the purchase. She responded 
about 40 minutes later to say that she hadnt. 
Capital One looked into the matter but concluded that Miss M probably  had been responsible  
for the purchases.  It said her genuine card had been  used together with the correct PIN. 
Miss M said that she still had her card and that she didnt keep a record of her PIN, other  
than in disguised  form on her phone. She had been at work  at the time of the transactions. 
She thought  her card must have been  cloned.  
Miss M referred  the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. She 
thought it most likely that Miss M had consented to someone making  the transactions. Miss 
M didnt accept the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review  them.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Miss M believes  that her card may have been  copied, or cloned. Capital Ones records 
show however that the chip embedded in the card was read. Whilst its relatively 
straightforward to copy information  from a magnetic  stripe on a card and to copy it to a stripe 
on another card, reproducing  a card chip is a very different matter.  The fact that the chip was 
read when  the transactions were  made  is, therefore, a very strong  indication  that the 
genuine card was present. I believe that it was. It cant therefore have been  in Miss Ms 
purse when  the purchases were made, and its very unlikely  too that it was in her purse 
when she replied to Capital Ones text message. 
Miss M says that she didnt keep a record of her PIN  other than on her phone in a 
disguised format. The PIN isnt kept in unencrypted form on the card itself, and its unlikely 
that whoever had Miss Ms card could have guessed the PIN. 
Miss M has provided confirmation that she was at work at the time of the payments, and has 
backed that up with a copy of an email she sent at the time of the last transaction. I accept 
therefore that she didnt make  the transactions herself. Someone else did, but they used  her 
card and her PIN. 
I must therefore consider how someone  could have obtained Miss Ms card and known her 
PIN and why Miss M told Capital One she had her card with her when in fact she didnt. For 
the reasons Ive explained, its most unlikely that whoever made the payments had the card 
Ref: DRN96725372without her knowledge. I think it likely too that Miss M told them what  the PIN was. So, whilst 
I accept that Miss M didnt make the payments  herself, I think they probably were  made  with 
her knowledge  and consent.  In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require Capital One 
to refund them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require Capital One (Europe) 
plc to do anything  more to resolve Miss Ms complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision before 
2 January 2020
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9672537