K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Assurant General Insurance Limited turned down a claim made on his 
gadget insurance  policy.
background
Towards the end of 2018, Mr M had his notebook computer (the notebook) stolen from his 
car. He sought to make a claim on his gadget  insurance policy.
Assurant declined the claim as it says Mr M has been unable to establish his claim as he 
failed to provide  necessary proof that he owned  the notebook. Mr M says thats unfair  as he 
has provided a handwritten cash invoice (the invoice) showing he bought  the notebook 
whilst abroad but Assurant hasnt accepted that as valid proof of ownership.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. He disagrees so the complaint has been 
passed to me to look at everything  afresh and make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
If a gadget is stolen  it can be replaced under the policy.  However, the policy  also says some  
form of proof of ownership is required to show that the gadget being claimed for belongs to 
the policyholder.  
proof of ownership could include a till receipt or documentation from any online 
purchase... if you dont  have any proof  of ownership  we may decline your claim.
So in this particular  case, I dont think Assurant  has acted  unreasonably by relying on this 
clause to decline Mr Ms claim. I think its fairly concluded that the invoice provided by Mr M 
isnt equivalent  to a till receipt  and its a document that can be easily edited. And in the 
absence of any further evidence Mr M hasnt established that he owned the notebook to 
satisfy the claim. 
When making this finding Ive taken into account that Mr M says Assurant accepted the 
invoice as proof of purchase when first insuring the notebook. Ive listened to the call when  
Mr M added the notebook to the policy. Assurants representative didnt ask him for a copy of 
the receipt or ask any questions about it. It asked for other information such as the make and 
model of the notebook and date of purchase.
I also note during that call Mr M checked the receipt  and confirmed he bought  the notebook 
on 10 October 2016. But thats  different  to the date of the invoice hes provided Assurant in 
support of his claim. 
So, all in all, I dont  think Assurant has unfairly declined Mr Ms claim based on the 
information it currently has. 
Ref: DRN90752772my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9075277