K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that CIS General Insurance Limited settled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy as 50/50 split liability. She wants the fault claim removed from her record, 
her No Claims Discount (NCD) restored and compensation.
background
Ms A was involved in a low impact  collision  with another driver.  CIS settled the claim as 
50/50 split liability.  CIS said Ms A had told it that both parties were reversing at the time and 
she accepted  split liability. CIS agreed  that it hadnt  told Ms A that it had settled  the claim as 
split liability at the time and it sent letters to the wrong address. It paid Ms A £50 
compensation for this. But Ms A remained unhappy. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  CIS 
was entitled to decide how to settle the claim.  She thought it had reasonably considered  the 
evidence available  in doing this. And she thought its offer of £50 compensation for sending 
the letters incorrectly was fair and reasonable.
Ms A replied that she disagreed as she thought there wasnt  any evidence to justify CIS 
decision. She said she was stationary at the time of the accident and so the other driver, 
who hadnt challenged the decision,  was to blame. She said they hadnt been  asked for their 
versions of events. She said CIS had ignored  her photographic evidence and hadnt asked 
for evidence  of the other drivers damage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A has raised concerns  about  the insurance  industry as a whole and its practices.  But it 
isnt my role to respond  to these concerns. By role is to review  Ms As complaint about CIS 
and to make  a final decision based on the available evidence and arguments. 
I can also see that Ms A has raised  concerns about another business.  But I cant  consider 
that here as its a separate  business.   
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
CIS is entitled under the terms  and conditions of its policy  with Ms A to take over,  defend, or 
settle a claim as it sees fit. Ms A has to follow its advice in connection  with the settlement of 
her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
That said we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim before making its decision 
on liability. 
Ref: DRN94047532From what  I can see, the claim  was first notified  to CIS by the other insurer and CIS 
contacted Ms A to discuss it. CIS said that Ms A and the other  insurer  had said both parties 
were reversing at the time. Ms A told us that she never said this or that she accepted  split 
liability. 
We asked CIS for its call recordings but unfortunately it hasnt been able to provide these  in 
a format that I can listen to. But I have  been  able to see CIS file notes completed at the 
time. These have also been passed to Ms A. 
I think the notes say that CIS consistently  told Ms A that the claim would  be settled as split 
liability. The notes record that Ms A accepted  split liability as there were no witnesses. They  
also state that Ms A thought she wasnt at fault as she was driving with greater care and 
attention than the other driver. She also raised concerns about  the other driver, but I dont 
think these are relevant  to the collision  or the liability dispute. 
Ms A thought CIS should obtain  the parties signed versions of events. But I cant see what  
these would have  added  as I think the accident circumstances werent in dispute and Ms A 
had opportunity to describe her recollections.  
CIS said that as both parties were  reportedly reversing at the time, then responsibility for the 
accident was shared.  
Ms A had said that she was stationary at the time of the collision as she was changing 
gears. But CIS said it would need evidence that shed been stationary for some period of 
time before the collision in order to hold the other  driver  fully at fault. 
I think that was fair and reasonable.  I think both parties agreed they were reversing at the 
time. I dont think a momentary  pause to change  gears would mean the manoeuvre had 
been completed. 
There was no independent witness evidence for CIS to consider. But Ms A later said that 
there was CCTV evidence available. I cant see evidence that this was raised with CIS at the 
time. Theres no guarantee that the camera would have recorded the collision. But CIS didnt  
think this would add anything as the circumstances werent in dispute. I think  that this was 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Ms A said CIS should consider photographs of damage to the cars. But I think it reasonably 
said this wouldnt show that she was stationary at the time. Ms A was also concerned about 
the repair costs  incurred by the other  driver.  But I dont think  these are unreasonable for a 
low impact collision compared with other claims Ive seen. So I cant  say it was wrong  for 
CIS to pay its share. 
So I think CIS reasonably  investigated the claim before  making its decision to split liability,  
as its entitled  to do by the policy terms and conditions. So I cant say its done anything  
wrong or needs  to change its decision. 
I also think CIS apology and offer of £50 compensation  for its failings with Ms As address is 
fair and reasonable as its in keeping  with what Id require in similar circumstances.  I dont 
require it to do anything  further. 
Ref: DRN94047533my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9404753