K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) handling 
of her car insurance policy.
Reference to AA includes their agents.
background
Mrs Bs car was insured with AA. Her policy was taken out through an insurance broker (also 
referred to as an intermediary).
Mrs B was involved  in an accident  on a motorway on 26 August 2018. The other  driver  later 
accepted being at fault. Mrs Bs car, together with her personal possessions  inside it, was 
removed by the police and taken  into their storage. As directed by her policy  documents,  
Mrs B called the broker on 27 August to report the accident. The broker  took all the 
necessary details about the accident and said they would normally pass her onto their AA 
colleagues  to complete an incident report and to explain  the next steps. The broker  
explained that as it was a bank holiday AA were closed so the broker would pass on the 
information to them by email. During  the call Mrs B told the broker  that her personal 
possessions were in the car as well her young daughters child seat.
The broker  said they would refer her to a specialist company  to see if they were willing to 
give Mrs B a hire car as she needed to remain  mobile.  The specialist company the broker 
was referring to is what is known as a credit hire company.  That credit hire company is a 
separate business to AA and the broker. The broker told Mrs B that if her own car was 
assessed by AA as being  a total loss, she wouldnt be entitled to a courtesy car under her 
policy. Mrs B said she was aware  of that. The broker explained  that a hire car through the 
credit hire company would be free to her provided  the credit  hire company were satisfied  
Mrs B wasnt  at fault for the accident.  Mrs B agreed  to be referred to the credit  hire company. 
I understand that soon after the broker referred Mrs B the credit hire company contacted the 
other drivers  insurer  who said they were holding Mrs B responsible  for the accident.  For that 
reason the credit hire company didnt provide Mrs B with a hire car. Mrs Bs claim was 
therefore left to be dealt with in its entirety by AA under her policy.
Mrs B next called AA on 27 August to discuss  her claim. Mrs B told AA where the police had 
taken her car. AA said they would arrange for it to be taken to one of their approved 
repairers (AR) that was local to Mrs B. AA said their AR would assess  the car to see if it was 
repairable. They said if it was a total loss AA would pay her the cars value. AA said the AR 
would call her within 24 hours.
When Mrs Bs car was assessed by the AR it was found to be a total loss. AA initially  offered 
Mrs B £7,000 as being her cars value. But after she objected AA increased their offer a 
number of times until they made  a final offer of £7,500. Mrs B remained unhappy  and 
complained as she felt her car was worth more. She was also unhappy with a number  of 
things, including: AAs service; she had to keep  chasing for updates and calling the various 
parties involved; AA were  responsible for the other  driver initially not accepting  liability;  the 
hire car issue was handled poorly; AA wrongly told her that she couldnt claim for the 
damage to her personal possessions when she clearly could under the policy; and AA failed 
to tell her she was entitled to a replacement child seat and that hers shouldnt be used as it 
was in her car when  the accident happened.
Ref: DRN95720142AA looked into Mrs Bs complaint. They said they would process  her claim for her damaged 
personal possessions  and a replacement child seat.  They also accepted  there has been  
some miscommunication  and they offered her £50 compensation  for loss  of use without  a 
vehicle. As Mrs B didnt think AA dealt with her fairly, she brought  her complaint to our 
service. One of our adjudicators looked  into it. She felt that AA had dealt with Mrs B fairly. As 
Mrs B didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 30 April 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
total loss valuation
Mrs Bs policy says that where her car is a total loss, AA must  pay her the pre-
accident market  value of it. I feel that the starting  point when trying  to establish the 
market value of a car is to look at the industry trade guides and that is what  AA said 
they did. The guides are based  on extensive  nationwide research of likely  selling 
prices. When  AA wrote to Mrs B with their final decision on her complaint, they said:  
Regarding your pre-accident valuation, we use the retail  values  supplied  by 
the guides. This is to confirm we are in line with the Financial  Ombudsman 
Service (FOS)  guidelines.
The FOS would review  the retail value supplied by [names of three  of the 
guides].
They would base  their value on an average of the three guides and would not 
usually rely on examples  in the market.  The average of the three guides is 
£7355.00. The retail value would be based  on the vehicle being immaculate.
As we have  offered in line with the higher of the three guides,  £7500.00 I am 
not able to increase the offer further.
AA first offered Mrs B £7,000. When she objected they increased the valuation first to 
£7,300, then to £7,400 and finally to £7,500. Our adjudicator independently  checked  
the three guides  AA used and additionally  a fourth one. And she found the final offer 
AA made  was above the average  of the guides. I therefore think  AAs final offer was 
reasonable.
But as AA told Mrs B they were  aware  that our usual approach is to use an average  
of the guides.  And having looked at three of the guides AA concluded the average 
was £7,355. But its not clear to me why they didnt  offer that amount  from the start. 
Their offers  of £7,000 and £7,300 were both below the average  of the guides. And it 
was only as a result of Mrs Bs persistence  and her belief that the offers  were  
unreasonable that AA increased their offer. Mrs B said she had never before made a 
car insurance claim and she was unfamiliar how things worked. And I understand 
that she has no in depth knowledge  of how the motor insurance industry or how car 
valuations work. When Mrs B challenged the valuations AA told her she could submit 
her own evidence to show  why she felt their offers  were too low. While ordinarily I 
think its fair for an insurer to give a policyholder  an opportunity, as AA did in this 
case, to demonstrate why they felt a valuation was inaccurate, I think  AAs first 
valuation should  have been reasonable but because it was below the average it 
wasnt. And I think increasing the valuation a number of times in quick succession 
Ref: DRN95720143caused Mrs B to lose faith in AA and suspect  that they were holding back  on a fair 
valuation and only reacting to her objections.
I understand Mrs B paid £8,000 for the car only a matter of weeks  before the 
accident and she was expecting a valuation  nearer to that figure. She referred  to a 
number of adverts of cars similar to hers that were for sale for more than £7,500. But 
often advertised prices are inflated to allow for negotiation. So its unlikely a cars 
advertised price is the actual price it was sold for. Thats why the insurance industry 
and our service think the trade guides are more accurate.
Im aware that Mrs B thought AA when considering the valuation  of her car used  an 
inaccurate mileage reading.  Her car at the time of loss had 23,000  miles. But the 
engineers report  on the car said it had 40,000 miles. That was clearly a mistake  but 
Ive seen that the mileage used for the valuations was the correct one. The condition 
Mrs Bs car was also considered to be of showroom quality.  I only mention this 
because both a cars  mileage and its condition can have a significant impact on its 
value. So, having  considered all the available evidence Im convinced that AAs final 
valuation of £7,500 was reasonable and I dont intend to ask them  to increase  that. 
But I do intend to find that the way they dealt  with the initial  valuations  was 
unreasonable for the reasons Ive explained  above. So I intend  to uphold  this 
element of the complaint  in part.
personal possessions
Mrs B said some of her possessions  that were in her car at the time of the accident 
were damaged. But AA told her she couldnt  claim for those  as they werent  covered 
under her policy. Mrs B read her policy and found  that the possessions she had 
claimed for were in fact covered under her policy. AA subsequently paid her claim. 
Mrs B was upset she was misinformed  and she had to read the policy  herself and 
convince AA she had a valid claim. So I don't think  it was reasonable that AA 
misinformed her initially. I therefore intend to uphold this aspect of Mrs Bs complaint.
child car seat
At the time of the accident Mrs Bs children  were in her car. Her youngest  child was 
sat in a child car seat. When Mrs B first reported the accident she told the call 
handler that her child seat was in the car. Mrs B discovered after reading her policy 
terms that AA were required to pay for a replacement seat in the event the child seat 
was in the car at the time of the accident.  But When Mrs B spoke with AA they didn't 
advise her of that. She said once the child seat was retrieved from her car she 
continued to use it which she believes was unsafe  to do so. Mrs B said that AA 
should have advised her at the start that it was potentially  unsafe to use the child 
seat and that they would pay for a replacement. After Mrs B raised  that with AA they 
paid pay for a replacement child seat.  But Mrs B feels  AAs failure to tell her was 
unreasonable and potentially put her child at risk. I think AA should  have told her she 
had cover under her policy for the child seat.  For that reason I intend to uphold this 
part of the complaint. 
the other drivers initial  denial  of liability
Mrs B wasnt  at fault for the accident.  And the other driver eventually accepted that. 
When Mrs B first spoke to the broker they referred her to a credit hire company with 
Ref: DRN95720144the intention of getting Mrs B a hire car. The credit hire company would only do that if 
the other driver or their insurer admitted liability. So, I understand when the broker 
referred the matter  to the credit  hire company, the credit hire company contacted 
either the other driver  or their insurer to ask if they accepted  being  at fault for the 
accident. The other party didnt accept liability and said Mrs B was at fault. Mrs B 
said she believed that happened because AA contacted the other  party too soon  
after the accident when they were still in shock.  The other driver had two very young  
children in their car when  it turned over.  Mrs B believed that early  contact  agitated 
the other party and caused them to become adversarial. But as our adjudicator 
correctly said, that contact with the other  party was made by the credit hire company 
and not by AA. And AA are a separate business to the credit hire company. And the 
credit hire company wasnt  acting  on behalf of AA as their agent.  So, I cant  hold AA 
responsible for the actions of the credit hire company. If Mrs B is unhappy with any 
aspect of the credit hire companys  service she will have to take that up with them. 
Im therefore  not intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
poor service and replacement car
Mrs B was told during  her first call that if her car was repairable  she would be entitled 
to a courtesy  car under  her policy provided it was being repaired by one of AAs ARs.  
She was also told that if her car was a total loss she wouldnt be entitled  to a 
courtesy car. But without  her car being assessed  by an engineer it wasnt  known 
whether or not her car was repairable or a total loss.
When Mrs B spoke  with AA on 28 August 2018,  AAs call handler told her the car 
would be recovered  from the location  it was taken to by the police and delivered to an 
AR that was local to Mrs B to be assessed. AA told Mrs B that the AR would call 
Mrs B within 24 hours.
From AAs contact notes I have seen  that they started their attempts to retrieve 
Mrs Bs car on 28 August 2018.  Given the accident happened in the early  evening on 
Sunday 26 August and 27 August 2018 was a Bank Holiday, I dont think  that was 
unreasonable. But AA clearly had difficulties in recovering the car. The notes arent 
completely clear as to why that was the case. But there is a suggestion that there 
were difficulties on the part of AAs recovery agents  and the task had to be 
reallocated to different recovery agents on a number of occasions. But AA have told 
us that the storage agent that had the car was being  uncooperative.  And because  by 
31 August the car hadnt been recovered,  I can see that AA hired a car for Mrs B 
from 31 August. The invoice Ive seen shows the car was hired from 31 August to 7 
September 2018.
AA told us that Mrs Bs car was delivered  to the AR on 6 September 2017. Although 
the notes suggest it was delivered on 7 September 2018. The car was assessed and 
deemed a total loss. The hire car provided to Mrs B was ended on 7 September. And 
as the car was not repairable she wasnt given a courtesy car. I understand that the 
£50 compensation  AA offered Mrs B was for the five days  from 26 to 30 August 2018 
during which  she was without her car or a replacement car. That equates  to £10 for 
each day which our service considers to be a reasonable amount to cover  public 
transport costs. The invoice Ive seen indicates a hire car was provided  to Mrs B from 
31 August to 7 September 2018 when the car was deemed a total loss. Given  the car 
was a total loss Mrs B wasnt entitled  to a courtesy car under her policy. So, I think  if 
her car had been  delivered to the AR sooner  than it had it would have still been a 
Ref: DRN95720145total loss and Mrs B wouldnt have  been entitled  to a courtesy car. I therefore think  
AAs actions of providing Mrs B with compensation and a hire car from 26 August to 
7 September 2018 were reasonable. Although I think  AA could have done better to 
keep Mrs B informed as to what was happening and why there  was a delay in 
recovering her car.
When Mrs Bs car was taken from the scene of the accident into police storage she 
didnt have an opportunity to collect  her possessions from her car. The car was taken 
to a location that was a considerable distance  from where Mrs B lived. Mrs B 
mentioned this when  she made her very first call. She said she wanted  to recover her 
property but that she didnt  have  a car to travel to do that. I think it would have been 
helpful for AA to offer her help in recovering her property.  AA told us that they 
couldnt do much because the car was in the possession of the police. But I think 
they could have told Mrs B that once AA collected the car, which they clearly  were 
going to do, and delivered it to an AR that was local to Mrs B, she could have either  
collected her property from the AR or AA could have  helped with the return of the 
property to Mrs B. Either option would  have been more convenient to Mrs B than 
having to go to where the police had stored  the car. I understand one of Mrs Bs 
relatives made the trip to recover her possessions which  could have been  avoided 
had AA offered  their assistance.
Im aware that during  the time of the accident  Mrs B was going through a difficult 
period of time where  she had significant turmoil in her personal life. And she told AA 
about that. So I can understand the accident and subsequent claims process must 
have been distressing and inconvenient  for her. Ive seen Mrs Bs phone  records  and 
she did make a high number of calls to various parties including  AA, the police, the 
AR and others involved in an attempt to get things resolved. AA have accepted there  
were communication problems and I think overall the service provided to Mrs B, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, could have been  better. I think  the £50 
compensation offered by AA doesnt go far enough  so I intend to require them to pay 
a further £200 taking  the total compensation to £250.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mrs B accepted  my provisional findings.  
But AA didnt comment. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require esure  Insurance  
Limited to pay Mrs B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced. This is in addition to the £50 they have already paid her. This should  be paid 
within 28 days of us telling them that Mrs B has accepted  my final decision. If they pay later 
than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision  to the 
date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
1 If AA consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
Ref: DRN95720146Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept
or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
interest, they should tell Mrs B how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN9572014