K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr and Mrs G took out in 2002 alongside their mortgage 
with Abbey National. The policy protected  Mr G against accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.
In 2006, Mr and Mrs G took out a further  advance  on their mortgage account. Around the 
same time, the policy was amended. They  bought some additional benefit  the amount of 
monthly benefit the policy would pay out increased  by £100. And Mrs G was added to the 
policy - from then on, Mr and Mrs G shared the policy  benefits  equally. 
So this meant that the value of Mr Gs cover was reduced by 50%. 
Santander merged  with Abbey National so, to keep things simpler, Ill just refer to Santander 
in my decision.
Mr and Mrs G said they were  strongly  advised  by Santander to take out the policy in case of 
unemployment or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Gs initial  complaint that Santander  mis-sold  them  
PPI with their mortgage. But our adjudicator  thought that Mr and Mrs G had lost out when 
the policy was amended  to include Mrs G  because she hadnt been eligible for it. Our 
adjudicator felt that Santander was responsible for what happened and that it should take 
steps to put things right for Mr and Mrs G. 
Santander says the policy amendment in 2006  was not a new sale but an instruction from 
Mr G to amend an existing policy. And amendments to an existing policy  can only be done 
by the policy  administrators   so it isnt responsible for dealing with the change  to the policy.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
what happened in 2002
Mr and Mrs G told us they arranged their mortgage at a Santander branch, and took out PPI 
there too. Thats likely to be right. Its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale happened, 
that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt expect Santander or Mr and Mrs G to have kept 
this. And it isnt reasonable to expect  Mr and Mrs G to recall in detail what  was said at the 
time after so long. So I cant know exactly what was discussed when they took out PPI for 
Mr G.
I have to look at the available  information  and decide what  I think is most likely. 
Ref: DRN97509252The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Gs home  wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs G mightve  felt PPI was useful to have at the time. On 
balance, I think its likely  that they were persuaded of the need to protect  their home  by 
taking out the PPI offered  and they decided to buy the policy. Theyve said the sale took 
place in a hasty  manner, but Ive not been told anything that makes me think  they were put 
under unfair pressure  to agree to have the PPI. 
Santander recommended  the PPI and it seems  to have been right for Mr G based  on what 
Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time. Only Mr G was eligible for the policy 
so it was appropriate that the cover was just in Mr Gs name. Mrs G wasnt working at the 
time so she wasnt eligible  for the cover.
The PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr G lost his job or he was too 
sick or disabled to work. And he couldve made repeated claims - so the policy  wouldve 
given Mr and Mrs G long term cover  for their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt have any significant  means  to fall back on if Mr G couldnt work. And as 
Mrs G wasnt  working,  I dont think its likely  that Mr and Mrs G wouldve been  able to 
manage the monthly mortgage repayments for very long if Mr G wasnt  working.  So I think 
having PPI wouldve been important to Mr and Mrs G at the time.
Its possible some of the information  Mr and Mrs G were given about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. There were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if 
that affected Mr G. So, I dont think having more  information about  things the policy didnt 
cover wouldve put Mr and Mrs G off taking out PPI alongside their mortgage in 2002.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs G when they applied  for the 
policy. But, from what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs G arent suggesting  that they couldnt afford the 
monthly premiums. And they couldve cancelled the policy at any time if circumstances 
changed or they no longer  wanted  to pay for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs G still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been better 
informed as the policy gave useful protection in Mr and Mrs Gs particular situation. 
So Im not planning on upholding this part of their complaint.
what happened  in 2006
Santander says the insurers say that on 2 September 2006 the benefit amount changed and 
Mrs G was added to the policy. And from that point on, the policy  benefit  was split 50:50  
between Mr and Mrs G.
But Mrs G told us that at the time, although she was in employment by then, she was only 
working 15 hours per week. 
Under the terms of the policy that theyd  taken out, a person had to be working a minimum of 
16 hours per week to qualify for the insurance.
Ref: DRN97509253This meant that Mrs G wasnt  able to make a claim under the policy (because she wasnt  
eligible for the cover).  And it also meant  that Mr Gs entitlement under the policy  was 
reduced by one half  because  adding  Mrs G to the policy  and sharing the policy benefit with 
her on an equal  footing  meant that Mr G was entitled to only half the monthly  benefit  amount. 
Santander says that Mr G made a successful sickness claim on the policy after he contacted  
the insurers in October  2010 and the policy  paid out £683.75.
But I think that Mr and Mrs G were  potentially disadvantaged when Mrs G was incorrectly  
added to the policy. I say this because Mr and Mrs G continued to pay in full for the policy   
but Mrs G wasnt  eligible to claim. And Mr G was entitled to only half the monthly  benefit  
amount in the event of a successful claim.  So the incorrect  benefit split mattered if 
Mr and Mrs G needed  to claim on the policy.
As Mr G claimed successfully on the policy after it was amended to include Mrs G, I think  
they may have lost out. Mrs G wasnt eligible for the policy and shouldnt  have been added 
to the policy. And if that mistake hadnt  happened, then Mr G wouldve been entitled to 100% 
of the policy  benefit when  he claimed  not just 50% (which  Im making a reasonable 
assumption is the proportion of the monthly benefit  he was paid  in line with the benefit split 
documented). 
Ive thought carefully about who is responsible for what went wrong when the policy  was 
amended.
 
Its unclear how the policy amendment was done and Ive not seen any paperwork about  it. 
Santander says the amendment was made around  the time of a further advance on the 
mortgage. The monthly premiums increased from £26.99 to £33.03. It says the amendment 
was not advised or recommended and so it does not constitute a separate  sale.
Santander told us:
Usually, at the point of taking  further  borrowings or paying off a chunk of their credit, 
customers are advised (that should  they hold a policy  covering their repayments) to ensure  
their policies adequately cover their new level of exposure (so the policies can be amended 
upwards or downwards).  This is done via an instruction document called an amendment  
form, completed by the customer to the insurers as Santander cannot amend the policies. 
This is the exclusive preserve of the policy administrators
But it seems  to me unlikely that Mr and Mrs G wouldve decided  to add Mrs G to the cover 
without discussing this with Santander  at all  especially  as they were  making arrangements  
for a further advance  at that same  time.  So I think its likely that Santander wouldve had 
some involvement in making  the amendment. I appreciate that Santander is sure that the 
change was made direct with the insurer by letter. But it would assist if Santander can 
explain how it knows this and provide evidence in support. 
Ive taken into account that Santander  says it has been advised by the insurers that Mrs G 
also signed an amendment form which had a declaration stating they both were employed 
and working 16 hours or more at the time. 
Ref: DRN97509254Santander said it had requested a copy of this form and it would send it to us - but we 
havent heard anything  further about this, despite  sending a reminder. And although  weve 
also asked Santander  to provide us with contact details to enable our adjudicator to make  
further enquiries about this direct with the insurer, Santander hasnt responded to that 
request either.
So I havent seen  that form. And the information we have from Mr and Mrs G suggests  that 
she wasnt working a sufficient number of hours to be eligible for the policy. Ive no reason to 
doubt what Mr and Mrs G have told us. 
This means  that as things stand at the moment,  I find on balance that Mrs G wasnt eligible 
for the policy.  
On the basis of the information Ive seen  so far, I think  Santander was responsible for 
providing enough clear  information to Mr and Mrs G about the impact of making this policy  
change so they could decide  if adding her to the cover and splitting the benefit  between 
them this way was right for them. 
I dont think it makes  any difference  whether  or not Santander recommended  adding Mrs G 
to the PPI. In my view, it still had to make Mr and Mrs G aware  at the time,  in clear terms, of 
the requirements for eligibility for the policy. Santander hasnt shown me that it did so. And 
I dont think its likely  that Mr and Mrs G wouldve wanted to add Mrs G to the policy  if theyd 
understood that she wasnt  eligible  for the cover.  Or if Santander had explained clearly 
enough the impact  of the benefit split on Mr Gs ability to claim under the policy.
I havent seen  anything to show that Santander highlighted this information  to Mr and Mrs G. 
And I dont  think they wouldve wanted the benefit split if they had known about the impact 
this had on Mr Gs entitlement to benefit  under the policy  given that Mrs G didnt qualify to 
have any benefit  herself.  
So, I currently think Mr and Mrs G have lost out because of what  Santander did wrong or 
failed to do when  Mr and Mrs G took out their further  advance  and their PPI was amended.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Santander says it still disagrees with my opinion on this case but says it has provided all the 
available information  it holds and now awaits my final decision. 
Mr and Mrs G told me they had nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Having done so, after taking carefully  into account  everything thats  been  said in response to 
my provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN97509255putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs G in the position  theyd be in now if it hadnt amended  the 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
oPay Mr and Mrs G the amount they paid each month for the PPI after the 
policy was amended 
oAdd simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
oSantander can take off what Mr and Mrs G got when  they made a successful 
claim under the PPI policy from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs G as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9750925