K820x#14complaint
Mr L says CURO TRANSATLANTIC LIMITED, trading as Wage Day Advance (WDA), lent 
to him irresponsibly. He also says the business continued to harass him after he made his 
complaint.
background
WDA approved two loans  for Mr L. Both were instalment loans repayable  over six months:
Loan 1, taken out in October  2017,  for £500 with monthly repayments of around £167
Loan 2, taken out in June 2018, for £395, with monthly repayments  of around £132
An adjudicator considered  this complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
WDA had done enough to check whether the repayments were affordable.
Mr L, via his representative, disagreed. He was particularly concerned  that the adjudicator  
hadnt addressed  the harassment issue. He also asked the ombudsman take into account 
his vulnerability  when the loans were approved.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Relevant regulations and guidance included the Financial  Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  
Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC). CONC contained rules  and guidance for lenders  
about responsible lending.  Among  other  things, CONC said lenders should  carry out 
affordability checks which are proportionate in the circumstances of the loan. The regulations 
also said repayments should be sustainable (i.e. repayable from the borrowers income or 
savings) and that lenders shouldnt allow a borrower  to enter into consecutive credit  
agreements where  it would be unsustainable to do so.
With this in mind, Ive considered the checks WDA  carried out before lending  to Mr L.
For both loans, WDA asked Mr L about  his income  which Mr L said was £1,400  a month.  It 
also asked Mr L about his monthly  outgoings.  For loan 1, Mr L said these totalled £900  and 
for loan 2 the total was £1,070. The outgoings  included  amounts for mortgage/rent, other  
credit commitments  and general living costs.  WDA also carried  out a credit check.
I think these checks were  proportionate in the circumstances of the loans. In saying this Ive 
taken into account  the information  Mr L provided about his income  and expenditure, which 
suggested the repayments on both loans were affordable. I think  it was reasonable for WDA 
to rely on this information. I dont think the credit  check it carried  out would have significantly 
undermined what Mr L said about his outgoings.
I am of course sympathetic to Mr Ls circumstances and I wont  repeat here what  hes told us 
about his health to preserve his privacy. But WDA  wasnt  aware  of Mr Ls circumstances 
when it lent, so its not something I could say it ought to have taken into account.
Im therefore  unable to uphold  Mr Ls complaint about WDAs  lending  decisions.
Ref: DRN99790042I also need to consider  Mr Ls complaint  about  the level of contact from WDA. I understand 
Mr L no longer has access to his old email  address  and doesnt have examples of the calls 
or emails. So Ive focussed  primarily on WDAs contact notes.
It appears that WDA received Mr Ls complaint on 9 July 2018. Within  his complaint, Mr L set 
out the problems with his health and asked  that all future contact be by letter.
WDAs notes do not suggest that it made further  calls to Mr L and the emails  it sent appear 
to be in response to information provided  by Mr L about his intentions  to set up a plan to 
repay the debt via a third party charity.
Overall, I cant see that there  was an inappropriate level of contact by WDA. So Im not 
upholding his complaint about  this.
I remind WDA of its ongoing obligation  to treat Mr L positively and sympathetically, 
particularly in light of his current circumstances.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  CURO TRANSATLANTIC LIMITED.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9979004