K820x#14The complaint
Miss D and Mr P complain that Bank  of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold  
them Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) alongside their mortgage.
What happened
Miss D and Mr P applied for a mortgage  during  a branch visit in 2000. At the same time, they 
also took out PPI designed to protect their mortgage repayments in the event they couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness of if they became unemployed.
Miss D and Mr P paid monthly for the policy and the event of a successful claim, it could pay 
out for up to 24 months (per claim) for both the accident/sickness and unemployment 
elements of cover. The policy was in Mr Ps sole name. 
In 2003 Miss D and Mr P arranged further  borrowing with Halifax. At this time Mr Ps 
previous PPI policy was cancelled  and a new policy set up. This policy was again  in Mr Ps 
sole name. And again, Mr P had cover  accident,  sickness and unemployment and would  
have covered him for up to 24 months.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss D and Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss D and Mr Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss D and Mr P say the policies were added to the mortgage and further  borrowing without 
their knowledge.  Both policies were sold during meetings between Miss D, Mr P and Halifax. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide copies of the actual paperwork completed during the 
meetings between it, Miss D and Mr P when they took out the policies. The two events took 
place a number  of years ago, so it doesnt  surprise me that the original  paperwork is no 
longer available. And Halifax  doesnt have to keep records indefinitely. So, Ive given 
consideration to everything Miss D and Mr P has told us, as well as taking into account all 
we know about  how Halifax sold policies such as these at the time to decide what I think is 
most likely to have happened.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Miss D and Mr P, had accepted the recommendation to have certain, or all, elements of 
the PPI policy. Halifax  has provided a copy  of the letters  sent to Miss D and Mr P covering 
the details of what had been  selected for the sale in 2000. If Miss D and Mr P hadnt  wanted 
it or their circumstances changed, the letter states that the PPI could be cancelled  at any 
time. 
Ref: DRN93689512From what  we know about how Halifax sold policies in 2000  and 2003,  I think it would have 
made it clear  at each  occasion that the policy was optional. And having considered what  
Miss D and Mr P has told us carefully,  nothing theyve said leads me to think  Halifax didnt 
follow its normal procedures here. 
So, taking everything  Ive seen into account,  I think its most likely  Halifax  made it clear that 
Miss D and Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out each  time  
although I can understand why Miss D and Mr P cant remember this now.
Halifax recommended  the policies to Miss D and Mr P. So, it had to check  they were right for 
them. 
Looking at Miss D and Mr P circumstances  - in particular Mr Ps as the policies were in his 
sole name - at the time of each sale it seems like he had a need  for the cover. Mr P wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover.  Miss D and Mr P say Mr P would 
have received some sick pay and redundancy benefits from his employer. But each policy  
wouldve paid out alongside these employee  benefits.
 
From what  Miss D and Mr P have  told us, I cant see Mr P had any other  means of making  
his mortgage repayments. So, it seems Miss D and Mr P had a need for the policy. Miss D 
and Mr P were borrowing funds against a large  and long-term financial commitment,  which  
was secured on their home. And I think having  the security  that their repayments would have 
been made if Mr P was unable to work would have been important to them. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss D and Mr P about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI on all two occasions - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the 
policies would have  been useful for them if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the policies were  affordable  for them.  So, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Miss D and Mr P off taking  out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Miss D and Mr P have lost out by anything Halifax might have done 
wrong. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So, Halifax  doesnt need to refund 
everything Miss D and Mr P paid for it. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Miss D and Mr P some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules  and guidance  dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Miss D and     
Mr Ps mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before  6 April 2008 they dont apply. So, 
Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Miss D and Mr P paid for the PPI they 
had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN93689513My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2020. 
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9368951