K820x#14background
Mr M, who operated as a sole trader,  complains that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt notify  him 
about a dormant business account. Hes also upset about the service he received  from them  
when trying to withdraw the funds from it. 
complaint
On 27 June 2018 Mr M telephoned Bank of Scotland having  found out he had a business  
bank account  with them that was in credit, but had been classed as dormant. They explained  
what he needed to do to re-activate the account and access  his money.  And Mr M visited a 
branch the same day with the documents  he was asked to provide.
A member of staff in the branch told Mr M that hed be able to withdraw  the money in the 
account after 3 days. However  when he returned  to the branch on 2 July 2018 he was told 
that the funds  werent available and he would have  to wait up to 8 weeks  to withdraw  them. 
The branch  had mislaid a copy they had taken of his passport, so Mr M had to return  on 
another occasion so they could make another one
Mr M was unhappy and raised a complaint with Bank of Scotland,  asking  for compensation 
to recognise the distress  and inconvenience theyd caused him. He also thought it was unfair 
that he hadnt been notified when the account became dormant. And he felt the bank should 
compensate him for the interest he could potentially  have accrued on the money since the 
account had last been used in 2008.  
Bank of Scotland agreed the service Mr M had received from them when trying to access his 
funds had been below the standard he should expect. They  paid him £36 to cover his 
additional costs.  They also gave him a further  £75 compensation  for the inconvenience  he 
had suffered. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with their response, so he brought  his complaint to our service.  Hes 
upset that Bank of Scotland took as long as they did to respond to his complaint. And he 
doesnt feel that they addressed all of the issues hes raised with them. Hes particularly 
concerned that they lost a copy of his passport. He still wants them to compensate him for 
interest he feels he has lost on the money in the account. And he thinks  they should offer 
him more  compensation to properly reflect the distress and inconvenience  he has suffered. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that the bank needed  to increase their offer of compensation 
here. Mr M disagrees,  so the case has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  Mr M will be disappointed, 
but I wont be asking  Bank of Scotland to pay him any additional compensation. Ill explain 
why.
Mr M says that he wasnt notified when  Bank  of Scotland  put a dormant marker on his 
business bank  account. Unfortunately, given the length of time that has passed since then, I 
cant be certain as to exactly what the bank communicated  to him when the account was 
made dormant. Bank of Scotland dont hold records going back  this far  and they arent  
required to do so. 
Ref: DRN99868862Bank of Scotland have said that prior to the account being marked  dormant Mr M would 
have received a statement showing its balance. Our adjudicator has already explained that 
its a regulatory  requirement for the bank  to send account statements to their customers. So I 
think its more likely  than not that Bank of Scotland would have done so here whilst the 
account was still active. 
Therefore, whilst I cant say for certain whether or not he was told it was dormant, I think Mr 
M should  have been aware of the account  and its balance.  He could have contacted  the 
bank at any point  to enquire about  the account  or to ask for an update on the balance. And 
he could have let them know  if he wanted  to move  the funds to another  account that paid 
interest. So I dont think  it would be fair to say the bank  were responsible for the fact he 
didnt do this.
I appreciate Mr M feels he has lost the opportunity  to accrue  interest on the money because 
the account was classed  as dormant. But Bank  of Scotland have  confirmed that none of their 
business accounts pay interest  on any credit  in them even when they are active. So I cant  
see that this is the case. And whilst I appreciate its frustrating for Mr M that this money was 
untouched for so long as he might have  been able to obtain interest on it from elsewhere, 
Ive already explained why I dont think it would be fair to ask Bank of Scotland  to 
compensate him for this.
Mr M contacted Bank of Scotland in June 2018 when he became  aware  of the money in this 
account. They told him he would need to take proof of identity with him to a branch to re-
activate it before he could  withdraw the funds.  Mr M did this the same day. The branch took 
a photocopy of his passport, and told him that hed be able to access his funds in 3 working 
days. However when  Mr M returned on 2 July 2018  he found this wasnt  the case.
Bank of Scotland have agreed  that they didnt provide Mr M with the level of service  he 
should have expected in branch.  The copy they had taken of his passport was misplaced, 
which delayed his ability to access the funds in his account. Mr M had to return to the branch 
again to provide another copy  of his passport, before he was able to withdraw  the funds on 9 
July 2018. 
It was clearly very inconvenient for Mr M when he had to make  two additional visits to the 
branch. And I appreciate  it would have been  disappointing to find his money was not 
available when he expected. Bank of Scotland have paid Mr M £36 to cover  his expenses  for 
these two additional visits, and his telephone call to them to log his complaint. They  also 
paid him £75 compensation for the inconvenience he suffered as a result  of this and the 
delay in being able to withdraw his money.  I know Mr M will be disappointed, but I agree this 
is fair in the circumstances. And I can see he was able to access his funds a week later on 9 
July 2018, so I think the bank acted quickly to rectify their mistakes.
Ref: DRN99868863Mr M told Bank of Scotland that he was particularly upset about the delay accessing this 
money as he was planning to use it to meet his mortgage payment, which was due on 7 July 
2018. I understand this would have been  frustrating. But Bank of Scotland  have  pointed  out 
that he had only been expecting to get the funds since  27 June 2018. And he hadnt  been 
relying on the money in this account  to pay his mortgage in previous months.  Theyve also 
provided us with copies of his bank account and mortgage statements, and I can see Mr M 
paid his mortgage on time that month.  And he didnt provide the bank  with any evidence  that 
he was struggling  financially when they asked  him more about  this issue.  So I dont think  its 
unfair that they didnt award him any additional  compensation  on these grounds.
I appreciate Mr M is very concerned that Bank of Scotland misplaced the first copy they took 
of his passport  and he had to go back to the branch for them  to make another  one. Hes 
referred to the regulations in place  around data protection,  and said that he feels  he is 
entitled to make a claim because the bank lost his data.
I should clarify that its not the role of this service to determine if there  has been a breach of 
these regulations  that would be for the Information Commissioners  Office to decide.  I 
understand why Mr M is concerned about  what has happened to his data. But I cant see any 
evidence that suggests his information has been obtained by anyone outside  of the bank. 
And I think,  on balance,  its more  likely  than not that as Bank  of Scotland say the misplaced 
copy wouldnt have left their branch. So, whilst Mr M clearly  feels  very strongly about this 
issue, I dont think it would be fair to ask Bank  of Scotland to pay him any further 
compensation for this. Its not my role to punish the bank  for their mistakes, but to look what 
is fair and reasonable to recognise  the impact  their mistakes had on Mr M. Im satisfied that 
the compensation he has already received reflects the costs  and inconvenience  he suffered 
as a result  of the copy of his passport being misplaced.
Mr M is unhappy  that it took Bank  of Scotland 7 weeks to make  him an offer of 
compensation following these events, and I appreciate why he would have found this 
frustrating. Complaint handling isnt generally something this service can consider. But I 
cant see anything to suggest the bank  have acted unfairly or unreasonably here. They 
responded to Mr M within the timescales businesses have to follow. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9986886