K820x#14complaint
Mr P has a self-invested personal pension scheme  (SIPP)  administered  by Curtis Banks 
Limited.  That SIPP holds  a Harlequin  property  investment which is worthless  and has been 
since around 2013.  Mr P thinks  its unfair and unreasonable  for Curtis Banks  to charge 
annual management  fees on his SIPP when it has no value. 
Mr P thinks  Curtis Banks has profited  from the mis-selling by the adviser, who recommended  
the investment  and the SIPP, and the original administrator of the SIPP,  Montpelier.  He  
thinks Curtis Banks should  therefore repay the fees it has charged him.
Mrs P has an almost  identical complaint  and Mr P made both complaints at the same time.  
The two complaints are therefore interwoven to a degree.
background
In 2009 Mr and Mrs P were introduced to an adviser  by a friend.  That  adviser normally dealt 
with mortgages.   The adviser said they could invest their pensions with an overseas property 
investment company called Harlequin.   They went to a presentation where they were  told the 
arrangements were backed by HMRC which reassured them.  
As the adviser  did not deal with pension transfers  Mr and Mrs P were introduced to an IFA 
firm I will refer to as the IFA.
Mr and Mrs P were  advised they could pool their pension monies to make  an investment 
with Harlequin.  They  were advised to set up SIPPs with Montpelier.  Montpelier Pension 
Trustees (MPT) were the trustees of the SIPP and it was administered by Montpelier 
Pension Administration Services Limited  (MPAS).  I will generally  refer to Montpelier except 
where it is important to distinguish between MPT  and MPAS.
The investments were:
a £135,000 investment in an off-plan purchase of a property  investment at Merricks 
Beach resort in Barbados.  Mr and Mrs P paid a deposit of around £40,000.  The  
balance was payable  in stages as the building work progressed.   The  contract was 
with Harlequin  Property (SVG)  Limited.
a £125,000 investment in an off-plan purchase of a property  investment on the 
Marquis Estate development on St Lucia.  Mr and Mrs P paid a deposit again of 
around £40,000.  Again, the balance  was to be paid in stages.  This contract  was 
with Harlequin  Resorts (St Lucia)  Limited.
Mr P applied for the SIPP in July 2009  and applied to switch  an existing personal pension  to 
it.  As part of the SIPP application Mr P signed a declaration that included:
I hereby  apply to become a member of the Montpelier Self Invested Personal Pension and if 
applicable the Montpelier Protected  Rights Pension Scheme.   I agree  to be bound  by the 
Trust Deed  and Rules  of the Scheme(s), which  I have had the opportunity to consider.   I 
understand that these may be amended  from time to time.
In return for the services to be provided by the Scheme Administrator,  I agree to pay the 
charges set out in the Fee Schedule and the Advisers Remuneration Section of this 
Application Form  (section 9), as may be amended from time to time.
Ref: DRN93095552So in the autumn of 2009 Mr and Mrs P had the SIPPs they had been  advised to take out 
and the investments in Harlequin  they had been advised to make.   Later the investments 
failed, and Mr and Mrs P have suffered losses.  I will set out briefly  the different  parts  that go 
to make up the overall picture before dealing with the issue about  which  Mr P complains.
Montpelier  transfer to Curtis Banks
In 2011 Montpellier was being  investigated by the regulator.  It decided  to sell its business  
and Curtis  Banks bought the assets of MPAS  but not the company itself,  which  continued 
to exist.  Curtis Banks  was appointed by the Trustee as the administrator of the Montpelier 
SIPPs which  continued on their existing terms.
Curtis Banks says the regulator  was aware  of the transfer from Montpelier to it, was keen to 
see the successful  transfer and oversaw  the process including an exercise carried  out by 
Curtis Banks to contact  clients whose SIPP contained non-standard investments.  
In October  2011 Curtis Banks wrote to all clients such as Mr P and Mrs P who had invested  
in hotel room investments  to provide information  on the common features and risks 
associated with this type of investment  and suggesting clients seek further advice if what  it 
said did not match up with the clients understanding or if they had any concerns about  the 
suitability of the investment.
The letter included:
Your Montpelier SIPP  Potential inappropriate assets
As part of the transfer of the administration of Montpelier SIPPs to Curtis  Banks PLC we have 
undertaken a review of the investments held within each  SIPP,  at the request of the Financial 
Services Authority.  As  administrator of your SIPP we are not responsible for any investment  
advice provided by third parties such as your Financial Adviser, and we are not responsible 
for the work carried out by Montpelier  Pension  Administration  Service Ltd.  We will, however,  
be administering your SIPP  going  forward  and it is in this respect that we have carried out the 
review.
We are therefore writing out to clients who hold assets within their SIPP that may represent a 
higher level of risk than expected,  or involve  more unusual investment to ensure they have 
received appropriate advice and fully understand what is held within their SIPP and the Risks 
associated with these assets.
Your SIPP has been identified  as holding  one or more  such  assets and this letter  provides 
information on the nature  of this investment, the reasons why it is considered to be higher risk 
and what action  you should take if you have any concerns over whether it is appropriate for 
you.  The purpose  of this letter is not to alarm  you, but to ensure that you are fully 
aware of the investments  your  SIPP  is holding. [original emphasis]
Depending on your personal circumstances, holding  these assts within your SIPP  may be 
appropriate for you if you have received advice  and/or fully understand the investments held 
within your SIPP and the risks associated with these,  and consider them  appropriate for your 
needs, then you do not need  to take any further action.  However, if the information  provided 
in this letter does not match  your understanding  of the investments held within your SIPP then 
you should seek further advice from a financial adviser or contact us.
Ref: DRN93095553The particular investments we are writing to you about are overseas hotel rooms, as your 
SIPP currently  contains one or more such investments.  There are a number of issues 
associated with such  investments, including the following points:
There is a risk that they could breach the rules governing what  is allowed within a 
pension, although HMRC have confirmed in general terms that they are acceptable 
and this is not considered to be a risk at the present  time.
These are generally off-plan investments in hotel  rooms which  have not been built 
yet.  There  are risks with any investment of this nature which relies on building  work 
being completed.
The track record of such investments is limited and it can be difficult  to assess how 
they are likely to perform  in practice.
They  can lead to a large proportion of your SIPP being  concentrated in a single asset, 
with potential liquidity issues if this asset proves difficult to sell, or significant damage 
to your pension fund if the investment  does  not perform.
As the purchase is made in stages, further funds will need to be injected into your 
pension funds, or borrowing arranged  within your SIPP  to fund the rest of the 
payments.  If this cannot be done then you will be personally responsible for funding 
the balance.
Having said this, we are advised that values  of investments have increased  significantly, that 
it should  be possible to arrange borrowing  to fund the rest of the payments, and that 
investments can be sold prior to completion.  We have not been able to verify this information  
independently, and you may want to conduct your own enquiries or, if you wish to sell your 
investment at the present  time, investigate whether this can be done.  We would be interested  
in any feedback you receive
In April 2013 the FCA announced that it had banned the former managing director of MPAS, 
Mr Kevin  Wells.   The  FCA said:
Following investigation the FCA concluded that Wells did not have an adequate  
understanding of the SIPP operators regulated activities and corresponding regulatory  
responsibilities or of his own responsibilities as the managing  director of the firm.
Wells led a rapid expansion of the business, away from standard  investments, but had not 
identified or mitigated the risks involved  for the MPAS SIPPs and SIPP members as a result 
of this expansion.  By allowing a high proportion of non-standard investments into the MPAS 
SIPPs without the necessary controls or adequate capital resource, he exposed  customers  
and MPAS itself to a significant level of risk. 
Harlequin
Mr and Mrs P invested in two hotel  investments  with Harlequin.  These were off-plan 
investments, meaning the investment was in a property that had not yet been built.   These  
investments are generally regarded as non-standard  investments.   
In 2013 the FCA issued  an alert about  investing  with Harlequin and the Serious Fraud  Office  
announced it was launching an investigation into Harlequin.  The  company itself announced 
it had difficulties in areas  of its operations.   And without going  into detail, some or all, of its 
companies have  gone  into administration or liquidation.
The investments have been valued at a nominal  £1 in Mr P and Mrs Ps SIPPs since  
November 2013.   Curtis  Banks wrote to Mr P about this.  It said:
Montpelier SIPP  Harlequin
Ref: DRN93095554We are the current administrators of your SIPP and we are writing in respect of the 
investment you made into Harlequin within your SIPP  funds.
You may be aware that there are concerns over the Harlequin investment and various  
regulatory bodies have  become involved.   There is no hard evidence  available  on the 
outcome, but we feel there are sufficient doubts as to the true value, to lead us to treat it as 
potentially significantly impaired.
As administrators we are required to adopt a prudent approach to asset valuations,  
particularly where these  values are being used to support payments from a SIPP.  As  a result, 
we are placing a nominal value  of £1 on the Harlequin investment for the time being and will 
be showing this in future SIPP  valuations.  This is consistent  with the approach being taken  
by other SIPP  administrators  at the present  time.
We would emphasise that we have no evidence to support such  a figure  or any other figure  at 
the present time and it is to be hoped that the ultimate outcome is more favourable.  The 
approach we are adopting is driven  by the need to be prudent  in our valuations, it is not a 
current valuation based on hard evidence.
If you have  concerns over your Harlequin investment,  you should  contact the financial adviser 
who assisted you in setting  up your SIPP and making the investment.  The Financial Services  
Authority has made it clear that financial  advisers who acted in this capacity were responsible  
for advising on all aspects of the transaction, including your investment decision.   Please  let 
us know  if you need contact details from us for your financial adviser.  Please  note that we 
are unable  to provide  you with any financial advice in relation to your pension arrangement or 
the investments  held within  your SIPP as this is not part of our role and so any questions of 
this nature would need to be addressed  to a financial adviser.
Please note that your SIPP was administered  by Montpelier Pension Administration Services 
Ltd (MPAS) at the time that you made the Harlequin  investment. We have since taken over 
the administration from MPAS, but are not responsible for work done prior to our appointment.   
Please let us now if you require contact details for MPAS.
We will contact  you again if further information becomes available.
Both Harlequin Property (SVG)  Limited  and Harlequin Resorts  (St Lucia)  Limited went  into 
liquidation in 2017. As I understand it, the work on the developments into which Mr and Mrs 
P had invested ceased before then.  So far as I am aware the properties  have  not been built.
 
the IFA
The IFA was a regulated financial adviser  firm.  It advised Mr P to set up a SIPP  with 
Montpelier, and to transfer  his pension to it so he could invest in Harlequin.  The IFA ceased 
trading in 2015.
Mr and Mrs P made claims to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in 
respect of the advice  they received from the IFA.  The FSCS considered that they had been 
wrongly advised and offered compensation. As the losses suffered exceeded the maximum 
award payable  by the FSCS it paid only £50,000  each to Mr and Mrs P rather  than the full 
amount of the loss it had calculated.
Mr and Mrs P say they made their claims to FSCS with the help of lawyers.   As a result  of 
the FSCS  limits and legal fees,  when  they made their complaint to Curtis  Banks  they were 
still suffering a loss of around £90,000 between them.
Ref: DRN93095555Montpelier has also been declared in default by the FSCS  and Mr and Mrs P have also 
made claims  to it in respect of Montpeliers failings.  I will say more about that shortly.
the fees charged by Curtis  Banks
I now turn the issues Mr P referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 2017 following 
his complaint to Curtis banks in 2016.   The compliant is about the fairness of the charges by 
Curtis Banks on Mr Ps SIPP account.  As I understand the following charges had been 
made by to Mr and Mrs P:
Mr P Mrs P
2011 £540 paid £540 paid
2012 £540 paid £540 paid
2013 £548.40 paid £548.40 paid
2014 £548.40 paid £548.40 paid
2015 £548.40 £469.07 paid 
using up all 
the cash 
balance £548.40 paid
2016 £660 written off £660 paid
2017 £660 written off £660 paid
2018 treated as 
impaired  
no fee£414 paid
2019 treated as 
impaired  
no fee£420 paid
 
In short,  the complaint is that Curtis Banks  has continued to charge fees to administer a 
SIPP which has no value.  Mr and Mr P think this is unjustified.   They  think it is unfair  and 
unreasonable.
Further Mr and Mrs P are suspicious of Curtis  Banks motives.   They think it bought the 
business from Montpelier knowing  the SIPP contained toxic  investments in relation to which 
Curtis Banks could  continue to make charges while not accepting  any liability  for the toxic 
state of the SIPP  accounts.
Mr and Mrs P think Curtis Banks should have some  responsibility for the original mis-selling 
since it agreed to take over Montpeliers business  knowing  it to be tainted.  
Curtis Banks position:
Curtis Banks has made  a number of points including:
It is the administrator  of Mr and Mrs Ps existing SIPPs on their existing terms and 
conditions.  It has replaced MPAS as the administrator.   It did not take over MPAS 
itself.  It did not take on the past liabilities of MPAS.   Any complaint about  MPAS 
should be made to MPAS.  
Mr and Mrs P were  told of the transfer to Curtis Banks and had the opportunity  then 
to transfer their SIPP away to another provider  if they wanted to.
Ref: DRN93095556Curtis Banks operated the SIPPs  on the existing terms and that meant  Mr P 
remained free to transfer away  if he wanted.  It levied charges in accordance with the 
existing arrangement agreed  by Mr P.  Those charges are on a fixed  basis  rather  
than a time costed  basis.  
Curtis Banks is involved in much  work  in relation  to a SIPP account even when the 
main asset in the SIPP is valued at zero.  
Curtis Banks has collected  its fees when there is sufficient cash  or other  assets in the 
SIPP.  When there isnt, it has frozen  the collection of further fees.
It wrote to clients in 2013 to confirm Harlequin assets were impaired and standard  
annual fees were continuing  to accrue.   However, the Harlequin assets were still in 
existence and could not be removed  from the SIPP.
It stopped charging its non-standard investment annual fee.
Curtis Banks continued  to correspond with Harlequin about the status of its assets.
FSCS  announced it would consider claims such as the IFA claims.  In  2016 a 
procedure was put in place by Curtis  Banks for SIPPs that had received 
compensation under which they could  close or continue their SIPPs. Mr P did not 
close his SIPP. It says it chased Mr P a couple  of times but sent no further chasers  
once Mr P had made his complaint.
It says Mr and Mrs P say they could  not get anyone  to advise them  because  of the 
toxic reputation of Harlequin investments.  Curtis  Banks say it is not aware  of other  
clients having such problems.
It wrote and emailed Mrs P seven times  about Harlequin SVG  and once about 
Harlequin St Lucia  in 2016-2017.
Since 2018 it has revised its procedures to reduce or stop fees accruing for SIPPs  
holding only impaired  investments.  However,  if a SIPP holds  cash/and or any other  
non-impaired assets charges are made.
In 2018 FSCS announced it was willing to take assignments to it of the Harlequin 
investments.  Curtis Banks passed that information on to Mr P.  If Mr P had taken  up 
the opportunity  to assign the Harlequin  investment to the FSCS he could have closed 
his SIPP.
the investigators view
One of investigators  considered Mr Ps complaint.   He did not consider  that Curtis Banks had 
any responsibility for the original advice or investment.  He did however think  that the 
requirement on Curtis Banks to treat customers fairly meant it ought to have  been  more 
flexible on its charges once the Harlequin  investments  were  in effect worthless.  He invited 
Curtis Banks to make an offer to resolve  matters, but Curtis Banks remained of the view that 
it had not acted inappropriately.
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme
Ref: DRN93095557Mr P was offered compensation by the FSCS in October 2015 in respect of his claim against 
the IFA. The FSCS calculated that, as at 23 December 2015, Mr P had suffered a 
compensatable loss of over £75,000.
The FSCS calculated  this figure by first identifying the hypothetical  value of Mr Ps pension  
transferred to Montpelier/Curtis  Banks.  From  this figure the FSCS deducted the value of the 
Harlequin investment  (which it said was zero) and the cash  balance in the SIPP  (almost  
£500) and added back in Curtis Banks SIPP exit fee (which it said was £600). 
I note that by taking  account of the value of the SIPP the calculation  accounts for the 
charges paid in the SIPP  up to that point (since those charges will have reduced the cash 
balance).  Further, as I understand it, the annual  charges are usually collected in August 
each year meaning that the charge in 2015  will have been  deducted  from the cash balance 
in the account by December 2015 when the loss was calculated.  The compensation paid 
was then limited to £50,000.
In January 2019, Mr P was also offered compensation  by the FSCS in respect of Montpelier.  
FSCS said that Montpelier had failed to carry out effective due diligence on the investments 
into Harlequin. The FSCS said it did not have sufficient evidence to prove that Montpelier 
failed in its legal and regulatory  duties  in accepting the transfer  of Mr Ps existing pensions 
and so, it said, it could  not pay compensation in respect of past or future SIPP  charges.   
The FSCS paid compensation of around £30,000 in respect of the Montpelier claim.  
In principle Mr P has been compensated for charges up and including 2015 and it should 
only be charges in 2016 onwards that are in issue.  However,  in practice, because of the 
limits on FCSCs  awards, and the way in which the 2019 redress has been calculated,  mean  
that Mr P has not been fully compensated and it is open to him to say he has not been 
compensated for what he considers to be unreasonable  or unfair charges since the 
Harlequin investments  become worthless in 2013.  
I considered Mr Ps complaint and issued a provisional decision.  I did not think  his complaint 
should be upheld.   Curtis Banks agrees.  Mr  P has received my provisional  decision and 
does not agree with it, but he has not provided any further submissions or any new evidence  
or arguments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   And  my view remains as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Before setting out my findings I will say something about the scope of Mr Ps complaint.
When Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service  he was unhappy 
with Curtis  Banks in relation  to a number of matters, but his complaint was about the fairness  
of Curtis Banks behaviour  since it has taken over the SIPP.  Mr P emphasised this point 
when the investigator  asked  Mr P about his assignment of rights of action to the FSCS  when 
it paid compensation  to him in respect  of his claim relating to the IFA.  Mr P said the 
complaint is not made on the basis that he is seeking to recover the difference  between what  
the FSCS  paid him and his full loss.  Rather  he thinks  that Curtis  Banks  has behaved 
Ref: DRN93095558unreasonably and should repay all the charges it has made so that it does not profit  from the 
mis-selling to him of the SIPP  and the Harlequin  investment.  
Later Mr P told us he was to receive  compensation from the FSCS in respect  of his 
Montpelier claim on the basis that Montpelier had failed to carry out adequate  due diligence 
on the investment  in Harlequin.  Mr P said that this must mean  that if Montpelier didnt carry 
out adequate due diligence Curtis  Banks cannot  have done  so either when  it took on 
Montpeliers business.  Mr P thinks it only fair that the Ombudsman should rule harshly  
against Curtis Banks.  And Mr P says:
we want to be compensated for the anguish, mis-selling and the total unprofessionalism 
that Curtis Banks has shown for the past eight years.
We have  been duped by this investment  and initially felt embarrassed by our naivety but we 
now know we were  failed by EVERY financial institution we dealt with, at every turn.  The 
regulators have admonished  the IFAs and now the pension transfer companies  it would  seem 
wholly illogical that Curtis Banks  should  get away with it. [original emphasis]
Clearly, Mr P has had a very bad experience.  He was given poor advice to transfer a 
pension to a SIPP to invest in a Harlequin  investment.  The  investment was a high-risk  
investment for a pension.  Investing  all the pension fund in it was to take even greater risk.  
This poor advice needed a SIPP provider that would allow such arrangements within  its 
SIPPs.  Montpelier allowed it without making the sort of checks  that a SIPP provider should 
have made.
Both the IFA and the original SIPP administrator have gone  out of business and Mr P has 
made claims  to the FSCS in respect of both.  A very bad situation  should therefore have 
been put right to some degree.  Mr P is however still out of pocket for a number of reasons 
including the legal  fees he incurred  in making  the first claim as well as all the trouble and 
upset he has suffered.  
I realise that Mr P thinks Curtis Banks has been  just as bad as Montpelier and the IFA.  I do 
not however think  thats right.
There is a problem - but it was not of Curtis Banks  making.  The problem is that Mr P was 
advised to take out a SIPP which is a rather specialist arrangement.  It is a pension  and as 
such it is subject to strict rules.  It is not like other  financial  services  products such  as a bank 
account or an insurance policy.   In particular its difficult to end a pension  arrangement  
altogether.  It is possible to transfer  from one provider to another  but not easy  to draw the 
whole thing to an end.  
Amongst other things this means that when  Montpelier got into difficulties its business  would 
inevitably be transferred  to another SIPP administrator so that the SIPPs  could continue.   In 
the event it was Curtis Banks that took over.  It took over as administrator of the SIPPs and 
the SIPPs continued on the same  terms.
When Mr P applied  for the SIPP he agreed to pay the fees for the SIPP.  As a self-invested 
pension it was up to Mr P what type of investment he made  (provided it was of a type 
permitted by HMRC.)  So, for example, he could just hold cash  in his SIPP,  or he could 
invest in a spread  of mainstream investments, or he could put all his money in one high risk 
investment that loses all its value.  But whatever he did within the SIPP, he agreed  to pay 
the fees and if necessary, to add more money to the account in order  to pay them.   
Ref: DRN93095559And Mr P agreed to pay charges on a fixed charge basis, not on, say, the basis  of the value 
of the SIPP.    Mr Ps adviser should  have advised  him about this  but his advisers were not 
good so may have  failed to do so.  But that does not alter the contractual position.  And that 
is the starting point.   Mr P asked for a SIPP and agreed to pay the fees.  
However that is not the beginning and the end.  Curtis Banks  is a regulated  business and is 
subject to High Level  Principles in the regulators  rule book, one of which is Principle six: A 
firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
In 2007 the then regulator published  a guide for its supervisors called Treating Customers 
Fairly  Culture.  It  included  the following example of good practice in decision making:
One firm took over the management of a particular  fund from another firm.  A  few years later 
they identified, due to the volatility in the investments market for this type of fund,  that many 
customers may not have realised the risks associated with this type of investment.   The firm 
decided to contact all customers with investments in this fund to make them aware of the risks 
and to suggest  they seek advice.  In this case the firm decided contacting customers  was the 
right approach, even though  they could incur substantial costs.
The point shows a firm that had taken over an existing relationship and did not just rely on 
the existing state  of affairs as a given. The firm in the example examined  the position  and 
took some  action it thought appropriate  despite  the existence of a contract to establish  and 
govern its existing relationship.
I am satisfied that Curtis Banks was under an obligation to think about  its relationship  with its 
Montpelier SIPP customers and the service it was providing to them and not just rely on the 
terms of the existing contract. 
But having  said all that context remains important.  Curtis Banks  were  administering  a SIPP  
so it could not just do whatever it and its clients wanted if, for example, that meant  breaching 
HMRC requirements for SIPPs.  Curtis Banks could not, for example,  just agree to end the 
SIPP and give Mr P whatever money  he still had left after the Harlequin investment failed.  
And if Curtis Banks has to continue to provide  the SIPP it is not, in principle, unreasonable 
for it to continue to make  some charge for the SIPP since Curtis Banks is involved in work  in 
relation to Mr Ps SIPP even when it only holds a worthless investment.   
The question remains  what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances?  
I do not really accept two points that underlie  Mr Ps complaint:
First, that Curtis Banks is somehow  to blame  for the original advice to invest  in 
Harlequin because  Montpelier  failed to stop that transaction and Curtis Banks now 
stands it its place.   Or its guilty of making the same mistake  when  it agreed  to take 
on Montpeliers business.
Or, second, Curtis Banks cynically seized the opportunity to profit from Montpeliers 
poor practices as it saw and took the opportunity to take advantage of a captive client  
bank whose accounts it could bleed dry of all funds.
On the first point, Curtis Banks replaced MPAS as the administrator.  It did not take over 
MPASs liabilities for its wrongs.  MPAS remained responsible for its own acts and omissions 
in relation to the establishment of the SIPP  and that responsibility was taken over by the 
Ref: DRN930955510FSCS.  Mr P made a claim to the FSCS  and it has said MPAS  was at fault and has paid 
compensation to him.  While the FSCS did not in the event make good all the loss Mr and 
Mrs P have suffered,  because of the cap on its awards, this does not mean Curtis Banks has 
a liability to pay the balance of the compensation due in respect of Montpeliers wrong.  
Curtis Banks is only responsible for its own acts.
When Curtis Banks came to take over from Montpelier the harm had already been  done.  I 
cannot see that there was any failure of due diligence on the part of Curtis Banks that could 
make it responsible for the presence of the Harlequin investments in the SIPPs.   And Curtis 
Banks wrote to Mr P in 2011 about the Harlequin investments and in effect warned him they 
were high-risk  investments and that he should  seek advice about them if he had any 
concerns.
On the second  point,  I know Mr P thinks this, but I am not aware of any evidence to support 
the allegation of any unfair motive on the part of Curtis Banks  when it took over from 
Montpelier.  And the regulator would not have allowed the transfer to Curtis  Banks  if it had 
thought that it had such motives.  It was known that Montpelier  had many  SIPPs  with non-
standard investments but in relation to Harlequin  at least, the investments had not failed 
when Curtis  Banks took over from Montpelier.  This  is clear  from the letter of in 2011 I have 
quoted above  and that letter is inconsistent with the view that Curtis Banks somehow 
wanted investors trapped in worthless  investments so it could bleed them  dry.
I am not aware of any evidence that Curtis  Banks has engaged in any kind of predatory or 
unethical behaviour of the type Mr P suspects.  I am not therefore  aware  of any evidence  on 
which to base the view that it is inequitable for Curtis Banks  to levy any charge at all.
It is the case that Curtis Banks has continued to provide the service  of administering  the 
SIPP.  There is still some  work involved in providing that service even if the SIPP  has little or 
no value because an investment has become worthless or impaired.  It is also possible an 
impaired asset,  like Harlequin, might involve some  additional work   as in this case with 
additional correspondence about  the administration of Harlequin and the proposed  
assignment of the Harlequin investment to FSCS.  Indeed, there  was quite a lot of additional 
work in 2017 for example. So, the levying of some charge does in principle seem  reasonable  
notwithstanding the very frustrating position  Mr P is in having a SIPP that is worthless to him 
in his circumstances  ie his holding  a Harlequin investment and no other assets. 
So, has Curtis Banks done anything to take into account those particular circumstances  
albeit circumstances  that are not of its making  - or has it just adopted  a hard and fast this is 
what the contract says approach? 
In October  2011 Curtis Banks wrote to Mr P to suggest he took advice  about  his investment 
if he had any concerns.  At this time the investment was not thought  to have  lost its value so 
I do not think there is a strong case for saying charges should have been  reviewed  at this 
stage.
It should be remembered that problems with Harlequin came to light in 2013 but they were  
not as clear and well defined as, say, the loss on an investment in a single  company  that 
goes bust.  The nature and extent of the problem was not immediately clear.  It was not clear  
that the investment should be regarded  as permanently  impaired.  This is reflected in Curtis 
Banks letter in November 2013 quoted above.    
Ref: DRN930955511So, although  the Harlequin  investment was written  down to a nominal value  in 2013 it was 
not clear then that the investment was lost for good  and that an adjustment to charges might 
be called  for.
I cannot therefore see that Curtis  Banks was at fault for not taking immediate action in 
relation to the charges  on Mr Ps pension that was invested only in Harlequin  with little 
additional cash reserve.
In 2015 Curtis Banks was told that the FSCS had paid compensation to Mr P.  Curtis Banks 
has made the point  that the way in which the FSCS calculates compensation takes  into 
account the charges levied on the SIPP.    And now that I have seen  a breakdown  of the 
calculations, I do not think Curtis  Banks is entirely right on this point.  As mentioned above it 
is not currently clear to me that all the SIPP fees paid have been refunded to Mr P.  I also 
note that that the compensation paid by the FSCS is capped  so Mr P did not receive 
compensation for the full amount of his loss as calculated  or at least not in his first claim.  
Curtis Banks wrote to Mr P in July 2016  after the first successful FSCS  claim and set out the 
following options for Mr P:
Transfer the SIPP to another  provider
Take pension draw  down and close the SIPP
Continue with the SIPP
Pay any outstanding charges and close the SIPP.
As I understand it Mr P was not happy  to sign Curtis  Banks form without advice and could 
not find an adviser willing to advise him.  So the SIPP continued.  But it does  seem  to be the 
case that Mr P could have  closed  his SIPP at this stage and not incur any further  charges.  
And that choice has remained open but got overtaken by the making of this complaint.
Curtis Banks original  position in 2016  was to continue to charge fees in accordance with the 
contract for anyone who did not close their SIPP.  That means fees were  deducted from any 
cash balance in the account.   In Mr Ps case, he no longer had a cash  balance and so the 
fees were charged  and requested but not paid  though no action was taken to try to compel 
Mr P to add more cash to his account in order to pay his charges.
Later in 2018  Curtis Banks took the decision  to write  off the charges made on accounts that 
held only impaired assets and no other holding including cash.  That  means that Mr Ps 
charges have now been written off since 2015/2016.
Curtis Banks has said the following:
Following a period of review  from January  2018 Curtis Bank SIPP  annual fees will not accrue 
where the SIPP has no value and holding  asset(s) deemed by Curtis Banks as long term 
impaired.  Annual fees will accrue  on SIPPs where  cash is held, like all other SIPPs 
administered by Curtis banks.
Accrued fees will not systematically be cancelled  or removed from SIPPs and Curtis Banks 
will continue to consider  the specific circumstances  of each client on a case by case basis.
This does  seem to me to be a reasonable move away from the strict legal  or contractual  
position in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN930955512In Mr Ps case  Curtis Banks has said that the balance of the fee not paid in 2015  and 
subsequent charges have  been  written  off.  This seems  to be a pragmatic approach  and a 
reasonable approach to take in relation to Mr P  but one that perhaps went  further than 
strictly necessary given,  as I have said, some level of charge would not have been  
unreasonable.  
In 2016 Mr P was given  the opportunity to take steps to close the SIPP by Curtis  Banks  
following his first successful claim to FSCS.  It is not due to any fault on the part of Curtis 
Banks that Mr P could  not get advice on what steps  were  in his best interest.  But  in the 
circumstances if the SIPP  was not closed  it does not seem unfair to carry on charging fees.
It is perhaps arguable  that Curtis Banks  could have  reduced the level of the charges down at 
this point. But Curtis Banks was involved in additional work in relation to the Harlequin 
investments from around this time.
I do not however  need to decide the point in Mr Ps case  because in the event Mr P has paid 
charges up to 2015 only and charges since then have been written  off.  Overall this does not 
seem unfair.  The situation has not been  an easy one for either party and while  continuing to 
charge fees at the non-standard investment rate from 2015 might seem  unfair  to Mr P 
ultimately those fees have  been  waivered. And so I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.  
my final decision
In all the circumstances I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint against Curtis Banks Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9309555