K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
It looks like Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy in 1991 a few years  after they purchased 
their mortgage. But there  is very limited information  available but it looks  like the policy was 
in both their names  and they paid a monthly amount for it. 
Nationwide has upheld  the sale of the policy to Mrs W and it has refunded the costs. So I am 
only looking  at the sale of the PPI to Mr W. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Nationwide  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in 
March 2019, explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold the account. Ive attached  my 
provisional decision to the bottom of this final decision. In summary, I thought the policy 
wouldve been useful  to Mr and Mrs W in their circumstances. 
I asked for any further comments before I issued my final decision. Both parties have 
responded to say they received my provisional  decision  but neither had any further 
comments to add.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
 
As Ive not been given anything further  to consider, my decision remains the same. I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs W complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold  them  a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Ref: DRN96215202background
It looks like Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy in 1991 a few years after they purchased their 
mortgage. But there  is very limited information available but it looks  like the policy  was in both their 
names and they paid a monthly amount for it. 
Nationwide has upheld the sale of the policy to Mrs W and it has refunded the costs.  So I am only 
looking at the sale of the PPI to Mr W. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
 
Im thinking  of not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they werent aware PPI had been added to their mortgage. Nationwide  shouldve 
taken reasonable steps to make  Mr and Mrs W aware that they had a choice about  buying  the PPI. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any documentation  from the sale,  which isnt surprising 
considering this took place such a long time ago.
So Ive looked at everything we know about how Nationwide normally sold PPI around that time. And 
based on what we know about such sales, consumers  were usually asked to choose whether  or not 
they wanted PPI. There is nothing to suggest Nationwide  didnt follow its normal procedures.  Also Mr 
and Mrs W had taken out the mortgage initially without PPI. So I think  its more  likely that Mr and Mrs 
W were given  a choice and they chose to buy the policy, even if they dont remember this now,  many 
years later.
Nationwide says the policy wasnt personally recommended to Mr and Mrs W. So it didnt need to 
check that it was right for them. But it still needed to give them  clear enough information so they could 
decide for themselves  whether they wanted it.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs W as much information as it shouldve done. But 
I dont think better information wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. I say this because  Mr W was 
eligible for the policy  and he doesnt appear to have been affected  by any of the main  things that the 
policy doesnt  cover, such as unusual employment status  or suffering from any medical conditions 
which he was already  aware  of.
Nationwide has told us there was a waiting period of 90 days for the policy to pay out if 
Mr W needed to make  a claim on it. Our adjudicator thought  the complaint  should be upheld on this 
point  as Mr and Mrs W wouldve had to wait a long time to receive any benefit for the policy. 
Ive considered the term in the policy  carefully. And Ive looked  at a sample of the information around 
this waiting period that is likely to have been available  to Mr and Mrs W at the time. So whilst it says 
there will be a 90 waiting period,  it also says that the first payment  covers the time from day 61 up 
until the day 90. So in fact it is only the first 60 days which  are not covered  by the policy. Mr W says 
he wouldnt have received any sick pay benefits from his employer if he was too ill to work. And Mr 
and Mrs W say they didnt have any savings or other means they could rely on. Ive also noticed that 
Mr W hadnt been working for employer for very long. So Ive thought about what  impact,  if any, this 
delay wouldve made to Mr and Mrs Ws decision to take the policy.
Whilst there was a period  of three months where no payment would be made, once this had ended, 
Mr W couldve potentially been covered for up to two years. 
Ref: DRN96215203Mr and Mrs W had on a long term financial  commitment  secured against their home. So I think  they 
wouldve wanted the security that their mortgage repayments would  have been covered  if Mr M was 
unable to work. And, I think they couldve appreciated the financial support this policy  could give them 
long term,  even if they did have to wait a few months. 
So  on balance - I dont think  the 90 waiting  period would have made  a difference  to their choice to 
take out the PPI.
I dont know what information was given  to Mr and Mrs W about the cost of the policy. It may be that 
Nationwide couldve explained the cost better than it did. But I havent seen anything to make me 
think that the policy was unaffordable for them  or any compelling evidence that - they had a 
particular need to keep  costs down. And for all the same reasons why I think  this policy was useful for 
them, I still think  they wouldve bought the policy even  if the cost had been clearer. 
Overall, I dont think Mr and Mrs W have  lost out as a result  of anything  Nationwide mightve  done 
wrong. 
Its been  difficult to decide on this complaint, as I know so little about  how Mr and Mrs W came to 
have the PPI. Ive taken  into account  all of their comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion. And based on the information Ive got, I dont think I can fairly  and reasonably  say the PPI 
was mis-sold  to them. 
Ref: DRN9621520