K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Miss H bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking a loan.  Shes said she bought 
the PPI by post - Halifax says it sold the PPI to Miss H at a branch.
Miss H was employed at the time as a store manager and had been there nine years.  Shes 
told us she was entitled to less than three  months redundancy pay and had savings of 
£2000 she couldve used  to pay her loan if she couldnt work. From what shes told us, she 
was likely also entitled to statutory sick pay. Miss H has told us of a health  condition which  at 
the time of the sale shed had for some years  but with which shed never  been  off work. 
The loan was repayable over 72 months. The monthly loan repayment was £83.75  initially 
with the PPI costing  an additional £8.69 making  the total monthly repayment £92.44. The 
PPI policy  didnt attract interest and could be cancelled without penalty by either party with 
Miss H needing to give written notice  and Halifax needing to give 30 days  written notice.
The policy provided  cover  on Miss H for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and life 
cover, subject to its exclusions and limitations.  For a successful claim it offered to pay the 
amount Miss H had to pay monthly  to Halifax under  her agreement,  including  the monthly 
PPI premium, for up to 60 months for a disability claim  and for up to 12 months for an 
unemployment claim. The life cover  would, subject to its terms, repay the loan on death.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the loan closed in 2006.  Miss Hs representative has 
made lengthy and substantial  representations  on her behalf.  I will not restate them  all here, 
but I have read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Miss Hs representative  says:
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Miss H about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss H and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss H wouldnt have taken 
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Miss Hs representatives believe there to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators  
Ref: DRN91568742opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN91568743The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Hs case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Miss H sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss H suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss H and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss H know  she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Miss H has said she had no interest in PPI 
and says it was just included as part of her loan package. But her loan application form had 
boxes to sign to say either Yes, I would like or No, I do not wish to take  the PPI (which  
Halifax called Personal Loan Repayments Insurance). Miss H signed in the Yes box. And 
I think she wouldve known to sign the No box instead if she didnt wish to take the cover.  
She hasnt  said anything to make  me think she was pressured into taking  the PPI either.  
Ref: DRN91568744Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Miss H knew the PPI was optional and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Miss H didnt answer as to whether Halifax  gave 
advice or not. But if Halifax did give advice, it had to do more. With all this in mind, I think  its 
fair to proceed on the basis that Halifax gave  advice. This means  Halifax  had to advise 
Miss H with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether the PPI was appropriate or 
suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
The loan application form has the amount Miss H was borrowing printed on it  and in the 
corner indicates the involvement of a local branch. So, what  I have makes me think Miss H 
spoke to a Halifax  branch  when applying for the loan. 
But I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish whether the PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss H. Theres no record of what was discussed in relation  to the PPI. 
Halifax had some limited information  about  Miss Hs financial circumstances from the loan 
application, but theres no specific  evidence  to show that Halifax took steps  to establish 
whether Miss H would  be caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  mightve 
meant the PPI didnt  fully meet her needs. For example, theres nothing to suggest Halifax  
considered whether Miss H had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the PPI was suitable  for Miss H given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill. While  Im not persuaded Halifax 
did all it shouldve done to make sure the PPI was suitable for Miss H, I do think  its more 
likely than not the PPI was ultimately suitable for her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken 
into consideration:
-Miss H had a need for the PPI  allowing for the redundancy benefits to which  she says 
she wouldve been entitled, and the statutory sick pay she mightve  received, it seems  
likely Miss H would suffer a fall in income  if she werent  working for an extended period. 
The PPI benefit  would  help her manage  the consequences  in that situation. Also,  by 
covering loan payments, the PPI benefit  would allow Miss Hs savings (which shed kept 
and not used to reduce the amount  she borrowed) to be kept intact  or free to meet  other 
liabilities at what could be a difficult time if Miss H were unemployed or too sick to work.
-Although Miss H says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss H. There  was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which wouldve made it difficult for her to 
claim. She couldnt have claimed for work absences  arising from her existing  health  
issue. But bearing in mind all shes told us about it  including  that it had never kept her 
off work - I dont  think Halifax  ought  to have regarded it as an issue whose  exclusion  
meant the cover was unsuitable for Miss H. And Miss H didnt have any other  health  
issues or pre-existing medical conditions that couldve  affected her ability to claim.
-Miss H met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN91568745the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Miss H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the PPI to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss H was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, it would protect her payments  if she were unable  to work due 
to accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  it unlikely  Miss H wouldve taken the PPI without any sense of 
what it was for and of how much  the premium  might be. Also, the actual  starting premium  
was set out on the credit agreement, so I think it likely Miss H knew  what the premium  would 
be when she applied  for the cover.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Miss H agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss H, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Miss H all the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Hs. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Miss Hs representative considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Miss H about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Miss H has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
Ref: DRN91568746what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Miss  H? To what extent did she suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Miss H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss H, I have  found the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Miss H has 
suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had explained 
things properly, Miss H would have acted differently or whether she would have taken the 
policy in any event.
Miss H says she wouldnt have taken it and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Miss H had some  interest  in taking  payment  protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax offered Miss H the PPI or advised her there  was a 
suitable product  she could  buy that would protect  her loan payments if she were  unable to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Hs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. As Ive 
also already explained, the information  Miss H was given  about  the cost was clear.  But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit  and the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
That said,  while Im not persuaded Halifax made  clear exactly  what Miss H would  get for a 
successful claim, I think it unlikely her expectations  about what  the PPI would pay in the 
event of a claim (enough  to meet what she had to pay monthly to Halifax  under  her loan 
agreement with Halifax)  were significantly different to what  the PPI actually  did pay.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  recurring  within 12 months of the 
policy start if that issue were a chronic  condition known of at the start or if, during  the 
year before  the start,  significant symptoms of it were experienced or it was diagnosed by 
or investigated by, or advice or treatment for it had been suggested by, a medical 
practitioner;
Ref: DRN91568747The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Miss H 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for disability, Miss H be stopped  from doing  her own 
or any similar job and be stopped from doing  any paid work her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Miss H pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss H from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Hs circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Miss H couldnt have claimed  for work absences arising from her existing  health  issue. But 
given all shes told us about  it  including how long shed had it and the fact it had never  kept 
her off work  in that time  Im not persuaded she wouldve given much weight to the idea that 
this health issue  might cause her significant work absences  in future. So if shed known work 
absences arising  from this issue wouldnt be covered, on balance  I dont  think  this wouldve 
changed her decision  to take the cover. Ive no evidence to suggest Miss H wouldve been  
caught by any of the other significant exclusions   she was in permanent employment,  for 
example. With all this in mind, I think Miss H still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss H 
mightve reasonably  expected. But its unlikely she wouldve expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation mightve dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different circumstances to Miss H 
from taking the PPI, Miss H, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Miss H had known she could only claim for disability  if she were stopped from doing her 
own or any similar job, and stopped from doing  any paid work her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it mightve  played  into her thinking  about what  to do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought. But, given her circumstances and her 
limited sick pay entitlement  - and the drop in income  shed  suffer as a result if she were too 
sick to work - on balance  I think Miss H wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Miss H would still have taken  the policy. It was suitable for her, sufficiently close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she were  made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Miss H would have taken the policy in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN91568748Miss Hs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. 
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss H wouldnt have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Miss H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss H in the position she wouldve been  in had she not 
bought the PPI. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Miss H wouldnt have taken the PPI, Im satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she wouldve still taken the PPI had she been 
given clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the PPI she was buying. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, to conclude Halifax 
should pay Miss H compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Hs representative says a court might take were it 
to find Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade 
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out, I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Miss H in 
a better  position than if everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN91568749Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9156874