K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Paysafe Financial Services Limited reversed  two payments made to his 
Neteller account (which  Paysafe operates).  He had supplied crypto-currency in return  for the 
payments and has lost out as a result. Ill refer to Paysafe as Neteller.
background
Mr P opened  a Neteller account which he used to trade in crypto-currencies.  In 
November 2018  he made two trades with the same buyer for a total value €770. He 
delivered the currency to the buyer  as agreed. Shortly afterwards, however, Neteller  
reversed the payments,  leaving Mr P €770 out of pocket. When  he challenged Netellers  
decision, he was told that there were security issues with the payments. Neteller also said 
that its terms and conditions meant that Mr P needed its approval before trading in crypto-
currency  which he didnt  have.
Mr P didnt accept what Neteller had told him. He said he had explained  that he would be 
using his account to trade  in crypto-currency and that he therefore had approval to do so. 
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. In the course of our investigation Neteller 
provided more information  about the security  issues it had identified. It said that the 
payments had been made from a credit  card that didnt  belong to the buyer and that the 
cardholder hadnt  authorised them. The payments had therefore  been returned to the 
cardholder (not to the buyer). Neteller  said too that it had closed the buyers account. 
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ps complaint but concluded that Neteller had acted 
fairly. Since the payments  hadnt been properly authorised by the cardholder, it was right to 
return them  to their source. Mr P didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that 
the matter be reviewed by an ombudsman, as the final stage in our process.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I agree with 
the investigators conclusions, and for many of the same reasons.
Ill deal first of all with the issue of approval  for Mr P to use Netellers services to trade  in 
crypto-currencies. The relevant part of the terms and conditions  requires approval to  
accept payments for certain categories of business   Those categories include money 
exchange. Mr P says that crypto-currencies  arent  money and therefore this doesnt apply. I 
agree with him that trading in crypto-currencies isnt money exchange in the conventional 
sense, but I think the section is wide enough to cover Mr Ps transactions here. 
However, shortly after Mr P opened his account, it was suspended while Neteller asked  him 
more about some other crypto-currency  trades  hed made. When  he provided more 
information  including  information  about  what he was selling  Neteller lifted the temporary 
suspension. So I think he was entitled to think that Neteller had indeed  given its approval  for 
him to use its services for crypto-currency transactions.
The real issue here though  isnt what Mr P was trading in; its that the money  he received 
had come from a credit  card that the buyer  wasnt authorised to use. This service hasnt, of 
course, investigated the use of the credit  card, and its unlikely that Neteller has very much 
information about it either; it would have got its information about that from the card issuer. 
Ref: DRN94757422But I have no reason to think that the card issuer didnt investigate properly before 
concluding that its customers card had been  compromised and that a refund was due. 
The unauthorised payments from the credit card would then have been traced to Mr P and 
returned through his Neteller account. Netellers terms said that it was Mr Ps responsibility 
to ensure that he only received payments in compliance with any applicable laws and 
regulations. That included, in my view, ensuring  that he only received payments that were 
properly authorised by (in this case) the cardholder. If he received unauthorised  payments, 
they would  be returned. 
I have some sympathy for Mr P here. He accepted two payments he didnt  know (and 
couldnt realistically have found out) were fraudulent, and released crypto-currency as a 
result. The person who initiated the payments  has received  that currency  without paying for 
it; and the person who paid for it initially has got their money back. Theres  no suggestion 
that Mr P was involved, other than as an unwitting victim. So hes lost out. That is however  
the risk he took,  and Netellers terms explained that. Neteller had no option but to return the 
stolen money, and it wouldnt be fair if it also has to bear the loss here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont require Paysafe Financial Services  Limited to do any 
more to resolve Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9475742