K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Black Horse  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and end the 
agreement.
background
Mr S tells us that in September 2016  he acquired the motorhome vehicle through  a dealer Ill 
refer to as H. He says the vehicle had first been registered in April 2016 and had covered 
2,500 miles by the time it was supplied to him. Mr S says he reported several faults  with the 
vehicle to H in the week after he acquired it. He says H was very slow to respond and that 
there are still numerous issues still outstanding with the vehicle. He says that having  been in 
contact with H and the manufacturers of the vehicle hes now lost faith in it. Mr S says hes 
supplied a list of existing faults and major  issues include the shower tray being damaged 
prior to purchase; the habitation door not being flush to the body work and the keyhole area 
being damaged;  leaks  to various taps and windows; interlocker cupboards  not working 
properly; damage  to furniture and blinds  and generally poor workmanship. In addition  he 
reports issues with the odometer and gearbox. He feels  the vehicle was sold with hidden 
flaws and isnt fit for purpose.  
Black Horse  told us that Mr S had originally complained  about  numerous issues  in October 
2016. It said that it had tried to contact Mr S in order to discuss these matters  but hadnt  
been able to speak with him. It said itd issued  a final response letter  in December 2016 
which asked Mr S to contact a dealership so the issues could be fully investigated. It said it 
never received confirmation this had been  done. 
Black Horse  advised that the next time it heard from Mr S was 15 months later.  At that time it 
said hed raised  some of the previous concerns but had also brought up new issues.  As a 
result of the latest  complaints Black Horse said that the vehicle had been inspected by M, a 
company of mobile caravan  engineers.  As a result  of the report  prepared  by M, Black Horse  
said numerous issues had been  identified with the vehicle. And itd set out its offer to repair  
some of these issues in a final response  letter sent to Mr S in July 2018.
Black Horse  said itd agreed to pay for repairs to items identified by M as being present or 
developing at the point of supply. It said that other items had been identified  by M as being  
serviceable items; characteristics of the vehicle and not faults; the result  of break-in damage 
and issues where  M had expressed no concern. It said in addition  to these repairs  it would 
offer to refund three months payments to reflect loss of use and £500  for trouble and upset 
caused. It said that Mr S continuing to use the vehicle  with the initially  reported  faults  still 
outstanding had caused further knock on damage. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She issued two views and 
initially thought  that Mr S should be allowed to reject  the vehicle. But following the receipt of 
additional information from Black Horse  she revised her opinion.  She didnt think Mr S 
should be able to reject  it. She said she thought Black Horse hadnt  been given the 
opportunity to repair the vehicle until after the report supplied by M. And that it had now 
agreed to carry out those  repairs  which  M had identified as being present at the point of 
supply. She considered that this, together  with an offer to refund three  monthly payments 
and pay £500  compensation,  was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN97527422Mr S didnt agree and said hed been  mis-sold an item full of flaws. As its not been possible  
to resolve this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr S has experienced problems  with this vehicle and I understand the 
disappointment hes felt at the various faults  and shortcomings hes encountered  with it.
Mr Ss hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Black  Horse  supplied the vehicle and its 
therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the 
law - directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights 
Act of 2015 (CRA).
In summary,  the CRA says that in order to conform to contract  goods  must be of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. And if an issue is identified within six months  of supply which  
causes the goods not to be of satisfactory  quality then its presumed  that issue  was present 
at the point of supply  - unless its established  otherwise. Where goods are found not to be of 
satisfactory quality then - dependent upon the timescale - the customer  usually  has the right 
to reject the goods  or have  them repaired.
Ive been provided  with a substantial amount of information and documents and Ive looked  
at everything with which Ive been supplied. But if I dont refer to an item specifically its not 
because I havent  taken it on board its just that I dont need to mention it separately in order  
to give the reasons for my final decision.
I can see that Mr S has complained of numerous  faults with the vehicle since  the time it was 
first supplied to him. And I can see hes tried contacting various parties  in an attempt to get 
things resolved. Unfortunately, there  has been a long gap between  the first complaint made 
to Black Horse and the latest contact. This has meant that whilst  Black Horse was made  
aware of issues in October  2016 and responded to Mr Ss complaint, its not been able to 
have the vehicle inspected until February 2018  or have  any repairs  carried  out. I can see it 
wrote to Mr S in December  2016 and asked him to arrange for the vehicle  to be taken to a 
dealership for examination. I cant see that this happened and so the complaint was closed.
When Mr S complained again, in February  2018,  the vehicle was inspected by M. Ive 
considered Ms report and Im satisfied it represents an accurate appraisal  of the state  of the 
vehicle at the time it was examined. As the parties  have received a copy of the report  I wont 
repeat each separate finding  here.  But I consider M to be experts  and so Im heavily reliant 
on the conclusions  its inspectors have reached.
Its clear that at the time the vehicle was supplied to Mr S there were faults which  caused it 
not to be of satisfactory quality. But having  complained to Black  Horse, I dont think he gave 
it a reasonable  opportunity to put things right. Black Horse acknowledged Mr Ss concerns 
and asked him to take the vehicle  to be examined by a manufacturers dealer. I cant see 
that this was done or that Black Horse was kept informed of what  was happening.
Ref: DRN97527423Ive no doubt that Mr S was well intentioned  in trying to get matters  resolved through other 
means but as the supplier of the vehicle, as well as the owner, Black Horse was entitled to 
have an opportunity to repair it.
I must also take into account that despite being  aware of the continuing faults Mr S 
continued to make substantial use of the vehicle. I note the comments made by the vehicle 
examiner who inspected  the vehicle in February  2018:
Of all the faults listed in this report very few affect  the intended use of the goods
The motorhome was presented in a very poor condition. I would suspect that some of the 
faults have been contributed to by the continued  heavy  use of the motorhome, despite  faults  
being present.
And I note that Ms inspector - who viewed the vehicle in May 2018 to assess the cost of 
repairs - commented:
this was the worst example I have ever come  across of smoke impregnated furnishing.
An invoice dated November 2018 shows the vehicle has covered an additional 17,000 miles 
or so from the time of supply. So - whilst I accept there was a degree of impairment - its not 
prevented substantial use being made of the vehicle. Accordingly,  I think it was fit for 
purpose at the time of supply.  And the fact that Mr S continued to use the vehicle - despite 
being aware of most of the faults  - isnt consistent with a wish to reject the vehicle. Id also 
expect that - if hed wished to reject the vehicle - Mr S wouldve tried to maintain it in as near 
the condition in which it was supplied as possible.  But Ms report suggests  that not only has 
the vehicle been heavily  used but its not been  well maintained.
Ms report  indicates that in certain  respects the vehicle did not conform to contract at the 
time of supply. And in these circumstances the CRA provides that the supplier of the goods 
should be offered  the opportunity to repair the goods.
Black Horse  has indicated that its prepared  to pay for the repairs  which M identified  as 
arising from issues present at the point of supply. In addition its offered to refund three 
monthly payments  to Mr S to reflect loss of use and/or impaired use of the vehicle together  
with £500 for the trouble  and upset caused.  I think thats fair and reasonable.
I also understand the odometer has been  replaced  and the gearbox was also being  replaced  
under warranty - although Im not aware  if this has now been completed.
In summary,  I think the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
I think that Black Horse should pay for repairs to the items which  are identified by number 
and brief description in Ms report as follows:
      1. Shower unit damage;
      6. Offside window  leak;
      7. Nearside window  leak;
      8. Fault to radio panel screen;
Ref: DRN97527424     10. Missing wood  in corner of bathroom  unit;
     11. Replace seams/silicon;
     12. Replace damaged items  as necessary;
     13. Replace damaged flooring as necessary;
     16. Replace faulty blind;
     24. Repair  plastic blower fixtures;
     29. Secure plinth  of step in habitation area lounge.
Black Horse  has indicated its willingness to do this - and this was confirmed in its final 
response letter of 4 July 2018 and to our investigator.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In order to settle this complaint I now require Black  Horse  Limited  to take the following 
action:
1.Arrange for the specified  repairs (listed  above) which are identified by M in its reports  
of February 2018 and May 2018  to be carried out at no cost to Mr S;
2.Refund three monthly payments  together with simple interest at the rate of 8% from 
date of payment  to date of settlement;
3.Pay £500 compensation to Mr S for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9752742