K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly increased his motor 
insurance premium.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mr B had a motor policy with UKI. In 2019 his premium rose considerably.  Mr B complained  
to UKI. It noted that it had made a mistake when  it offered to renew his policy and reduced 
his premium. But this was still an increase on the previous years premium  of around £45. 
UKI told him that was the best price it could  offer. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think that UKI had done anything 
wrong. Mr B didn't agree  so his complaint's  been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I can understand why Mr Bs not happy.  His premium has risen year on year,  hes been a 
loyal customer of UKI for many years, and hes seen particularly steep increases in premium  
over recent years. But that doesn't mean that UKIs  done anything  wrong.  
As Mr B is aware insurance is essentially an assessment of risk. When deciding  how much  
to charge for their policies  insurers will make an assessment of the likelihood that their 
policyholders will make a claim and how much they might have to pay out for those.  And 
insurers will take into account a number of different factors when deciding what  to charge for 
insurance. And if the insurers assessment  of risk increases, it may decide to increase the 
premium. Thats something that insurers are allowed  to do.
I need to be absolutely clear that were not the industry regulator; the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) is. That means its not my role to tell an insurer  how much it can charge for 
its policies. Neither is it my role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account 
when assessing  risk. Different  insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and 
the extent of those.  Thats  essentially a matter  of commercial judgement  and not something 
we would usually  think is fair to interfere with. 
Also, like any business, an insurer has to think about its costs  and profit margins  to remain  
sustainable. A customer may expect a simple explanation for a price increase like Mr Bs 
experienced. But for an insurer,  there  may be hundreds, or even thousands of variables it 
has to consider when  setting a premium  including its own commercial requirements. And 
we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat 
customers with similar circumstances  in the same way - insurers  are entitled to charge what  
they feel they need to in order to cover  a risk. 
In this case Im aware that Mr B thinks that his risk factors haven't changed. So he doesn't  
understand the steep rises  in premium. But insurers will re-rate  the risks they consider 
regularly. And many  insurers will do this on a daily basis. So the quotes  an insurer  provides 
will vary from day-to-day and year-to-year as their assessment of those risk factors  change. 
Ref: DRN99045272UKIs given  us some information about  how its calculated Mr Bs premiums. That 
information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with him. But, having looked at it 
carefully, Im satisfied UKI treated Mr B as it would  other consumers with similar  
circumstances. So, although I'm not in a position to explain to him why UKI raised his 
premium by the amount that it did, Im satisfied that it dealt with him fairly and that it hasn't  
singled him out.
Im aware that Mr B has recently  moved his motor  insurance to another provider who offered 
a far cheaper premium than UK did. And, given that he thinks the risks he poses to his new 
insurer must be similar to the risks UKI assessed,  he appears to think this is evidence  that 
UKI was ripping him off. But I don't think that's the case. 
I havent looked into how Mr Bs new insurer has calculated his premium. But motor 
insurance is an extremely competitive market.  And some insurers  offer new customer 
discounts that arent applicable to existing customers. Also, as I've said above,  every insurer 
Im aware of assesses risk differently. And as each insurer makes their own assessment of 
the risks its asked to cover, each  will return a different premium. So the fact that one insurer  
might rate a risk as being higher than another doesn't automatically mean that the insurer  
who charges a higher premium as a result has acted unfairly. And as Mr B is aware he 
wasn't under any obligation to renew with UKI. It follows that I think  its dealt with him fairly.
Mr B told us that he would  like me to defer my decision until the outcome of a government 
enquiry into the insurance pricing issue. I think the enquiry Mr B is referring  to is the FCAs 
market study into General Insurance Pricing Practices, which it intends to publish its 
findings on later this year. But I don't think I need  to defer  making my decision until the FCA 
has published its final report. Thats because its unlikely that any rule changes or 
recommendations the FCA makes will be back-dated. So I don't  think it would be fair to 
decide whether  UKI has acted fairly based  upon  standards or rules  that werent in place at 
the time.  So Im satisfied  its reasonable not to further delay my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9904527