K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Lloyds Bank  PLC, Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds), 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs E bought the PPI policy in 1997 at the same time as taking a mortgage.  They  
applied for the policy and mortgage at a meeting.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs E for disability and unemployment - subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. The full benefit would  pay Mr and Mrs Es monthly  mortgage  
payment (around  £223 at the time of the mortgage  offer)  plus £3 for every £1000  of their 
initial mortgage (around £105) and premiums for certain associated  insurances if those 
insurances were taken with Lloyds.  For a successful claim on Mr E 70% of the benefit would 
be paid and 30% would be paid for a successful claim  on Mrs E. The policy  was expected to 
cost £17.50 according to its schedule.
The mortgage application Mr and Mrs E signed at the time says Mr E worked  as a driver and 
had been in his employment for around  three  years, and Mrs E worked  as a sales  assistant 
and had been in her employment for around  eight years. I think  this is likely to reflect the 
situation at the time  although  Mr and Mrs E have also told us both that Mr E was a new 
starter and that he had worked at his employer  for four years.
Mr and Mrs E have  suggested they were entitled  to twelve months or more pay for sickness  
or redundancy. But theyve been inconsistent in what theyve told us about this. Most 
recently theyve said Mr E was entitled  to statutory sick pay and Mrs E to full sick pay for 
between three and six months.  With all this and Mr and Mrs Es jobs and length of service  in 
mind, I think  Mr E was entitled  to statutory sick pay and Mrs E to no more than six months 
sick pay and neither was entitled to twelve months  or more pay for sickness or redundancy.
Mr and Mrs E have  told us they didnt  have any health problems at the time of the sale  and 
also told us they both had health problems but without giving any details. Ive nothing  to 
point to any specific health issue that Mr or Mrs E might have had. So, based on what I 
have, I think Mr and Mrs E were in good  health at the time.
Mr and Mrs E have  said they each had £25,000 in savings at the time.  But theyve also told 
us their savings and other means to pay their mortgage were  worth less than six months of 
their pay  and £25,000  was almost double Mr Es salary and almost four times Mrs Es. So 
what Mr and Mrs E have  said about  their savings  seems to contain  contradictions.  Also their 
mortgage application says they were making monthly repayments on unsecured  borrowing.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2006.
Mr and Mrs Es representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Es representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs E wouldnt have 
Ref: DRN99868722taken the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Es representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr and Mrs E 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs E and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs E received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs E disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
Ref: DRN99868723s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN99868724-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs E with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs E, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs E 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs E 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below.
did Mr and Mrs E know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs E have  said they had no 
interest in PPI and it was just included as part of the mortgage package.  But to take the PPI 
Mr and Mrs E signed a separate PPI application.  So, it looks  like the PPI was presented as 
separate from the mortgage. Ive not seen anything from the time to suggest Mr and Mrs E 
had to take the PPI or had to sign the application  for it if they didnt want it. Taking everything 
into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs E knew  the policy was optional and they 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it did provide  advice  during this sale. Mr and Mrs E say it didnt. But if Lloyds did 
provide advice, it had to do more. With this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the basis  
that Lloyds provided  advice.  This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs E with reasonable 
care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs  
and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs E. The adviser had information about some of Mr and Mrs Es financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application  for example their salaries and roughly 
how long each had been with their employer. But I dont think  Lloyds did enough to ensure 
the PPI was suitable and establish Mr and Mrs E had a need  for it. For example Ive nothing  
to show that Lloyds asked about  Mr and Mrs Es work sickness  or redundancy benefits.
The declaration signed by Mr and Mrs E on the PPI application,  asked  that they confirm that 
they were working  at least 16 hours  per week, had been working for at least six months  and 
werent aware of any impending unemployment  or hospitalisation and werent  receiving 
ongoing treatment  for conditions  of a persistent or recurring nature. But I cant  see that 
Ref: DRN99868725Lloyds established  that all these points applied to Mr and Mrs E before  giving  them the 
application to sign.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs E given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs E, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs E had a need for the policy.  If Mr or Mrs E became unemployed or too sick to 
work for a prolonged period (or a short period  where entitlement was to statutory benefits 
only), they wouldve  suffered a loss of income. The policy benefit wouldve helped  them  
manage the consequences  of that at what could be a difficult time if Mr or Mrs E were  
disabled or unemployed. If Mr and Mrs E had savings they had chosen  to keep and not 
use to reduce the mortgage at the start, the policy  benefit, by helping  with mortgage 
related costs and so protecting their home, wouldve also helped Mr and Mrs E keep 
such savings intact, or free to meet  other liabilities.
-Mr and Mrs E met the eligibility criteria for the policy and the monthly cost appears to 
have been affordable  for them.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs E. There  
was nothing about Mr and Mrs Es employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for them to claim.  And, based on what Ive seen, they didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that couldve affected their ability to claim.  There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the fact no benefit  was payable for the first 60 days  of 
disability or unemployment and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Es circumstances, and in particular the loss of income they could suffer 
as a result of work  absence due to disability  or unemployment and the consequences 
this would have  on their ability to meet mortgage  related  costs while preserving any 
savings they had but had chosen  to keep  rather than use for the mortgage;  and 
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to Mr and Mrs Es 
home and the potential  consequences should  they be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Ref: DRN99868726Mr or Mrs E were unable  to work  through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs E 
would have taken  the policy without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much 
the premium might  be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or the exclusions or limitations 
before Mr and Mrs E agreed  to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs E Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs E all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Es representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Es. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Es representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs E about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs E have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs E? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs E suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it shouldve  done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs E. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs E suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs E would have still taken the policy, had Lloyds done things properly.
Ref: DRN99868727While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs E, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs E have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs E would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs E say they wouldnt have taken  it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs E had some  interest  in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  offered the PPI or advised them there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mr and Mrs E the exact  premium at the point they applied for 
the policy. But I consider it more  likely  than not that Mr and Mrs E knew they would have to 
pay something for the policy, and were made aware of the approximate costs.  I also bear in 
mind that the actual  premium was set out on a policy schedule sent to Mr and Mrs E before 
the first premium was taken - so if this was significantly at odds with what Mr and Mrs E had 
expected at the point of sale its possible they might  have  raised this with Lloyds at the time 
or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs E would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs E would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its likely they expected,  if 
they werent also told, that in the event of a claim the policy  would pay an amount sufficient 
to meet  their monthly mortgage payment.  So I think the policy at least met Mr and Mrs Es 
likely expectations about that and, if anything, actually paid more  in the event of a claim than 
they would  have expected  - as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs E thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims for disability due to any pre-existing health  issue  (a health  
issue Mr or Mrs E knew or ought to have known  about at the policy  start date or had 
Ref: DRN99868728seen or arranged to see a doctor  for in the 12 months before the policy  start date) 
occurring or re-occurring during the first 24 months of cover;
The policy limited and in some situations  excluded unemployment  cover  for those who 
werent permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr or Mrs E not only be 
unable to do his or her own job but also be unable  to do any similar job the insurer 
thought he or she was or might  reasonably  become  qualified for in view of his or her 
training, education  and ability;
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months per claim, rather than the remaining  
term of the mortgage; and  
The cover  provided  for a policyholder  ended  once  they turned 65 or, for unemployment 
and if earlier, when  they retired or started  receiving their state  pension.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs E pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs E from taking the 
policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr and Mrs E wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  they didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and were in permanent employment. So, I think they still 
had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs E would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs E had known they could  only claim for disability if he or she were  not only 
unable to do his or her own job but also unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he 
or she was or might reasonably become  qualified  for in view of his or her training, education 
and ability, it might have played into their thinking about what to do. And I accept  it may have  
given them pause for thought  although  its possible  they may not have been  too concerned 
given that if Mr or Mrs E were unable (through disability) to do their own job, the chances 
that he or she would  be able to take up a similar job would also,  in all probability,  be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs E that the first 60 days of disability or unemployment 
wouldnt be covered   and it may not have  told them  that any claim they made  would be 
limited to a 12 month period. All this may have differed from what  Mr and Mrs E expected 
and might have hoped for. But 12 months  was longer (much longer in Mr Es case) than 
Mr or Mrs E wouldve received full sick pay for and their redundancy entitlement was also 
likely significantly less than 12 months  income.  So, given the loss or income Mr and Mrs E 
could suffer if one or the other lost their job or was too sick to work, I consider it likely they 
would still have thought a policy that after 60 days paid the mortgage  payments for up to 12 
months, would  be of benefit  to them and would help them manage the consequences if 
Ref: DRN99868729Mr or Mrs E couldnt work  in the circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for 
multiple claims to be made  and it could help reduce Mr and Mrs Es outgoings at a difficult 
and uncertain time, making it less likely their home would be placed at risk and helping  to 
keep their savings intact or free for other purposes.
Mr and Mrs E have  complained they would have ceased to be eligible  to claim when Mr E 
reached 65 and Mrs E reached  age 60 during the term. But Mr and Mrs E were, respectively, 
in their mid and early  40s when they took the PPI, so I think  its more likely than not they 
wouldve thought  theyd still get some  value out of having the PPI, as it would have covered 
them for a reasonable period of time before  they turned 65 or became eligible to draw the 
state pension.  Also the mortgage was due to end while Mr and Mrs E were still in their fifties.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs E would still have  taken the policy. The policy was suitable  for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr or Mrs E were made redundant, or 
unable to work through disability. In the circumstances I consider it more  likely than not 
Mr and Mrs E would have taken the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Es representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs E would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption.
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs E believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN998687210That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Lloyds  should pay Mr and Mrs E compensation, as that would put them in a 
better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done.
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs E think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs E, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1997  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Es representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs E and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs E in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 November  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9986872