K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about how QIC Europe  Ltd handled and settled a claim she made under 
her home insurance policy for storm damage.
background
Mrs S holds a buildings and contents  insurance policy,  which is underwritten by QIC Europe 
Ltd (hereafter  referred to as QIC).  QIC said the policy was incepted on 4 March  2017 and a 
copy of the policy terms and schedule were made available to Mrs S.
On 1 October 2018, following  an episode of very heavy rain and wind, water entered Mrs S 
bedroom via a crack in the ceiling.  She said she later noticed  a tile from her roof had 
dislodged and fallen, which caused  damage  to the kitchen  roof.  
On 10 October 2018 Mrs S contacted  QIC to report the damage caused and make  a claim. It 
appointed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as T within this decision, to determine the cause of 
the damage. Mrs C said, by the time T visited her property, the damage had worsened. 
T visited  Mrs Cs property  and completed an inspection report on 29 October 2018. In its 
report it stated that water  had entered Mrs S bedroom due to an existing crack in the ceiling 
which had been  present  for some time. It also noted external damage to the main roof  both 
front and rear. 
T thought  water was ingressing via the chimney which it stated was in a very poor state as a 
result of age. It commented that there is a vast amount of moss growing out of the side of 
the chimney, the flashing is loose and falling out. There is also some slipped lead in certain  
places where the main  house meets the neighbours wall, this is all due to age. At the back 
of the house a slate has slipped our coming down  off the tiled roof landing on the extension 
below smashing one of the tiles. The slate slipped due to age and nail corrosion and 
therefore would not be covered under the policy. Broken tiles would be considered  
accidental damage  but the insured does not have  accidental damage on the policy  so the 
claim should be declined  in full.
Following Ts attendance  at Mrs S property QIC reviewed weather recorded at around  the 
date Mrs S said the damage occurred. It said the highest winds  recorded were  35mph, which  
didnt meet its storm criteria. So, it didnt  think  Mrs S had satisfied it that the water ingress 
had been caused by a one off weather event. Instead it thought  it had been caused  by a 
gradual issue relating  to the condition of the chimney, which it said was excluded under the 
terms of Mrs S policy. So it declined her claim.
Unhappy with this, Mrs S brought her complaint  to our service. Our investigator assessed  
the evidence provided by Mrs S and QIC but didnt uphold this complaint. They  werent 
satisfied there was a storm  at around the time the damage had occurred and agreed  with Ts 
opinion on the cause of damage. Overall  they thought QIC had acted fairly in declining to 
cover this claim. But Mrs S disagreed  and asked an ombudsman  to review her complaint. 
Ref: DRN95445032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that damage  occurred to Mrs S property. However, theres a 
disagreement between  the parties  about the cause of the damage and correct outcome of 
this claim.  
Mrs S would like QIC to cover the damage  to her property because she feels it was caused 
by adverse weather. Her policy  with QIC covers damage caused by a storm. But for a claim 
to be accepted under this peril Mrs S must  show that any damage was the direct  result of a 
single weather event.  
When considering  a claim for damage caused by a storm I need to consider  three  main  
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage  consistent with what we would  normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Our investigator explained our three stage approach to considering storm claims. And I can 
see they told Mrs S that we can only fairly  say a claim should be upheld  under the storm 
peril if we can answer 'yes' to all of the questions  above.
In weighing  up the first question  Ive looked to see if Mrs S policy  defines storm. She told 
our service  she wasnt aware of what her insurance policy  said about storm claims. But 
based on the evidence Ive seen  Im satisfied QICs policy  terms and conditions  were made 
available when her policy was incepted. I appreciate  that Mrs S may have chosen  not to 
read her policy documents. But this isnt something  I can fairly hold QIC responsible for.
Looking at Mrs S policy I can see it defines  storm as winds  of Force  10 or above (as 
defined under the internationally recognised  Beaufort Scale). This equates  to a wind speed  
of at least 55pmh.
Having reviewed weather  records  for Mrs S locality at around the time the damage occurred 
I cant see any wind speeds  recorded  of 55mph or above. While  Ive taken into account  what  
Mrs S told our service about the weather at around  the time the damage  occurred  the 
highest wind speeds Ive seen recorded  were 35 mph. So, there  isnt enough  evidence  to 
satisfy me there were winds prevalent  at the time the damage  occurred  which meet QICs 
definition of a storm. And, as Im not persuaded that a storm occurred around the time of the 
damage, I dont need to go on to address questions two or three as outlined  above. 
Ive mentioned in the background to this complaint that Mrs S policy excludes damage that 
happens gradually or is caused by wear  and tear. This is in common with most home 
insurance policies  because insurance is intended  to cover the unforeseen  and something 
wearing out or requiring  maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
If an insurer wishes to decline a claim on the basis of wear  and tear it has to show that this is 
how the damage happened. In this case  QIC relies on Ts opinion that the damage was caused  
gradually. Ive carefully studied the report from T and I think  it clearly explains why it believes 
water was ingressing via the chimney  as is set out in the background to this complaint.  
Ref: DRN95445033I can see Mrs S doesnt accept Ts comments about  the cause of damage but T is a 
recognised organisation that regularly  assesses property damage on behalf of insurers.  And 
our service  thinks  its right for an insurer to instruct companies with expertise to inspect a 
customers property to assist it in determining the cause  of damage. 
Ive seen photographs which support what T has stated in its report. Im satisfied these 
photographs show the chimney  is in a poor condition. I can also see nail tingles, which have 
been fitted on the tiles from previous repairs and become loose allowing the tile to slip.  
I dont think QIC acted  unfairly in relying on Ts expertise  in assessing Mrs S claim for 
damage. And I can see she hasnt provided any evidence that discredits Ts opinion or 
findings. I know Mrs S will disagree  with me but I think  its, most  likely, that the adverse 
weather she experienced in October  2018 highlighted the poor condition  of, and pre-existing 
issues with, the chimney and caused  it to worsen.  
I can see our investigator thought carefully about whether any damage Mrs S property 
sustained could be covered as accidental  damage. However, I can see from Mrs S policy  
schedule that this cover isnt included in the policy incepted by her. So, I cant  say QIC acted 
unfairly in declining this claim.
 
I appreciate that Mrs S will be disappointed  with my decision. But, for the reasons outlined, 
Im satisfied that QIC has shown our service reliable evidence  to demonstrate that the 
damage was caused by wear and tear, which happened over a period of time. Im not 
persuaded it was caused by a one-off storm event, which is what is covered by Mrs S policy. 
So, I cant fairly ask it to cover this claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Julie Robertson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9544503