K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains about how UK Insurance Limited  (trading as Privilege) handled  and settled a 
claim he made under his home insurance  policy after he suffered an escape of water. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 16 April 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld.  I also 
outlined the reasons why I hadnt been able to utilise some of the evidence  Privilege 
provided our service.
In my provisional decision I explained  that I hadnt seen any evidence that demonstrated a 
grout or sealant  issue was responsible for the water damage to Mr Os property or that he 
ought to have suspected  a leak based  on what he could immediately see.
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. And 
I said I was happy  to review and assess any further  evidence that Privilege may wish to 
provide as long as it was in a format  that I could view and access. 
Mr O responded to my provisional decision and accepted the provisional  findings Id made. 
However, Privilege  responded with a number  of points about  the general  condition of Mr Os 
bathroom, bedroom and kitchen. It disagreed with my provisional decision and provided 
photographs, which it felt supported its comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision Privilege felt the damage  sustained by Mr Os 
property was due to an escape  of water, which was caused by a problem with the shower 
seal. It said water had travelled down  into the kitchen and bedroom.  It thought the damage 
within the bathroom had been  ongoing  for some time and it noted water  damage to the 
kitchen units and ceiling damage to the kitchen. 
As outlined  in my provisional decision,  following an inspection at Mr Os property, Privilege 
concluded that the damage to the bathroom, bedroom and kitchen ceiling below would have  
been visible for some time. And so it felt Mr O ought to have been aware of water  leaking 
from the bathroom due to the damage it had noted  elsewhere. Overall, Privilege concluded 
that Mr Os property had been  poorly maintained.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  when Privilege it declined  Mr Os claim, it informed 
him this was because it felt the damage  had occurred over a long period of time.  And it said 
issues with the grouting  or shower sealant were excluded under his policy.
When I initially reviewed this complaint Privilege had provided our service with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Os policy, notes from its records, a brief report from the loss adjuster and 
photos that were  taken  of Mr Os property. 
Ref: DRN94509342As I mentioned in my provisional decision the quality of the photographs Privilege provided 
our service  werent sufficiently clear  to enable me to see the damage or its cause.  And it 
didnt provide a copy of the video that could be viewed. So, I wasnt  able to consider the 
content of that video  in assessing this complaint.  Privilege has now provided  our service with 
clearer photographs and a commentary or what it says the photos show. But I still havent 
seen the video. 
In its response to my provisional decision Privilege comments  that the rest of the property 
looks in a relatively decent state of repair (the non-effected areas) . But this contradicts the 
conclusions it reached following  a loss adjusters visit to Mr Os property  that the property 
had been poorly  maintained.  
In its response to my provisional decision Privilege said Mr Os bathroom appeared to be in 
a good state of repair, generally well kept and finished to a good  standard.  Tiles above the 
tray and around  the area that remained look in good  condition, as does the grouting.
This statement appears to contradict Privileges  view about what  it deemed  to be the cause 
of the escape  of water  namely sealant  and grouting issues.  I say this because if the 
grouting and sealant  were  defective the bathroom cant  reasonably be described to be in 
good overall condition.
Ive seen a photograph, which Im told gives an overview of the shower  tray area.  However, 
this photograph is blurred and so its unclear whats depicted. Ive also been provided  with a 
photograph of the corner of the bathroom  beneath the shower tray. But there are limitations 
in the value of this photo as it is too dark for me to make anything  out. 
Ive been provided  with an image  of the floor tiles next to where the shower tray was. The 
moisture reading shows the area is dry. So, if water had been pooling underneath  the 
shower tray Mr O wouldnt necessarily have been  aware water  was escaping until the 
shower tray had been removed.
The photographs of Mr Os bathroom havent  shown me that there was a problem with the 
sealant or the grouting. So, Im not persuaded its fair for Privilege refuse to meet his claim 
on the basis of the failure, wear  and tear or lack of grouting or sealant  policy  exclusion.
Privilege has provided clearer photographs of the lower part of Mr Os bedroom  wall and 
kitchen ceiling, which it says proves  he ought reasonably to have been aware of the damage 
occurring.
Privilege says the photograph of the lower part of Mr Os bedroom  wall shows the damage 
had been ongoing for some time. It shows a hole in the skirting  board and floor.  And 
Privilege stated the structure  of the floor would have started to feel weakened, which  it would 
have expected Mr O to have noticed.
I can see the hole in the skirting board clearly. But I havent been  shown  whats on the other 
side of the skirting board. So, Im unaware  of the condition of the skirting  board on the 
adjoining wall. And I havent seen anything  to show me that the hole in the bedroom skirting 
board would have been  visible  to Mr O. It could, for example, have been obscured by an 
item of furniture. So, Im not persuaded Im able to safely infer Mr O ought reasonably to 
have been aware  of the damage in his bedroom.
Ref: DRN94509343I can see Privilege feels there would  have been a damp odour present. But it hasnt said 
there was a damp odour was present. And I havent  seen  any evidence from the loss 
adjuster that inspected  Mr Os property,  which confirmed the presence of any odour. So, I 
cant safely conclude there was a damp odour present that ought  to have alerted Mr O to an 
escape of water.
In its response to my provisional decision Privilege told our service the staining on the 
kitchen ceiling appeared recent. And it felt the large patch had not happened  as a result of a 
'one off incident'. Instead, it thought  this had happened gradually.  
While I understand the point Privilege is making  here Mr O was candid about  similar  leaks 
hed experienced in 2011 and 2017,  which had caused water  staining to the kitchen ceiling. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  that allows me to safely infer when the water staining  that 
can be seen on the photograph Privilege has provided took place. It is possible, and 
plausible, that the staining could be from the leaks Mr O experienced in 2011 or 2017  or 
even both. And Im therefore not persuaded  the staining can be safely  attributed to the most 
recent escape of water  Mr O suffered. 
I should add that I havent  seen any photographs of the mould, which  Privilege said was 
growing from a large spotted patch on the kitchen  ceiling. It told our service this mould  
indicated that the escape of water had been ongoing for some time. However, even if I had 
seen photos of the mould I wouldnt necessarily be persuaded  by this argument because, as 
I explained in my provisional decision,  mould can grow very quickly   certainly within  48 
hours.
Ive thought about everything Privilege said in response to my provisional decision but I still 
havent seen sufficient evidence to satisfy  me, on balance, that issues with the sealant and 
grouting caused the escape of water  or that Mr O ought to have suspected a leak based on 
what he could immediately see. It follows that I havent seen enough to show  Mr O ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware of the damage occurring. I therefore remain persuaded that 
its unfair for Privilege to refuse to meet  a claim his claim.
While Im grateful to Privilege for the comments it provided they havent persuaded me to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision. I still think this complaint should 
be upheld in line with my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve this complaint I require UK 
Insurance Limited (trading as Privilege) to pay the claim Mr O made in connection with the 
water damage to his home.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94509344copy provisional decision 16 April 2020
complaint
Mr O complains about how UK Insurance Limited  (trading as Privilege)  handled and settled a claim  he 
made under his home insurance policy after he suffered an escape of water. 
background
Mr O held a home  insurance policy  with Privilege.  In 2018 he made  a claim under his policy  for water 
damage within his property, following  a leak in his bathroom. Mr O said,  as a result  of this leak, he 
had to replace  the shower and wooden  floorboards. He also said his bedroom and kitchen had 
sustained damage, which needed to be repaired.
Privilege appointed a loss adjuster, who Ill refer to as P in this decision,  to inspect the damage 
sustained to Mr Os property  and ascertain the cause of the escape of water. When P visited Mr Os 
property it took photographs  and made a video  of the inspection.  Afterwards,  it produced a brief 
report. 
P took a moisture reading, which  it said indicated the escape of water was due to a problem with the 
shower seal, which was causing water to travel down into the kitchen and bedroom. It thought  the 
damage within the bathroom had been ongoing for some time and it noted  water damage to the 
kitchen units and ceiling damage to the kitchen. 
P thought  damage to the bathroom, bedroom and kitchen ceiling below would have been visible for 
some time. And so it felt Mr O ought to have  been  aware  of water  leaking from the bathroom due to 
the damage it had noted elsewhere.  Overall, P felt Mr Os property had been poorly maintained.
Based on what P told Privilege it declined Mr Os claim.  It told him that damage occurring  over a long 
period of time, which was due to an issue  with the grouting or shower sealant, was excluded under  his 
policy. 
Mr O thought  this was unfair. He said he had noticed  a thin crack in the kitchen ceiling around six 
months before the escape  of water. But he denied being  aware of any problem with the grouting. He 
said hed experienced a similar  leak in 2011 and 2017, which had caused water staining  to the kitchen 
ceiling. And he also said, after the leak in 2017, a plumber had removed the old grouting in the 
bathroom and replaced it. In addition to that Mr O said hed had his bathroom sink repaired, shower 
changed and the sealant around the shower  tray replaced. 
When Privilege spoke to Mr Os plumber  they confirmed  theyd attended his property and had noted 
water damaged floorboards when removing the shower  tray. They  stated there was no damage to the 
shower tray itself and confirmed  that the grout and sealant all appeared in good order.  They  said 
there was nothing obvious  to show how the escape of water had taken place. But Privilege 
maintained its stance  in declining Mr Os claim.
Being unhappy with how Privilege had dealt with his claim  for water damage  Mr O complained to our 
service. After our investigator looked into what had happened they didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Overall, they were persuaded that the damage had taken place over some time, which Mr O ought to 
have been aware of. They  were satisfied  the damage was excluded under the terms of Mr Os policy. 
So, they didnt think Privilege  had acted unfairly in declining his claim. But Mr O disagreed with our 
investigators view and asked  for this complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN94509345my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im departing  from what our investigator has said.  Ill 
explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint in rather less detail than theyve been 
presented. I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, 
and if I havent mentioned  something,  it isnt because  Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt  think it 
was material  to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent  with what  our enabling  
legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a fair outcome will 
turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion 
peripheral. 
Our service is impartial, we dont take either sides  instructions on how we investigate  a complaint, 
and we dont regulate or punish businesses. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments 
to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In this case Privilege appointed P to inspect  the damage sustained to Mr Os property and ascertain  
the cause of the escape of water. As Ive mentioned  in the background  to this complaint P produced 
photographs, a video and brief report.
I can see that Mr O has questioned the independence of P. But our service  thinks  its right for an 
insurer to instruct a loss adjuster with expertise to inspect a customers property to assist it in 
determining the cause of damage. Here Privilege  appointed P to do that and I cant fairly  find it acted 
unfairly in doing so. 
When we assess insurance complaints we look to an insurer to provide its full business file. Here, 
Privilege provided our service with the terms and conditions  of Mr Os policy,  notes from its records, 
Ps brief report and photos it took of Mr Os property. 
The quality of the photographs Privilege has provided  our service  arent sufficiently clear to enable  me 
to see the damage or its cause. And hasnt  provided  a copy  of the video that could be viewed.  So, Im 
unable to consider the content of that video.
The terms  of Mr Os policy  state  that any damage caused gradually, by wear and tear or poor 
maintenance is excluded. The policy also specifically  excludes damage caused by the failure, wear 
and tear or lack of grouting or sealant.
However, where damage has been caused gradually our approach would  be to determine whether Mr 
O ought reasonably  to have been aware  of the damage  occurring.
Mr O has given our service an account to explain why he was unaware of the escape of water until it 
happened. Ive no reason to doubt what he says here. And, as I was unable to utilise the evidence 
Privilege provided our service, I havent seen anything that demonstrates that a grout or sealant issue 
is responsible for the water  damage  to Mr Os property. Ive also seen no evidence  to demonstrate 
that Mr O ought to have suspected  a leak based on what he could immediately see. 
Our investigator thought a large spotted patch  on the kitchen ceiling, which  appeared  to have mould 
growing, indicated  that the problem had been  ongoing for some  time. However, Im not persuaded by 
this argument because mould can grow  very quickly  certainly within 48 hours.
I understand that Mr O and Privilege both feel very strongly  about  the issues  raised in this complaint 
and Ive carefully considered  everything theyve said. But theres no evidence that Im able to consider 
which shows the cause of the escape  or water,  that it had been  caused over some time and which 
demonstrates why Mr O ought to have been aware  of this.
Ref: DRN94509346Im happy to review  and assess any further evidence that Privilege may wish to provide. But any 
evidence it provides  will need  to be viewable. If Privilege wishes to show our service  the video P took 
it will need  to find a way of providing that evidence  in a format that I can view and access.
So, for the reasons set out above and based on the evidence I currently have available, I think its 
unfair for Privilege to rely on a clause  that allows it refuse to meet a claim due to the absence  of 
sealant or grout. Unless Privilege provides evidence that I can view and assess  my provisional 
decision is that Im therefore  minded to uphold  this complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded to uphold this complaint. 
Mr O and UK Insurance Limited (trading as Privilege) have until 12 May 2020 to send me anything 
further theyd like me to consider before I make  my final decision.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9450934