K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Miss W. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 alongside a store credit account. 
Miss W was sold the policy at the same time that she applied  for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint. This is because Miss W was diagnosed  with a 
significant lifelong disease some years before  she took out the PPI policy. She consulted a 
doctor about it in the 12 months  before the policy started.  I also think it likely that this 
particular illness meant there was a reasonable chance she would want to make a claim at 
some point, but was unlikely to have that claim paid under the terms of the PPI policy. 
I dont have evidence  that FICL clearly warned Miss W about this limitation  in the policy,  and 
I think its likely that this didnt happen.  I dont think Miss W would have taken the policy  if 
shed been properly informed.  
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Miss W in the financial position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss W would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss W owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her 
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss W would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
Ref: DRN97947492The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss W would have owed each  month without PPI  
Miss W paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Miss W paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest  until the point  
when Miss W wouldve owed FICL something on her credit.  The interest  rate should be 
8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Miss W what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss W that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint. I require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9794749