K821x#15complaint
Miss O has complained about a number of loans  she took out through a company called  
Elevate Credit International Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Miss O says she was 
lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused  her financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Sunny throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Miss O took out some instalment 11 loans from Sunny between August 
2017 and August 2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Miss Os borrowing with Sunny, based  
on the information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this 
decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
for loan number 1 - and - also loan numbers  6 - 11. Sunny made an offer to settle the 
complaint but Miss O doesnt agree to this so the complaint has come  to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Miss Os 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Miss O could  repay all the loans  she was given in a sustainable  manner.  These checks  
ought to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being  
lent, the total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN96470002There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss O could  sustainably repay  the loans; not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loans  being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Miss O could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Miss O. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern of lending history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen  that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some 
point, Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
The circumstances of this case  are relatively  unusual in that for loan 1 the self-declared  
income and expenditure Miss O appears  to have supplied to Sunny, clearly ought to have 
demonstrated that she couldnt  afford the loan. The amount she was required to pay back, 
together with her other  monthly outgoings,  left her so little left that I dont think  Sunny should  
have lent her the money. Our adjudicator comprehensively explained this previously and I 
agree with their logic  loan 1 was irresponsible and in my view contributed to Miss O having 
financial problems. Im therefore upholding the complaint about loan 1.
Ive thought long and hard about  loans 2  5 because Miss Os self-declared expenditure, 
particularly her housing  costs, seem to have dropped without explanation. But I know she 
lived with relatives at the time and bearing in mind  what Ive said above about  the length  of 
the lending relationship, I think  the basic checks which Sunny most likely carried out would 
have made  these loans looked affordable. Ive also taken into account that Miss O herself 
declared the outgoings information and the amount being borrowed did drop down (at least 
for loans  2, 3 and 4). In short, because  Miss Os monthly outgoings  had dropped for loan 
numbers 2  5, her room to afford these loans seemed  to temporarily  improve.  So it looked 
like these were affordable. I therefore dont uphold the complaint about  loans  2  5.
However, I think the emerging pattern of repeated lending from the point of loan 6 onwards 
in this case would have looked  different and therefore required a more thorough and 
responsible approach. The overall  pattern of Sunnys lending to Miss O should have caused 
it to see, in my view,  that it shouldnt have  provided any further loans from this point 
onwards. 
This is because this was Miss Os sixth short-term loan application with Sunny in 6 months  
or so and was also taken  out whilst other  debt was still outstanding. So Sunny ought to have 
realised that Miss O wasnt merely borrowing to deal with short-term cash-flow problems; 
she was borrowing regularly, to address  shortfalls in her income  and to meet  an ongoing 
need. Miss O was having to consistently  take out high interest,  short-term  lending over a 
sustained period and the indebtedness  caused  by this type of borrowing was harmful,  in my 
view. Sunny should have seen this and ought to have realised Miss O was at risk of not 
managing to repay the loans sustainably  or getting into financial difficulties. 
Ref: DRN96470003So Im also upholding  this complaint  in respect  of loans  6 - 11. Sunny repeatedly  lent to 
Miss O in an unsustainable manner because:
 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Miss O borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost  loans
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
In order to put things  right for Miss O, Sunny should:
refund  all interest and charges Miss O paid on loans 1 and also loans 6 - 11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges on these from 
the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 10 and 11 and treat any 
payments Miss O made towards  these  loans as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Miss Os loans 10 and 11 accounts as Ive directed results in her 
effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Sunny 
should refund these  overpayments  with 8% simple  interest  calculated  on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement; 
if reworking Miss Os loans 10 and 11 accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be 
paid, then Sunny can use the total refund for the other upheld loans to offset  this. 
And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I would remind  Sunny that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable  repayment  plan 
with Miss O for the remaining capital;
any adverse information about loan 1 should  be removed from Miss Os credit file. 
And the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 -11 should be completely 
removed from Miss Os credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give Miss O a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I partly uphold Miss Os complaint. Elevate Credit  International 
Limited should put things right for Miss O as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Ref: DRN96470004Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Taken Out Repaid Amount Instalments
1. 23/08/2017 12/09/2017 £500 6
2. 26/09/2017 21/11/2017 £400 6
3. 07/10/2017 20/10/2017 £200 6
4. 24/10/2017 21/11/2017 £200 6
5. 21/11/2017 22/06/2018 £600 6
6. 21/04/2018 24/08/2018 £200 6
7. 29/05/2018 19/07/2018 £200 6
8. 09/07/2018 19/07/2018 £100 6
9. 13/07/2018 19/07/2018 £100 6
10. 22/07/2018 Outstanding £450 6
11. 26/08/2018 Outstanding £200 6
Ref: DRN9647000