K820x#14complaint
Miss H and Miss A complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them a 
mortgage.
 
background
In 2008, Halifax  recommended that Miss H and Miss A take out a mortgage. In 2018, Miss H 
says she became aware that she was still named on a mortgage  she had taken out jointly  
with an ex partner  in 2006, which was with another lender. 
Miss H says that in 2007 she signed  papers to remove her name  from the mortgage with her 
ex partner. She says that she received a lump sum, walked away and didnt give the other 
lender a forwarding address. Miss H says that she thought that, as shed signed the 
paperwork, the other lender would  remove her from the mortgage.  
In 2018, Miss H looked at her credit  file and discovered that she was still named on the 2006 
mortgage. She thought Halifax would do all the appropriate checks  in 2008 to confirm that 
she wasnt still named  on the 2006  mortgage. Miss H says that she wouldnt have committed  
to a new mortgage if she had known that she was still named  on the previous mortgage. She 
says she wasnt earning enough to afford both mortgages. 
Miss H says that shes now having to pay for legal  advice in relation  to the 2006 mortgage 
and has taken time off work because of stress. She wants compensation for the stress this 
matter has caused  her. 
Halifax initially said that this service couldnt  look at the complaint, as it had been  made  too 
late. The investigator said that we could look at is as Miss H only became aware  that she  
had cause to complain in 2018.  Halifax agreed  that we could consider the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Halifax had acted unfairly. She said it carried  out credit 
searches, which  didnt reveal the 2006 mortgage.  The investigator said that it was for Miss H 
to provide accurate information when  she applied for the mortgage in 2008. She didnt think  
that Halifax had made  a mistake. 
Miss H didnt agree with the investigator. She said Halifax failed to uncover the fact that she 
was still named on a previous mortgage.  Miss H said that she didnt know  about the previous 
mortgage, so she couldnt provide Halifax with any information about it. 
Miss H said she trusted Halifax that the 2008 mortgage was the only debt she had. Miss H 
says that she wouldnt  have taken out the 2008 mortgage if shed known she was still named 
on the 2006 mortgage. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  that Halifax  
has made a mistake or acted unfairly.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN93955932Ive seen the results  of the searches Halifax did at the time of the 2008 mortgage application. 
They dont show the 2006 mortgage. I think Halifax carried out appropriate  searches and its 
not clear to me why the 2006 mortgage  didnt  appear on those searches. 
When Miss H and Miss A applied to Halifax for a mortgage in 2008, Miss H didnt think she 
was still named on the 2006 mortgage, so she didnt tell Halifax about it. The onus was on 
Miss H to provide accurate information  to Halifax. She didnt do that here. 
Miss H says she thought  that, as shed signed  the paperwork, the other lender would remove 
her from the mortgage. I havent seen what Miss H signed in 2007  but its possible that she 
signed an application to remove her name from the mortgage. It could be that the application 
was never  submitted to the other  lender or that it refused the application. As Miss H didnt  
give the other lender a new address, it couldnt  keep  her informed about  the mortgage.  That 
isnt Halifaxs fault. 
In any event, Halifax isnt responsible for the expense  Miss H has incurred or the stress 
shes suffered in relation to sorting out the 2006 mortgage. The cost and inconvenience of 
sorting out the 2016 mortgage  lie with Miss H, not Halifax.  
Considering everything, I dont think Halifax made a mistake or treated Miss H and Miss A 
unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Miss A 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9395593