K820x#14complaint
Mr C is a joint trustee of a Company portfolio (the portfolio). It was set up by his late father  
(as sole signatory) with the investment  management  service in Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) and held in trust. He says Barclays  delayed his pursuit  to transfer  the portfolio to 
the trust after his father passed away. He also says the portfolio was liquidated in 2016, has 
been held in cash ever since and has been  inactive pending resolution of the transfer,  so 
Barclays delay has also caused  a financial loss in this respect.
background
Mr Cs father  passed away in 2014 and contact records from Barclays  show that the pursuit  
to transfer the portfolio to the control  of the trust began around  May 2015. The portfolio was 
liquidated into cash, by the provider of the investment fund held within it, around August 
2016. Mr Cs formal  complaint to Barclays, about  the delay in the process, was in May 2018 
and it provided its final response in August  that year. Its position on the complaint is that:
It has partly upheld  the complaint because it considered that it was partly at fault for 
the delay due to having no  process in place to complete the ownership transfer 
for a Company  Portfolio held partly in trust. It took around two months to resolve 
such a process. For that and for its delay in responding to the complaint it paid Mr C 
£200.
The situation remained unresolved at the time of its final response, as the transfer 
had yet to conclude. Documentation sent to Mr C  for him and the other trustees  to 
complete and return  had not been  returned and it tried,  without success, to contact 
and engage with him in this respect  on a number of occasions. Within its final 
response it reminded him of the outstanding documentation (and enclosed them)  but 
as of the time the matter was referred to this service (around the middle of 2019) they 
continued to remain  outstanding.
The matter was eventually resolved  in November 2019, the portfolio was reviewed, 
and instructions were  sought from Mr C on if and/or how to invest.  However, he 
confirmed in January  2020 that the portfolio should  remain in cash whilst he and the 
trustees considered  their options.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, she noted as follows:
The documentation  associated with the transfer was complicated by the presence, in 
the matter, of both a company and a trust. There is evidence  that forms submitted to 
Barclays had been wrongly completed, so there  were multiple submissions for this 
reason.
Liquidation of the portfolio was done by a third party,  so Barclays  cannot  be blamed 
for that.
Barclays could not also be expected  to accept incorrectly  completed documentation 
for the transfer,  so it was right to ensure the documentation was correctly completed 
and submitted before executing the transfer. Barclays should  not have to pay 
compensation for the financial loss claim arising from the portfolio being held in cash.
Mr C requested a review of this outcome. He said at no time during the delay period did 
Barclays tell him the relevant forms had been wrongly completed or tell him how they should 
correctly be completed;  and that, overall,  Barclays was unhelpful  until late 2019.  The 
Ref: DRN97872282investigator obtained a timeline of events from Barclays and shared it with Mr C. Upon 
considering the timeline, she decided to retain her original view on the matter. 
After he was sent the timeline, Mr C conceded that he had caused some  of the delay in the 
matter and that the same applied to the difficulties he had in receiving relevant documents 
back from the other trustees. However,  he maintained that whenever  Barclays  returned the 
documents to him, he was either not told why they were incorrect,  or he was sent different 
forms for the trustees  (and him) to complete. He considers that Barclays  should  have met 
him to explore  a resolution to the delays  at the time and that despite his (and the trustees) 
contributions to the delay he had hoped there could or would be a compromise basis upon 
which the trust could  have  some compensation for the portfolios  financial loss.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons  I incorporate 
those reasons (as summarised above) into this decision.
In the main,  the timeline evidence shared by Barclays shows as follows:
Mr C contacted Barclays in May 2015  to inform it about  the passing  of his father and 
to initiate the transfer process. No further  contact is recorded until January 2016.
From  January 2016 Mr C and Barclays were engaged in trying to clarify and resolve 
who needed to be party to the process  alongside  Mr C and the forms of identification 
and documentation  that would be required (and acceptable). Contact between the 
parties in this respect stopped in May 2016,  when Barclays made two unsuccessful 
attempts to chase  progress in the matter. No further  contact is recorded until 
November 2017, when contact from Mr C is noted and it is recorded that he said his 
pursuit had been temporarily given up due to the amount of paperwork involved.
Consent pack, mandate and signatory related documents were sent out, by Barclays, 
to Mr C in November  2017. The mandate appears to have been outstanding as of 
January 2018  and up to March 2018 both parties  appear to have been engaged in 
clarifying identification related issues for the company and trust featured  in the 
matter.
As stated in the background above,  Mr C complained in May 2018. From then, 
Barclays appears to have agreed to provide him with weekly  updates.  The records 
show that this happened, initially, and that during the update calls Barclays informed 
Mr C about the progress of his complaint,  answered his queries about the transfer or 
portfolio and gave  him assistance  in completing the transfer related documentation.  
However, during  the four weeks ending 20 June 2018 the timeline records  that 
Barclays could not reach Mr C each time it called  for the weekly  update arrangement,  
so on this date it left him a message summarising the outstanding document required 
from him and confirming that the weekly calls would no longer continue.
Meaningful activity then appears to have resumed in late 2018 when Barclays  sought 
to engage with the other trustee(s) as part of the transfer process. By the end of 
January 2019  Barclays appears to have had all the documentation it required.   
In March 2019 Barclays wrote to Mr C to apologise for the delay on its part at the 
time; and during  contact with him in May that year it learnt that he had missed 
communication from Barclays in March  and April because he had been away  from 
Ref: DRN97872283home; also in May, Barclays  confirmed  it had completed putting  in place the process  
for the transfer  but that the submitted documentation  was still being checked.
Eventually, in November 2019, the transfer  was completed; and in January 2020 it is 
recorded that Mr C instructed retention of the portfolio in cash  whilst he and the 
trustees considered  their options.
It is reasonably clear that Barclays part of the responsibility for the delay happened mainly  in 
2019  broadly speaking,  between February and October 2019. Prior to that, it is noteworthy 
that Mr C did not initiate the transfer pursuit  until the year after his father passed away 
(2015); that having done so, he appears  to have made no further  contact with Barclays until 
the following  year (2016); that both parties,  up to May 2016,  appear to have been reasonably 
engaged in clarifying the complexities in the transfer  matter; that after May 2016 and until 
towards the end of 2017 it is Mr C who broke  contact with Barclays and appears  to have 
caused the stall in progress at the time;  and that his complaint in May 2018 then appears to 
have concentrated  all minds on progressing the matter further. 
I can understand Mr Cs view that a compromise should exist,  between both sides, in terms 
of liability for the overall delay. Barclays contribution was arguably not insignificant. 
However, I consider  that Barclays has tried to recognise that compromise by the £200 
payment it has already  paid to him. I regard that as fair and I am not persuaded that 
compensation should go beyond that  which is what  Mr Cs present claim is for. 
First, I consider the contributions from him and, it appears,  the other trustees to the overall  
delay too notable to ignore, to the extent that they hinder any reasonable attempt to find that 
Barclays should be more  responsible than the value of £200  or should be responsible  for 
the alleged financial  loss. 
The second  reason is the somewhat  speculative nature of the claim for financial loss. I have 
not seen evidence which, on balance, establishes that there  was a particular urgency during 
the delays to put the portfolios cash into investment or into a position of making a form of 
earning. The gaps  in contact from Mr C would suggest otherwise and the fact that the 
portfolio remained  unaltered  in January 2020  despite his (and the trustees) ability to control 
and invest it at the time does the same. Furthermore, there  appears to be no firm 
quantification of the alleged financial loss or a basis upon which to conclude,  on balance,  
that the portfolio has been denied  (by Barclays actions or inactions) an opportunity to 
generate a specific gain  or one reflected in a relevant benchmark.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above  I am not persuaded by Mr Cs claim for 
the alleged financial  loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 January 2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9787228