K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  hasnt accepted  his home  insurance claim for 
damage to his roof and bedroom  ceiling. 
background
Following some heavy rainfall at the end of August 2018 Mr B discovered  that part of his 
bedroom ceiling had collapsed, damaging the bed and carpet  in the process. Mr B initially 
thought that a pipe in his loft had burst as hed switched his central  heating  on for the first 
time for a while the previous day. He contacted  his insurance broker  who reported  to Ageas 
that Mr B wanted to claim under his home  insurance  policy  for the damage caused. Ageas  
asked Mr B to confirm the cause of damage  so he called out a plumber  in the first instance.  
Three days later the broker called Ageas again to report  that thered  been no water  leak after 
all rather there was wear and tear to the felt on the roof which  Mr B had now had repaired.  
The broker  told Ageas  that Mr B wanted  to claim for the internal damage and water getting in 
through the roof. Ageas told the broker that as thered been no storm conditions at the time 
the damage occurred  it couldnt cover the claim for internal  damage. 
Mr B complained to Ageas about its decision to decline  his claim. Ageas looked into his 
complaint and said that the only peril (insured  event)  that might cover  the damage was 
storm. But it said itd checked  the weather records and there was no record of storm 
conditions around  the time the damage  happened. Ageas maintained its decision to decline 
Mr Bs claim  both for the damage to the roof and internally.  
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to Ageas, Mr B complained  to this service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He said that 
Ageas hadnt  provided any evidence to prove that the damage to the roof was the result of 
wear and tear. He also said Mr B didnt have a flat roof  as claimed by Ageas. So he 
thought Ageas hadnt properly assessed Mr Bs claim. He said that if Ageas was treating the 
claim as an accidental damage claim then it hadnt  shown why the claim should be declined  
so he upheld the complaint and told Ageas to reassess it.
Ageas disagreed with our investigators  findings. It said any reference itd made  to Mr B 
having a flat roof was a clerical error.  It said the broker  had reported  that the felt on the roof 
had worn and after checking the weather  conditions the claim was declined  because thered 
been no storm. It asked  for the complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.    
I issued a provisional decision on this case in May 2019. I made  the following provisional 
findings: 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a house  sustains is covered by a home insurance policy.  Only damage 
caused by those perils   or insured events  listed  in the policy are covered. These include 
fire, theft,  storm, escape  of water etc. It is the policyholders responsibility to show  that they 
have a valid claim. If a policyholder can do so then the insurer  must  pay the claim unless its 
Ref: DRN92298892able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. Unfortunately for Mr B, the damage  
his home  has sustained wasnt caused by one of the perils listed  in the policy.  That means 
he hasnt been  able to show that his claim is one thats covered by the policy.  
Initially Mr B thought the damage might  be the result of a burst  pipe. But a plumber told him 
it wasnt. So Mr B had a roofer look at the roof who reported that there was wear  and tear to 
the felt on the roof which he repaired. As Ageas was no longer looking at a potential  escape 
of water claim it considered whether there were any other perils that might cover the 
damage. The only possible one was the storm peril. 
But in order for the storm peril to cover the damage  it must  first be shown that theres been a 
storm around the time the damage occurred. Unfortunately the weather records dont show  
that there  had been. If theres  no storm then storm cant have caused the damage. In the 
absence of the damage being caused  by any of the perils  listed in the policy, Ageas isnt 
required to pay the claim.  This being  the case, Ageas had no need  to investigate the 
circumstances any further. I dont think thats  unreasonable. 
Ive thought about whether the additional accidental damage cover Mr B had under the 
policy couldve covered  the internal damage  but I dont think  it could. Thats  because  
accidental damage  thats the result of rainwater  getting in because  of wear and tear is 
specifically excluded from cover. 
Im satisfied that Ageas reference to Mr B having a flat roof was a clerical  error. The claim 
notes record what Ageas was told by the broker and I can see he didnt mention that Mr B 
had a flat roof. I can also see that Ageas decision not to accept the claim wasnt  in any way 
based on the (incorrect)  fact Mr B had a flat roof. Ageas declined Mr Bs claim for damage  to 
the roof because  there was no single  identifiable storm which could  be said to have caused 
it. It told the broker that if thered been a storm then it wouldve considered the internal  
damage aspect of the claim but without it, it wouldnt. 
On balance and for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think Ageas has unreasonably 
declined Mr Bs claim. I dont intend  to require it to reconsider the claim.
Mr B replied  to my provisional decision and said he understood the reasons I made it and 
had nothing further to add. Ageas also said it had nothing further  to add. 
The complaint was referred  back to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B says he accepts  the reasons for my provisional findings and as Ageas made no 
further comments, the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision remains unchanged. 
For the reasons  I gave  previously, Im satisfied that this is a complaint I cant reasonably  
uphold. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN92298893Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9229889