K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited mishandled his claim on a home  
emergency insurance policy.
background 
Mr T lives in the United Kingdom. His father is over 65 years  old and has a heart condition. 
So he should be kept warm. As he usually  lives outside the UK (and outside the European 
Union) Mr Ts father  doesnt get free medical treatment on the National Health Service. 
Mr T had a British Gas policy that said it would cover replacement  of his boiler  if it was under 
seven years old and British Gas couldnt  repair it. 
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
engineers, call-handlers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
Mr T had his father staying with him when  British Gas said his central heating boiler was 
unsafe. 
Mr T made a claim on the policy. But British  Gas wouldnt provide a new boiler  free of 
charge. So Mr T paid for a new boiler.
At around that time, Mr Ts father  was admitted to hospital  and incurred NHS medical costs  
of £5,625.00.
In its final response letter,  British Gas said it was refunding £2,014.25 and making a goodwill 
payment of £50.00.
Mr T brought  his complaint to us. He said British Gas should reimburse his fathers medical  
costs.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. The investigator 
thought that Mr T was always  entitled to a free boiler stated in the terms and conditions of 
his policy. She didnt think that there  was a concrete link between  Mr Ts home being without 
heat and his fathers  heart condition getting worse. 
The investigator recommended  that British Gas should:
1.pay Mr T £250.00 in compensation; and
2.add 8% interest on the refund for the replacement  boiler,  from the time he paid for 
the boiler to the time when he was refunded.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to British  Gas on 13 February  2019. I summarise my findings:
Ref: DRN93300462I didnt think I would  have  the legal power  to direct  British  Gas to pay compensation 
for Mr Ts fathers  medical bills, even if I found  evidence that it had caused  his 
admission to hospital  which I didnt.
But British  Gas shouldve  agreed to pay for the new boiler. Its refusal to do so caused 
Mr T some worries about money and his fathers health.
British Gas acknowledged Mr Ts complaint. But it didnt provide a final response 
letter until 9 December  2017. I found it only right and proper  that it refunded the 
£2,014.25. I didnt think Mr T should ever have had to pay it. 
The final response  letter said Mr T would  receive  payment  within fourteen  days  that 
is by about 23 December 2017.  So he was out of pocket for over three months. So I 
found it fair and reasonable  to order British Gas to pay him interest at our usual rate.
The final response  letter also said that British Gas was sending Mr T an extra £50.00.  
But I didnt think that was enough compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
British Gas had caused  Mr T by declining to provide a new boiler under the policy  
and by the delay in dealing with his complaint. I thought that  in addition to worries  
about money and his fathers health  this made Mr T feel ignored. 
I found £200.00 fair and reasonable compensation for such distress and 
inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr T or from British Gas, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct  British Gas Insurance  
Limited to:
1.pay Mr T simple  interest at a yearly rate of 8% on £2,014.25 from 13 September  
2017 to 23 December 2017.  If British  Gas considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr T how 
much its taken  off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
2.pay Mr T £200.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
Mr T disagrees with the provisional decision.  He says, in summary,  that:
He was directly responsible for the care of his father.  Mr T paid £3,500.00 on 20 
September 2017 and £2,125.00  on 15 December 2017.  
He stopped operating the boiler from 29 August 2017.
From  that date British  Gas shouldve started  the process of replacement  but didnt.
Nobody at British Gas asked the age of the boiler.
Nobody at its call centres knew about  the provisions of the policy.
British Gas was completely negligent in carrying out their obligations under the 
contract.
British Gas failed  to prepare  the organisation and put processes in place to deal with 
the claims from customers to carry out its obligations. Therefore, it is not a delay 
caused by circumstances but an institutional  failure to prepare  to meet  obligations 
under the contract.
Ref: DRN93300463Its staff tried to continuously mislead  the customer that he was not entitled to the free 
boiler.
The financial loss is clear.
The compensation for stress and inconvenience is not just. It simply does not take 
away the incentive to British Gas to continue to not fulfil its obligations under the 
contract and mislead customers about their rights under  the contract.  
The statement that the boiler was in operation is incorrect. Mr T had to call another 
engineer for a visit on 7 September 2017.
Mr T brought to the attention of the engineer  on the 29 August 2017 that he was 
entitled to a new boiler which  he refused. He then switched off the boiler  on that day. 
When it was started  again, on 7 September, the boiler was heating and giving hot 
water but was deemed dangerous  by this other engineer and cut off.
Mr T had to live without the boiler with his family for a period of 14 days  (from 29 
August 2017 to 11 September  2017. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
We dont assess compensation at a level to punish  or deter poor service. Rather we assess  
compensation for financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  by which the Financial Ombudsman  Service is bound, we can only award 
compensation for financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience suffered by a policyholder 
or person with the benefit of a policy. 
Mr T was the policyholder. And his father  didnt usually live with him. So I cant say that the 
policy was for the benefit of Mr Ts father.
Ive now seen evidence  that Mr T paid his fathers  medical bills. But I havent seen evidence 
that Mr T was under a legal obligation  to do so.
So I dont  think I would  have the legal power to direct British Gas to pay compensation for Mr 
Ts fathers medical bills, even if I found  evidence that it had caused his admission to 
hospital.
From a British Gas notice,  I see that it was 29 August 2017 when an engineer  said the boiler 
was at risk because of corrosion. I think the notice is signed by Mr Ts father. It records  that 
he declined  advice to turn off the boiler.  So I think it was still in operation.
A British Gas engineer visited on 7 September 2017. And the British Gas file contains Mr Ts 
emailed complaint that day. His email includes the following:
Worthwhile noting that when the engineer  came  into the property, the boiler was 
working perfectly with both hot water  and heating.  But, the engineer  (in his 
professional opinion)  noted that the boiler  was not safe and disconnected it.
So I find that Mr T had been  using the boiler  as normal  between 29 August and 7 September  
2017. 
Ref: DRN93300464The British  Gas file contains a note from the engineer recording that a SM (which  I think 
means Service Manager)  had told him Mr T didnt  qualify for a new boiler. I think that note 
and Mr Ts email show that he had asked  for a new boiler under the policy  but British Gas 
refused to give him one.
By 8 September 2017 British Gas (or rather an associated company) had quoted Mr T for a 
new boiler. He emailed to accept the quote,  under  protest, that day. 
From a hospital discharge letter, I see that Mr Ts father was admitted on 16 September and 
discharged on 19 September 2017.  Doctors  recorded a four day history  of shortness of 
breath and chest pain  So I think his heart condition had worsened about four days  before 
16 September, that is on about 12 September 2017.  Doctors gave a diagnosis  of pulmonary 
oedema and a new diagnosis of AF (Arterial Fibrillation). 
Ive seen an NHS invoice  for hospital  charges of £5,625.00 for Mr Ts father.
British Gas has told us that it (or rather the associated  company)  installed the boiler on 11 
September. Mr T has said it was on 13 September  2017. I still havent seen the invoice  but 
I think Mr T paid £2,014.25.
Whether the new boiler was installed on 11 or 13 September,  it was installed a few days  
after the engineers visit on 7 September  and a few days before Mr Ts father was admitted 
to hospital. So I dont think British Gas caused  much if any avoidable interruption  of central 
heating and hot water. 
And I have  explained above the reasons why I dont  think I would have the legal power  to 
direct British Gas to pay compensation for Mr Ts fathers medical bills, even if I found 
evidence that it had caused  his admission to hospital  which  I dont.
But British  Gas shouldve  agreed to pay for the new boiler. Its refusal to do so caused Mr T 
some worries about money and his fathers  health.
British Gas acknowledged Mr Ts complaint. But it didnt provide a final response letter until 9 
December 2017.  I find it only right and proper that it refunded the £2,014.25. I dont think Mr 
T should  ever have  had to pay it. 
The final response  letter said Mr T would  receive  payment  within fourteen  days  that is by 
about 23 December  2017. So he was out of pocket for over three months.  So I find it fair and 
reasonable to order British Gas to pay him interest  at our usual rate.
The final response  letter also said that British Gas was sending Mr T an extra £50.00.  But I 
dont think that was enough  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  British Gas 
had caused Mr T by declining to provide  a new boiler under  the policy  and by the delay in 
dealing with his complaint. I think  that  in addition to worries about money and his fathers 
health  this made Mr T feel ignored. 
I find £200.00 fair and reasonable  compensation for such distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Ref: DRN933004651.pay Mr T simple  interest at a yearly rate of 8% on £2,014.25 from 13 September  
2017 to 23 December 2017.  If British  Gas considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr T 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate; and
2.pay Mr T £200.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9330046