K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  sold her travel  insurance which didnt  
meet her needs.
Mrs Hs complaint concerns the cancellation  of a cruise, which was booked  and paid for by 
both Mrs H and her husband Mr H. Mrs H is an executor  of Mr Hs estate, so this decision is 
addressed to Mrs H in her own capacity  and also as executor of Mr Hs estate.  
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision, which forms part of 
this final decision.  In my provisional decision I said that I intended to uphold this complaint 
and I include an extract from that decision  here:
In April 2015 Mrs H and her husband Mr H booked a 108-day round the world cruise, due 
to depart in early  January  2017. 
Mr and Mrs H already  had a packaged  account  with Nationwide, which gave them  
European travel insurance.  On 11 November 2016  they upgraded the account to one which 
gave them worldwide  travel insurance. 
In December 2016 Mr H was sadly diagnosed with lung cancer, and he was told hed need  
chemotherapy. On 23 December 2016 (the day after the diagnosis) Mrs H told Nationwide  
theyd need to cancel the trip and, through Nationwide, she told the insurer  about  the claim.  
Only a few days later Mr H unfortunately suffered a stroke.  The full cancellation cost for the 
cruise was over £17,000  as theyd cancelled so close to the departure date. 
The insurer  paid the claim but only in part. It said the policy covered them  only for trips up to 
31 days. So the insurer paid the claim proportionately, by dividing the total cost by 108 days 
and then paying them for only 31 days of the trip. After deducting the two policy  excesses it 
paid them just under  £5,300. Sadly Mr H passed away  last year. 
Through her solicitor Mrs H complained to Nationwide that it hadnt explained the policy 
wouldnt be suitable for their cruise,  as it covered trips of up to 31 days only. She explained 
shes profoundly  deaf, but can lip read, but the branch manager hadnt explained the 
restriction for 31 day trips. She asked Nationwide to pay the balance of the claim, up to the 
total policy limit of £10,000 (£5,000 per person).
Nationwide said it had explained the key benefits and restrictions  to Mrs H, when it upgraded 
the current account, and the information  had been  given on a non-advised basis.  It didnt  
accept it had mis-sold the account. Mrs H came to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. She accepted  it was likely Mrs H 
had told Nationwide  about the length of the cruise during the meeting with Nationwide to 
upgrade the account. So she said it should  pay the balance of the claim up to the policy  limit 
of £10,000. Nationwide didnt agree so the complaint was referred to me for review.
I asked our adjudicator  to make further enquiries  of Mrs H, Nationwide and the insurer. 
Weve shared the material additional  evidence with Mrs H via her solicitor. 
Ref: DRN94561772my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Im very sorry to hear that Mrs H has recently  lost her father, which follows  the loss of her 
husband last year. 
Theres no dispute that the travel  insurance  policy covers trips only up to 31 days, unless the 
consumer has bought a trip extension upgrade. The key issue  is whether Nationwide clearly 
brought the policys  key benefits  and restrictions  to Mr and Mrs Hs attention.
Nationwide says that it was selling the packaged  bank account, not travel  insurance, and 
that this was on a non-advised  basis. But even if it was a non-advised sale of a packaged 
bank account  one of the key benefits of the account was the travel  insurance. And 
Nationwide had to make sure that it provided  Mrs H with information  that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so she could  make  an informed decision about the cover being offered to her. 
This includes highlighting the significant restrictions in the cover.  Indeed the requirement to 
give sufficient information for the consumer to make  their own choice is set out in 
Nationwides internal procedures.
Nationwide says it did highlight the key benefits and exclusions, including that the cover is 
for trips of up to 31 days. But Mrs H says that Nationwide  failed  to do this, even though  she 
and Mr H had told it they were going  on a long round the world cruise  early in 2017. 
I think the overall evidence about  what was said during the interview isnt entirely 
satisfactory. The managers initial statement said that Relating to the event of when  I spoke 
to Mrs H, I can recall  that she came to see me in an appointed  interview to do a change  of 
account to one that offered her more back.  She displayed a high interest in the Flex Plus and 
we therefore proceeded  to speak more  about  this product. At this stage, I will have 
highlighted the key features and benefits  of the account. 
But the evidence  Ive since seen suggests  to me that both Mr and Mrs H were at the 
meeting. I say this because she says Mr H told him all about the cruise. And also Mr H 
signed the application on the same date as their meeting. Nationwides manager  doesnt 
seem to recall Mrs H, even though shes profoundly  deaf and needs to lip read, and he didnt 
mention Mr H at all. 
We did ask Nationwide  to go back to the manager for his specific recollections about  Mrs H 
and her additional needs. But as this was some 18 months  after the interview,  the manager 
(perhaps unsurprisingly) couldnt then remember the interview at all. 
So it seems  to me that Nationwides  managers evidence is generic rather  than specific  to 
Mrs Hs account. Nationwide has provided evidence of the procedure its manager would 
have to follow in upgrading the account. This includes  explaining the key features and 
benefits of the different types of insurance cover with the bank account. The manager says 
that he would have followed the stated  procedures  which includes that cover is for trips of 
up to 31 days - and his manager said that any observed interviews have been compliant with 
its process. Nationwide says that each section requires the consumer to confirm theyve 
understood before the manager can click on to the next screen. He says he would have put 
the key information in front of the consumer while explaining it. 
Ref: DRN94561773Mrs H has also said that the manager was talking  through  the interview like a robot, which 
implies to me that he was giving her and Mr H some  standard  information about  the account.  
Ive also noted  that Mrs H has said that the meeting with Nationwides  manager was 
arranged shortly after she and Mr H booked  the cruise. But that doesnt seem  to be right.  
The cruise  was booked  in April 2015  to coincide with Mr Hs retirement the following month. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt upgrade their insurance to include  worldwide  travel  until November 2016  
 just under  two months before their holiday.  Theyd  had to pay the full balance  of the cruise 
in August 2016, so its possible that was what she was thinking about. 
Mrs Hs solicitor has explained  that the delay  in changing the cover was because  Mrs H 
didnt expect any issues with arranging the insurance, and they had a lifelong  loyalty  to 
Nationwide. I see the point, but it doesnt  entirely explain the discrepancy in the evidence  
Mrs H had earlier given about the timing of the meeting.  That said, I can see Mr and Mrs H 
would also have been excited about  such a big trip of a lifetime they were due to take a 
couple of months  later.  So I do think its more likely than not, on balance,  theyd  have talked 
about it. Mrs H has been consistent in her evidence about this. I also think  its likely, on 
balance, that the worldwide  travel  insurance  was the main  reason for the upgrade.  
I say this as Mr and Mrs H already  had travel insurance with Nationwide,  through their 
existing Flex account. But when they asked if their card would cover them they were told it 
was European  cover only. Ive asked Nationwide  about the cover they held under their 
previous Flex account and thats correct. Theyd need worldwide cover for the cruise  they 
were taking. So I think it is likely they went to Nationwide to get the worldwide cover. 
Having carefully considered all the evidence I think its likely Mr and Mrs H did want  cover  for 
their extended cruise. So Im not persuaded, on balance, that the manager did make it 
sufficiently clear that the cover was restricted to 31 days. Had he done so I think its more 
likely than not, again on balance, that theyd have paid for the extended cover. So, like our 
adjudicator, I intend to uphold this complaint. 
Nationwide has pointed  out that Mrs H knew that cover was for £5,000  per person. But Ive 
seen the insurers  notes of the claim,  and I see that the claim was raised  with the insurer  by 
Nationwide, on Mrs Hs behalf. The insurer explained the limit hadnt  been applied because  
the proportionate settlement was less than policy limit of £5,000 per person. I dont think 
Mrs H was aware of the limit before she made  the claim. Equally shes consistently  asked 
Nationwide to pay the claim up to the policy limit, to resolve her complaint. 
Nationwide has told us the additional  premium  that would have been applied  had Mr and 
Mrs H applied for an extended trip upgrade  would  have been £409.16. But it says this 
premium doesnt include  any medical information that might have affected the premium. It 
also questioned  the proximity of the upgrade  to Mr Hs diagnosis.
I cant see the insurer has suggested  there  was any failure by Mr and Mrs H to disclose 
medical information at the point of the upgrade. It paid the claim proportionately because  
theyd not paid for extra premium to extend the trip duration. Also,  Nationwides  comment  
about the medical information was made when it was under the mistaken impression (due to 
an error by Mrs Hs solicitor) that Mrs H had gone  into the branch about Mr Hs diagnosis on 
23 November  so less than two weeks after the upgrade. In fact, she didnt go in to the 
branch until 23 December, and Ive not seen any medical evidence  to suggest they knew 
about the possibility of a cancer diagnosis earlier than that. 
Ref: DRN94561774If Mr and Mrs H had needed to go through medical screening then I also think  its likely 
theyd have done this at the time they upgraded the cover to worldwide cover,  had 
Nationwide followed its eligibility questions.  
So to resolve this complaint I think a fair outcome is for Nationwide  to pay Mrs H the balance 
of the claim, subject  to the policy limit. This means  it must  pay up to the policy  limit of 
£10,000, less the amount paid by the insurer of £5,295.86, less the additional premium 
theyd have paid of £409.16. In line with our usual approach it must add interest to the 
resulting payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs H responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision and had no further  points 
to add. 
Nationwide didnt accept  my provisional  decision.  It made a number  of points:
Theres no dispute that the insurance policy covers trips up to a maximum of 
31 days, unless  the extension upgrade is purchased.  This is clearly stated on pages  
5, 8, 9 and 15 of the policy booklet  that Mr and Mrs H were  given  at the time the 
account was opened. It was also clearly  stated on pages 5, 15 and 16 of the FlexPlus  
leaflet that they would have received at that time. Also, the restriction  would have 
been called  out during the sales  process, as one of the main  exclusions and 
limitations of the travel  insurance.  
Its personal bankers  are trained to follow the sales process and are required to 
complete the eligibility and exclusions illustrator. They cant  proceed if the customer 
doesnt declare  they are eligible to proceed or not. And at this point the personal 
banker reads out the key features and main exclusions of the policy. 
It has asked me to read a statement from its quality supervisor confirming that the 
personal banking  manager who saw Mrs H has never been of any concern and has 
shown the utmost  care and diligence to ensure  members obtain a fair outcome 
through adhering to procedures and delivering an exceptional service.  Hes been 
observed on packaged accounts (such  as the FlexPlus)  and no intervention has been 
required to prevent a poor outcome. So theyve no reason to believe he didnt  follow 
the script  on this occasion. 
Its website also signposts  the key exclusions and limitations  including the one for 
trips of longer  than 31 days.
It makes  every  effort to give its customers clear information and it cant  be held 
responsible if they didnt read all the information given to them. 
If Mr and Mrs Hs sole reason for taking out the FlexPlus account was for travel 
insurance then the following is unclear:
oWhy they waited  six months  to upgrade  their account in November 2016, 
which is extremely risky had anything  happened  in this period, and suggests 
Mr and Mrs H werent  as vigilant as she now claims,  with the benefit of 
hindsight?
Ref: DRN94561775oWhy they didnt  simply take out standalone travel  insurance after it was 
booked? 
oEven if they mentioned the cruise  because they were  excited  that doesnt 
mean they went into granular detail about  it, such as the duration.  Its more 
likely theyd have mentioned where  they were going.
oIf we were to accept the account was opened solely for travel insurance then 
it would  have expected them to pay extra attention to the content of the 
information they provided to them about  the travel insurance. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still uphold  this 
complaint for the reasons given in my provisional  decision and below.
Ive carefully thought  about all the points  raised  by Nationwide and Ive read its quality 
supervisors statement. 
Mrs H is adamant that she and Mr H gave  Nationwide details about their cruise, including  its 
duration. Nationwide is equally adamant that its sales  procedure was such  that it would have  
pointed out the key exclusions  including  the 31 day trip limit. 
Ive weighed all the evidence to decide,  on the balance of probabilities,  whether I think  its 
more likely than not that Nationwide gave  Mr and Mrs H enough information about  the travel  
insurance under their FlexPlus account  to enable  them to make an informed decision about 
whether the cover was suitable for them.
I fully appreciate Nationwide says its personal banking manager  would have  followed  its 
detailed sales process, including pointing out the key exclusions.  Nationwide has explained  
in some detail why it thinks it is unlikely that process wasnt  followed in this case. 
Ive already discussed that there are some discrepancies in the personal banking managers 
recollections. For example, he recalled  meeting  with Mrs H but the evidence  is that he met 
with both Mr and Mrs H. He doesnt recall her disability  at all. 
Also, I accept there  were discrepancies in Mrs Hs evidence about  when the meeting took 
place.
But we know  that the meeting with Nationwide took place less than two months before the 
extended cruise that was to be a trip of a lifetime  for Mr and Mrs H. I dont think its likely,  on 
balance, that Mr and Mrs H would  have failed to mention  both where they were going and for 
how long they would  be away. And I think its likely theyd gone  to Nationwide because  they 
realised their existing cover with the Flex account wouldnt be enough  for their trip, as it gave 
them only European  and not worldwide cover. 
I appreciate that Nationwide says that travel  insurance (possibly standalone cover)  should 
be arranged at the time of booking the trip. But it is the expert here and in my experience  its 
not unusual for consumers to arrange cover  at a later stage; for example, because  they 
believe they are arranging insurance to cover the trip itself rather  than for cancellation cover. 
Also, Mr and Mrs H booked their trip around 21 months before the departure date. 
Ref: DRN94561776I see Nationwides point  that if travel insurance was important to them  Mr and Mrs H would 
pay extra  attention to it. But its also possible that in a meeting when Nationwide says it 
would have gone through all the benefits  of the packaged  account that some information 
was missed. And it was for Nationwide to make sure it had given them enough information to 
make an informed decision. So while information  in the policy booklet and website might 
explain about the 31 day limit, wed expect this to be drawn  to their attention at the time of 
sale. 
I accept Nationwides  point about  training and supervision, but in this specific case Im 
persuaded by Mrs Hs version  of events. I think its unlikely, on balance, that Mr and Mrs H 
would have not mentioned the details of their cruise, including  its duration of over three 
months. I think  if the restriction in cover  had been  explained fully then its likely,  again  on 
balance, that theyd have paid the additional  premium to extend the cover. 
So for the reasons Ive explained  here and as set out more fully in my provisional decision 
I uphold this complaint.  The fair outcome is for Nationwide to settle  the balance  of the claim, 
less the additional premium, as set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in here and in my provisional decision  I uphold this complaint. 
I order Nationwide Building Society to pay to Mrs H on her own behalf and as executor of the 
estate of Mr H, the balance of the claim,  subject  to the policy limit of £10,000. This means it 
must pay the claim up to £10,000, less the amount paid by the insurer  of £5,295.86, less the 
additional premium  theyd have paid of £409.16. Nationwide must  add interest* to the 
resulting payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H on her own 
behalf and in her capacity  as executor of the estate  of Mr H to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 February  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Nationwide  Building Society considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs H how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs H a certificate  showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9456177