K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold by Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS) alongside a loan that was taken  out by Mr H and his late wife Mrs H.
background
In 2000 Mr H and Mrs H took out a loan with BoS and at the same time were sold a PPI 
policy to cover the repayments if Mr H was unable to work because  of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy was paid for a monthly  premium.
Mr H and Mrs H complained the PPI was mis-sold.  BoS said it didnt agree the policy had 
been mis-sold so Mr H and Mrs H brought the complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr H and Mrs H then asked 
for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Sadly Mrs H is now deceased but had an interest  in the policy  as she was jointly responsible 
for the loan. So this complaint is brought in both their names. However  as only Mr H was the 
one covered by the policy it is his circumstances that are the most relevant so in this 
decision I shall in the main refer to Mr H as he is effectively now bringing the complaint on 
behalf of them both.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and I shall explain why.
BoS has provided a copy of the loan and PPI application form and says this would have 
been completed in branch and the policy would have been recommended  to Mr H.
I can see from the form that was completed that Mr H and Mrs H had to say whether they 
wanted the PPI. So I think its likely that BoS made it clear that the PPI was optional.  
As BoS recommended that Mr H should take out the cover  it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on the information  hes provided  of his circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example, Ive not seen  anything to suggest  he would have been 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.
I note Mr H says due to his good employment benefits he didnt have a need for the PPI. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any work benefits he would have received, so 
allowing that income from his work benefits  to pay for other household expenses.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think its likely he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover at the time. And as Ive said he wasnt caught by any restrictions  of the policy.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. It 
Ref: DRN94884572also seems that the policy was affordable  and the monthly premium amount  was stated on 
the application form.
It follows that I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Im not upholding this complaint.
Ive also considered whether BoS needs  to pay back any of the costs it may have got for a 
high level of commission and profit  share. However, the rules introduced by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  about this only cover  loans taken out on or after 6 April 2007 or if taken 
out before  this date if they were  still running  on 6 April 2008.
As Mr and Mrs Hs loan started in December  2000  and ended  in October 2005 it isnt caught  
by these provisions relating to the refunds of commission. So BoS doesnt have to pay back  
anything in relation to this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out I dont  think the PPI policy was mis-sold so Bank of Scotland  plc 
does not have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf  of 
himself and the late Mrs H, to accept or reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9488457