K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about an early settlement value  he received from Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited trading  as Satsuma. He says that it was not calculated correctly. He thinks that he 
repaid more interest than the contract  said he would. Mr P would like this interest  refunded. 
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Satsuma provided  to Mr P on 9 August 2018. 
Mr P borrowed £850 and it was due to be repaid in six monthly  instalments of £268. 
Mr P requested to settle his loan on 5 September 2018. To this Satsuma said this he would 
need to repay £1143.07. Mr P paid this on 6 September 2018 and the loan was settled. 
Satsuma has looked at Mr Ps complaint and didnt  uphold it. It said that the early settlement 
value was calculated  correctly. 
Mr P has said that he thinks this isnt the case. He says that the contract shows that the 
monthly interest is £128.83. He had the loan for around a month, and he accepts that 
Satsuma can add a further month onto this. This give a total interest he feels he shouldve  
paid of £256.66. But, as above, he paid more than this when he settled the loan
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint, He said that the method Mr P has used to 
calculate how much  interest he would  pay only applies to settlement within  the first 14 days  
(right of withdrawal).  After this time a standard formula is applied which the business had 
used correctly (early settlement). 
The credit agreement didnt provide  full information about how an early  settlement would be 
calculated. Our adjudicator thought  that the contract shouldve had more  detail about this. 
But he also thought that Mr P would still have proceeded  with the loan if he had been 
provided with this information. And so he didnt  think the lack of information was a reason to 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, for the same  reasons he made his complaint,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As our adjudicator explained Mr P was able to withdraw from the loan within  14 days.  He 
would then repay the amount borrowed plus the daily interest chargeable of £3.91. This is 
what Mr P seems  to have based his calculations on in respect of what he thinks  he shouldve 
had to pay. 
But Mr P didnt inform Satsuma of that he wanted  to withdraw from the loan within 14 days  
and so the right of withdrawal conditions dont apply. Mr P asked  to repay the loan around a 
month after it started.  And so the early repayment  terms  applied. When  this happens the 
Ref: DRN95265182business most provide a settlement quote using an industry standard formula. As far as I can 
see it did this. 
Again, as our adjudicator said, the full formula for calculation of the surrender is not 
contained on the contract. But the contract does contain the following information about 
settling the loan early: 
You have  the right you should first give us notice. When  you notify us that you want  to settle 
your Satsuma Loan early, we will give you a settlement  quote  so you know how much you 
need to pay in total. This will be valid for 28 days.  The amount you need to pay to settle your 
account will include interest calculated  to cover this 28 day period in which  the quote is valid.  
This amount is payable  even where  you settle  the loan immediately. This is in accordance  
with the provisions of the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations  2004
This gives an indication  about the settlement terms. And Ive not seen any persuasive 
evidence that Mr P wouldnt have proceeded with the policy, or tried to cancel it within 
14 days, if he had been given further  information about this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9526518