K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays  Partner  
Finance (BPF) were  wrong to report a default to his credit file and that they told him theyd  
remove it but didnt.
background
Mr T took receipt  of a used car in March 2016.  He financed the deal through  a conditional 
sale agreement with BPF. The agreement set out that there would be an initial  payment of 
£484.98 followed by 46 further payments of £385.98  and a final balloon  payment of £16,199 
if Mr T wanted  to take ownership of the car.
The account  fell into arrears and eventually In November  2018 BPF defaulted it. At this point 
the account had been in arrears for 18 months.
Mr T came to an arrangement with BPFs  solicitors  to voluntarily terminate the contract and 
they wrongly told him this would mean the default was removed  from his credit file. It hasnt 
been and Mr T says that BPF should stick to their promise  and remove  it and he also says 
the account wasnt in arrears  anyway and that he didnt receive the default notice or the 
letter terminating his agreement.
BPF accepted that Mr T had been given the wrong  information about the default being 
removed but they insisted  the account  was in arrears and that Mr T was in breach of his 
contract with them and they were therefore entitled to default  the account.
So Mr T referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided her opinion.  She 
reviewed Mr Ts statement of account and noted hed been in arrears for 18 months  prior to 
the default being issued.  She understood that Mr T disputed the revised monthly instalments 
that he agreed to pay in August 2018 when he agreed a payment plan with BPF.  But she 
didnt think this dispute was important as she noted  that payments still didnt bring the 
account up to date. So she thought BPF were  within their rights to default the account. She 
received a copy of the default  letter from BPF and noted it was correctly addressed. So she 
thought it was most likely  it had been  sent to Mr T. She understood that Mr T had explained  
it took several days for payments  to reach  his account but she thought it was his 
responsibility to ensure  the payments were received on time.  Overall, she thought the default 
notice had been fairly applied.
She understood that BPFs solicitors had wrongly  advised Mr T that the default wouldnt be 
recorded. But she explained that it wouldnt be right to tell BPF to remove the default  
because Mr T had been given incorrect information.  Instead she thought BPF should 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused  and, in the circumstances, she 
thought it would be fair for BPF to pay him £100.
Mr T didnt  agree with the investigators opinion and he therefore asked for a final decision to 
be made by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN93106682I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr T so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
was the account in default?
Ive reviewed the account history and can see that the account had been in arrears since  
May 2017. 
The terms of Mr Ts credit  agreement explained the consequences of missed  payments. It 
said if you fail to make  any repayments  it may have serious  consequences   you may have 
to pay what you owe early  Your credit  score may be affectedwe  may repossess  the 
vehicle
Mr T says he made the payments and his account  should have been  reported as up to date. 
But Im not persuaded the payments were  made  and I think BPFs reporting  of the account is 
most likely to be accurate.  I can see that Mr T has provided a snap  shot of a statement 
showing a payment made on 4 October 2016 and his usual payment on 28 of that month. He 
says the payment made on 4 October  2016  should have been attributed to his September  
payment but wasnt and this is the route of the misunderstanding about  arrears.
Our investigator asked  Mr T for un-redacted  copies of his statements but these havent been  
received.  So its not been  possible for me to review  his payments in detail.  Hes not 
provided evidence  to show that other missed payments  in May, June and November 2017 
were paid. I think its likely he wouldve done  if the account payments had been made. Its 
clear that a payment arrangement was reached  in August 2018 and that suggests that there 
was agreement the account was in arrears and I also note that when a voluntary termination 
was agreed Mr T told BPF hed been struggling to keep up with payments because  hed 
been in and out of hospital. So I think its most likely  the account was in arrears and Mr T 
was in breach  of the contract  he had with BPF who were therefore  entitled to default  it.
should BPF remove the default?
Ive seen a copy  of the letter BPF sent to Mr T defaulting the account and a copy  of the 
termination letter. It seems that both are correctly addressed and Im therefore persuaded 
that its most  likely  they were sent to Mr T.
BPF have  a responsibility  to report a consumers financial performance accurately. So they 
need to report  the default.  
But its clear Mr T was given incorrect information  about the default  being removed and in 
those circumstances  BPF should compensate  him, as hes clearly been inconvenienced by 
Ref: DRN93106683being told inaccurate information.  Id agree that a payment of £100  would  be reasonable in 
the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr T £100 to compensate  him for the distress and inconvenience 
hes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9310668