K821x#15complaint
Mr Ts unhappy  that U K Insurance Limited  (trading  as Privilege)  cancelled  his motor 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr T changed his policy to remove his son as a named driver. Mr T says his policy was 
subsequently cancelled incorrectly and he told UKI he would no longer be using the 
telematics device that had been  installed as a condition of his son driving a car. This 
shouldve also been apparent given  Mr Ts age and his policy shouldve been  amended 
accordingly. He says he only found  out his policy was cancelled  when he received a fine and 
warning from the DVLA. Mr T doesnt feel he should  be responsible  for the fine. This has 
also resulted in his insurance premiums going up.
UKI said in its final response that Mr Ts policy was cancelled and no cover is in place. It had 
sent him communications  by email and in the post asking him to contact it about his policy  
and the telematics  device.  But as it didnt receive  a reply his policy  was cancelled and a 
refund processed. Itd complied with the policy terms and conditions  by writing to Mr T about 
his policy  cancellation.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. He said:
When UKI noticed the telematics  device wasnt being used it emailed Mr T. But the 
email address it used  wasnt correct  and it didnt ever confirm  the address with him. 
As a result  the emails wouldnt have reached Mr T.
UKI also wrote to Mr T about the cancellation  but this letter  wasnt  opened by him 
until the DVLA contacted him in December 2017 about a fine. Because  of this he 
cant hold UKI responsible for the fine or Mr Ts increased insurance  costs.
When Mr T called  to remove  his son from his policy on 4 June 2017  he made clear 
he wouldnt be using a vehicle as his son had acquired it from him. There was also 
no mention of the telematics device or its future use. Mr Ts sons  own policy started 
on the same day and required the use of a telematics device. As Mr Ts son had to 
use a telematics device Mr T wouldnt have been able to fit one as there  was only 
one port available in the car. And the only reason a telematics device was required 
on Mr Ts policy was to reflect  the increased  risk young drivers pose. Mr T had 
removed this risk from his policy. He believed he didnt  need the telematics device 
and he wasnt told otherwise. 
Cancelling Mr Ts policy wasnt fair and the cancellation  notice  should  be removed.
UKI doesnt agree. It says it cant trace the call in 2016 when Mr T added his son to the 
policy and the incorrect email address was captured. It wouldve emailed the telematics  
terms and conditions to Mr T but as it had an incorrect email address  he wouldnt have 
received them. But a hard copy  of them was sent out with the device. And they say the 
insured needs  to ring if wishing to cancel  the telematics device. When  it spoke to Mr T 
removing his son from all his motor  policies including the car with the telematics device, it 
asked Mr T if there were  any other changes he needed to make.  If hed mentioned the 
telematics device it wouldve passed him to the relevant team. Its not its fault Mr T didnt 
Ref: DRN92558322open the letter about the cancellation.  If hed done  so sooner all of this couldve been 
avoided.
Mr T says hes disappointed UKI didnt  expressly  tell him it wanted him to keep the 
telematics device. It sent emails to an incorrect address. It didnt use other communication  
methods. It simply cancelled his insurance. Its now extremely expensive for him to get 
insurance. Given his age and experience theres no need for him to have a telematics 
device. It was only required for one car insured for his son to use. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
The parties have  provided detailed submissions. Ive read and considered  them all. But my 
findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. And they focus  on what  I think are the 
main issues.
Overall I think  both parties are partially  responsible for what has happened.
Mr T shouldve reasonably opened the post sent to him by UKI earlier  than he did. If hed 
done so he wouldve become aware of the cancellation earlier  than he did. And he couldve 
always asked what was to happen  to the telematics  device when he removed  his son from 
his policy. If hed done these things it may well be that matters  couldve been resolved more  
quickly and easily as a result.
UKI also sent emails  to Mr T at an incorrect address. Given  the passage  of time it isnt now 
possible to ascertain why the address UKI held wasnt  correct.  But the result was that he 
wouldnt have received the emails  he was sent.  
UKI required a telematics device to be installed on the car used  by Mr Ts son. But I dont 
think its shown that the terms and conditions  relating to the device wouldve necessarily 
come to Mr Ts attention.  The email  address they were sent to wasnt  correct  and although  
UKI says they were also sent with the device Ive seen nothing  to show Mr T received or saw 
them. 
As a result I dont think Mr T wouldve necessarily known  he had to contact a specialist team 
to cancel use of the telematics device. I also think its reasonable to suggest that UKI 
couldve been more  proactive in dealing with the telematics device when Mr T removed his 
son from his policy. It shouldve discussed the need for the telematics device when  he 
amended his policy to remove  his son from it. But it doesnt seem to have done so even 
though the device wouldve only been required to reflect the fact Mr Ts son was an 
inexperienced young driver.
Taking everything into account  I dont think it was fair for Mr Ts policy to be cancelled by 
UKI. And I think  it should  therefore remove the cancellation notice and any adverse 
information its recorded about the cancellation  from Mr Ts record.  But I agree with the 
investigator that it wouldnt be fair to require UKI to meet the fine Mr T incurred or to cover 
any increased insurance costs he says he has incurred. 
Ref: DRN92558323If Mr T accepts my final decision he can advise his new insurers  of the result and the 
amendment to his record and ask them to reconsider his premium  in light of the change in 
his recorded history.
Overall, I think the investigators recommendations are a fair and reasonable resolution of 
this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right U K Insurance  Limited  (trading as Privilege)  
should remove the cancellation  notice  and any adverse information its recorded about  the 
cancellation from Mr Ts record.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9255832