K821x#15Complaint
Mr C is complaining about Falcon International Financial Services Ltd (FIFS) because he 
says he was mis-sold a high-risk,  unregulated investment. This was funded by switching his 
pension benefits  to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP).
Background
Following events that Mr C says started with an unsolicited telephone  call, which according 
to FIFS was from Falcon International Estates Limited (FIE), he switched benefits held in a 
personal pension  with AXA into a SIPP with Avalon. A total amount of around £120,000 was 
switched in August  2013. £88,000  of this was used to fund an investment in an unregulated 
scheme involving  land at Cadnam in the New Forest.
An independent financial adviser (IFA), Sovereign  Financial Services (Sovereign, a trading 
name of J Richfield Ltd), was also involved in arranging the SIPP and pension  switch.
FIFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said it didnt advise Mr C on his investment or anything  
else. Instead, it said any advice was given by Sovereign. FIFSs legal  representative told us 
the following  about the process by which Mr Cs investment was made:
FIFS is a company in the Falcon  Group. The Falcon Group, amongst its other 
financial services activities, manages unregulated collective investment schemes 
(UCIS) in relation  to strategic land investments.
FIE is a separate  company in The Falcon  Group that approached potential investors 
by telephone, a marketing method common in the industry,  to discuss  the benefits of 
investing in land generally and the possible investment structures  that could be used. 
FIE didnt discuss or promote specific investment opportunities. If a potential  investor  
was interested  in receiving more information  about investing in land, FIE referred 
them to independent financial advisers  (IFAs),  such as Sovereign. FIFS had no 
involvement in this process.
This process was necessary because FIE wasnt  authorised to provide investment 
advice to potential  investors. For the avoidance of doubt, FIE didnt provide 
investment advice and didnt communicate any financial  promotions within  Section 21 
of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA).
In relation to FIE's initial discussions with potential investors, Sovereign had provided  
it with a template  form called  a "Client Financial Information" form (or fact find), which  
FIE completed based on information  provided  by the investor.  All completed  fact 
finds were then passed by FIE to Sovereign in respect of any potential investors who 
confirmed they were willing to be referred to the IFA. This was the end of FIE's 
involvement.
On receipt of a completed fact find, Sovereign considered this with a potential  
investor and completed a suitability test in line with the rules  of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Once Sovereign had completed this suitability assessment, it 
provided the potential investor with independent financial advice on whether he/she 
should invest.
Ref: DRN93534252If Sovereign's independent  advice  determined an investment was suitable, it then 
referred the potential  investor to FIFS. FIFS would then provide him/her with 
documentation relating to its investments. This is the first involvement FIFS had with 
any potential investors.
Our adjudicator contacted Mr C for his recollection of how his investment was arranged. He 
said he received  an unsolicited call and was told his existing pension  was lying dormant  and 
being reduced by inflation. He said he was told he could invest it into a scheme to buy land 
without planning  permission, which would then obtain planning permission before being sold 
for a large profit. He also said the caller spoke  about  a particular scheme  in Hampshire only, 
involving land near the New Forest. Mr C told the adjudicator  he doesnt know who called 
him, but that he knew a company called Falcon  was involved. He said he was also aware  of 
a company called  Sovereign,  although  he never  met anybody from that firm and thought  it 
administered the land investment.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. As its appointed representative 
(AR), he thought FIFS was responsible for FIEs actions in relation to Mr Cs investment.  And 
because he didnt believe the investment was suitable for Mr C, he recommended FIFS pay 
compensation.
FIFS didnt accept the adjudicators assessment and made the following key points in 
addition to those  raised previously:
The complaint,  as set out in Mr Cs complaint form, relates to investment advice 
received in relation to strategic  land investments and its his contention that this was 
unsuitable. This is the regulated activity  being complained about, not those  of 
arranging deals  in investments or making  arrangements with a view to transactions  in 
investments as discussed by the adjudicator.
The issue that determines if this complaint falls within  our jurisdiction to consider is 
whether FIFS provided Mr C with investment advice as defined in article  53 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001  (the 
RAO).
FIE didnt provide investment advice as an AR of FIFS. The assessment referred to 
the AR agreement between FIFS  and FIE in place between 2012  and 2017.  But its 
important to be aware that FIFS wasnt authorised  to provide investment advice and 
consequently FIE couldnt either.
As explained in previous correspondence, FIE simply approached potential investors 
to discuss the potential benefits  of investing in land and the possible investment 
structures that could  be used to do this. The entire purpose of referring Mr C to 
Sovereign, an IFA, was so that it could undertake a suitability assessment and 
determine whether  Mr C was suited  to this type of investment. This is the same 
process that was followed in a case we considered previously where an adjudicator 
concluded FIFS wasnt responsible  for providing  advice.
That Sovereign was responsible for any advice is also confirmed in the Independent 
Financial Advisers Declaration  that formed part of the investment application,  which 
was signed by Sovereign to confirm:
Ref: DRN93534253I/We have reviewed this application for a land purchase and confirm  that the 
investment is suitable for the applicant's circumstances and attitude to risk.
The application form also includes a declaration signed by Mr C that said:
I/We accept that I/we must rely on our own professional advice (including  
legal, financial and tax advice) and I have  sought and obtained such advice 
before making  this application as I/we believe is appropriate  considering  
my/our circumstances.
Mr C signed a letter of authority  that gave Sovereign permission to access  
information about his pension arrangements. He did this so it could  ascertain  his 
financial circumstances and consider the suitability  of an investment.  Neither FIFS or 
FIE had access to this information
There are discrepancies  in the information provided by the parties about Mr Cs 
circumstances when  he invested.  In preferring Mr Cs version,  the adjudicator didnt 
place sufficient weight  on the documentation  from the time, including  the fact find and 
the above signed declarations in the application. If we continue  to favour Mr Cs 
version, we should provide copies of the documentation hes given us to confirm his 
circumstances, for example bank statements and tax returns.
The Falcon Group structured its operations to ensure not only that it didnt provide 
investment advice, but also that it didnt communicate financial promotions within 
section 21 of FSMA. FIE approached potential  investors by telephone to discuss  the 
benefits of investing  in land generally  and the possible investment structures that 
could be used to invest in land. It didnt discuss or promote specific  investment 
opportunities. This exemption is covered under article 13 of FSMA (Promotion of 
Collective Investment Schemes)  (Exemptions) Order 2001 (the CIS Exemptions 
Order).
In any event, the ombudsman service  doesnt  have jurisdiction to consider a breach 
of the financial  promotion regime under section 21 of FSMA.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my reasons why I felt the complaint should be 
upheld. Mr Cs representative told us Mr C accepts  the provisional decision, but also made  
the following  comments:
The fact find recorded that Mr Cs annual income was £100,000. This isnt true, it was 
closer to £30,000. Also the statement that he had a portfolio of shares  is false.
Once compensation is resolved,  Mr C intends  to transfer away from the SIPP into a 
more suitable  retirement  vehicle.  Is it possible  to ensure the SIPP provider wont 
charge fees for this?
FIFS didnt accept my findings and its legal  representative made the following key points:
A significant part of my provisional  decision relates to whether or not FIFS itself was 
required to carry out the elective professional client assessment under COBS 3.5.3. 
This isnt relevant.  Ive taken it that FIFS is relying  on the category 7 exemption set 
out in 4.12.4 to justify its promotion  of the investment to Mr C, but thats not correct. 
Ref: DRN93534254FIFS is instead relying on the category  2 exemption, which says it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the investment was suitable for him before promoting it.
The reasonable steps FIFS  took to ensure the investment was suitable for Mr C 
included:
referring him to an experienced IFA for a suitability assessment;
obtaining written  information  from Sovereign in respect of the suitability 
assessment it conducted; and
considering the information provided to it in respect of Mr Cs suitability to 
ensure it was able to rely on the category 2 exemption before promoting the 
investment.
The initial contact by FIE, which occurred  before  referral to Sovereign,  didnt 
constitute a financial  promotion. FIE discussed the benefits of investing in land 
generally and the possible investment structures  that could be used to do this, but it 
didnt promote specific investment  schemes. This business  model  and regulatory 
analysis has previously  been  discussed and agreed with the FCA and the 
ombudsman service  on many occasions. So its inconsistent and irrelevant that I 
failed to identify  a suitability assessment prior to FIE making the initial call to Mr C.
I should reconsider my view that FIFS shouldnt have placed  reliance  on the 
information it received  from Sovereign because  its contrary  to the FCAs rules and 
guidance and inconsistent with previous decisions made  by other  ombudsmen.
It agrees that COBS  2.4.6 covering reliance on information provided by others is 
relevant as FIFS placed reliance  on the suitability assessment performed by 
Sovereign. But my provisional decision doesnt  include  any analysis of how COBS 
2.4.8 applies to the facts of the case. Its inconsistent  with the generally accepted 
application of the FCA rules  to revert to the regulatory Principles without first 
analysing the requirement in COBS  itself. DISP 3.6.4 requires me to take account of 
the regulators guidance and standards when considering  whats fair and reasonable.
With regard to the requirements in COBS 2.4.8, information relating to Mr Cs 
suitability was provided to FIFS in writing.  For example, the investment application 
included the IFA declaration,  signed by Sovereign, confirming the investment  is 
suitable for the applicants circumstances and attitude to risk. Also,  this information 
was provided by an unconnected authorised person, Sovereign. Finally, there was no 
reason for FIFS to doubt the accuracy  of this information for the following reasons:
FIFS carried out extensive due diligence on the systems and controls 
operated by Sovereign, including  in relation  to its suitability assessment, at 
the start of their commercial relationship that began  in 2013. 
FIFS had an ongoing relationship with Sovereign and carried  out due 
diligence on an ongoing basis.  This involved Sovereign attending weekly  
meetings at FIFSs office to discuss each  individual potential  investor  in detail, 
reviewing and discussing the information provided by each potential  investor,  
their risk profile  and the assessment it had undertaken. These discussions 
also took account of the meetings that took place between Sovereign  and 
potential investors, including that with Mr C. FIFS and Sovereign  also had 
regular telephone conversations, sometimes on a daily basis,  to discuss the 
suitability assessments that were being  undertaken by Sovereign. Sovereign 
Ref: DRN93534255would also have ongoing discussions with the potential investor  and provided  
FIFS with regular updates on these discussions.  
Sovereign had been authorised and regulated by the FCA and its 
predecessors since 2011. During that time,  the regulators hadnt taken any 
enforcement action against it for breaching regulatory requirements.
My provisional decision contradicts the guidance  and commentary  thats been 
published by the regulator. For example, when the Markets in Financial  Instruments 
Directive (MiFID) was implemented, the regulator commented on the rules which 
allow a firm to place  reliance on other  firms who may be in the chain for the 
provision of investment  services. It said their effect was to minimise unnecessary 
regulatory burdens by permitting  one firm to rely on anothers  efforts . In respect of 
the reliance provisions more generally, the regulator also said their effect was 
proportionate regulation  it avoids more than one firm having to comply  with the 
same requirement in respect  of the one client/transaction . Whereas,  in my 
provisional decision, Im in effect  suggesting FIFS needed to conduct  its own 
suitability assessment for Mr C despite the fact Sovereign  had already  done it.
My provisional decision contradicts decisions reached by our service on other 
complaints. It provided examples  of cases  that it believes illustrate this point.
Ive effectively said that in promoting the investment to Mr C, FIFS breached the 
regulators Principles. The FCAs rules state  theres  an enforcement  procedure  if 
there are allegations of a breach and this hasnt been followed. I dont have the 
jurisdiction or the information at my disposal  to make such  a determination. Its 
inappropriate for me to comment  on the rules and regulatory provisions, including the 
Principles, which are not the subject of this Complaint, havent been considered by 
the FCA, and are beyond  my remit to consider.
Following my provisional decisions on other complaints involving similar circumstances, 
FIFSs representative made  further submissions that it said related to all four cases  Im 
considering. It raised the following key points:
The sales process changed from 1 January 2014, when the rules in COBS 4.12 were 
amended and the category 2 exemption covering the promotion of UCIS  was 
removed. Prior  to this date, FIFS relied  on the category 2 exemption to promote its 
products. After this date,  it relied  on the category 7 exemption.  It provided  flowcharts  
outlining how each  of these processes worked.
FIFS was entitled to rely on a suitability assessment completed by the IFAs. On the 
issue of whether information about  the suitability assessment was completed in 
writing, I said the application  was presumably completed after the investment had 
been promoted and therefore  any suitability assessment may have taken place after 
promotion. But Ive provided no evidence for this.
Further, FIFS and the IFAs werent connected. While  the term isnt described in the 
Handbook Glossary, my interpretation is irrational and inconsistent with the definition  
of connected that applies in a different context  elsewhere in the Handbook.
Guidance from the regulator issued during the implementation of the Markets in 
Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID)  allowed a firm to place reliance on another  
Ref: DRN93534256that was in the chain for the provision of investment services. The stated aim of this 
was to minimise  unnecessary regulatory  burdens by permitting one firm to rely on 
anothers efforts. In respect  of the reliance provisions, more generally the FSA has 
also said their effect is proportionate regulation  it avoids more than one firm having 
to comply with the same  requirement in respect  of one client  transaction. I should  
have regard to this when interpreting the term unconnected in the context of placing 
reliance on another  firm.
The definition of connected that should  apply is that in COBS 4.12, which is linked 
to the UCIS marketing  exemptions.  Note 2 in COBS  4.12(4) says:
A company is 'connected' with another company if:
they are both in the same group; or
one company is entitled, either  alone or with another  company in the 
same group , to exercise or control  the exercise of a majority of the voting 
rights attributable to the share capital, which are exercisable in all 
circumstances at any general meeting of the other company or of its holding  
company.
FIFS could not be said to be connected  with the IFAs under  this definition.
Finally, FIFS  had no reasonable  grounds to doubt the accuracy of the suitability 
assessments completed by the IFAs. I may not agree  with the outcome  of a suitability 
assessment based on the consumers circumstances, but this isnt the issue  to be 
considered. The issue to be determined is whether FIFS was entitled  to rely on the 
information it was given by the IFAs.
Ive referred to supporting documents provided  by the consumers but FIFS didnt 
have, and wasnt required to have, this information. It relied on the information 
provided by the IFAs and had no reason to doubt  this because of the extensive due 
diligence measures it had in place and that have been described previously.
Ive also said that the information on which the IFAs suitability assessment was 
based should have given  it reasonable grounds  to doubt the accuracy of that 
assessment. But as stated by the regulator and outlined  above, the whole  purpose  of 
the reliance rules was to minimise unnecessary regulatory burdens and prevent 
duplication of effort. So FIFS  wasnt required to receive or review all of the 
information on which the IFAs suitability assessment was based.
Ive said the due diligence measures FIFS put in place suggest the relationship  
between it and the IFAs was close, indicating a connection in respect of the 
investment schemes  being promoted.  But actually the measures were  entirely  
reasonable to ensure FIFS complied with its regulatory obligations. Otherwise,  it 
seems any step taken to ensure the accuracy  of the information it received from the 
IFAs would  lead me to consider there was a connection and no reliance could be 
placed on their suitability assessments. Applying  my comments  would lead to a 
situation where COBS  2.4.6(2) would never  allow an authorised  firm to place reliance 
on another authorised firm to comply with any rule requiring it to obtain information.
In summary,  my analysis  in respect  of COBS 2.4.8 and its application to these 
complaints is inconsistent with the generally accepted  application of the FCA rules.
Ref: DRN93534257FIFS has operated  the sales process discussed  in these complaints for more than 10 
years. Neither FIFS nor any other  company within  the Falcon Group has ever been  
sanctioned by the regulator in respect of any regulatory rule breaches.  While Im 
entitled to consider  and comment on regulatory rules and principles, it questions 
whether I have the power to decide whether a rule breach has taken place or 
whether its necessary  for me to do so. In fulfilling my role outlined  in DISP 3.6.1, its 
sufficient only for me to form a view on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case.  I dont need to conclude  a regulatory breach has occurred 
to find in a consumers favour. 
It also questions how I was able to reach  such  a conclusion where limited information 
has been provided and Ive also commented on various inconsistencies between the 
consumers statements during the complaints process and the documentation  that 
was provided/signed/reviewed by them at the time of their investment.
It provided copies of correspondence between  the regulator  at that time the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA)  - and the Falcon Group from 2012 following its 
review of the sales process  that applied to the complaints Im considering.  This didnt 
identify any rule breaches and no action was taken.  FIFSs process hasnt changed 
since this date.
In explaining  the process  to the regulator, it was expressly stated that:
it relied on the category 2 exemption  to market its products to potential 
investors; and
its relationship with the IFA, including the fact that the IFA completed the 
suitability assessment and FIFS then relied  on this.
The regulator confirmed  that it accepted this explanation in its letter of 2 May 2012.  It 
would be irrational for me to take a view thats not consistent with the regulators 
investigation and analysis.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  my conclusions havent changed.
As with my provisional decision, I havent tried to address every single point raised here.  Ive 
instead concentrated on the key issues that I think are central to the outcome. I also note 
FIFSs representative has referred to previous decisions issued by our service, but I hope it 
will appreciate that I must consider and decide  each case based on its own individual facts 
and circumstances.
I note FIFSs  representative thinks I should issue a further provisional decision in light of its 
recent submissions,  but I dont think thats  necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. I 
addressed the key issues, including the application of the exemptions  in COBS 4.12, in 
detail in my provisional  decision  and I dont think the responses  raise any substantive new 
issues or lines of argument that justify delaying the settlement of this complaint further. Im 
satisfied FIFS has had adequate opportunity to make submissions and that its now 
appropriate for me to issue my final decision.
Ref: DRN93534258The sales process
I thank FIFSs representative for its recent  clarification of the sales process  that led to Mr Cs 
investment, although  even this explanation  appears  to include contradictions. Most  notably, 
it begins by saying the exemption FIFS relied on was different after the rules  were changed 
at the start of 2014,  yet it later says the same process has operated for over ten years. 
Either way, according to the latest submissions, including  the flowcharts outlining how sales  
should have been conducted at different times,  FIFS seems to be saying the three-stage  
process was intended to work as follows:
The first stage was the initial contact by FIE. According to FIFSs representative,  FIE 
gave no advice and discussed the benefits  of investing in land generally  and the 
structures that could  be used to facilitate this without promoting  a particular 
investment  Ill return to this point later. FIE also referred Mr C to an IFA, Sovereign, 
for advice and FIFSs representative has referred to FIE completing a fact find with 
consumers to assist  with that. FIE was a separate company to FIFS, but had been its 
AR since August  2012.
The second stage  involved Sovereign. Its role was to provide advice on whether an 
investment was suitable for Mr C. Sovereign also arranged  the SIPP  and the switch 
of Mr Cs pension benefits.  Sovereign was a regulated  business  in its own right and 
its not appropriate for me to comment  on its actions here, except where  this is 
relevant to the outcome  of the complaint about  FIFS.
The final stage was the promotion  of particular land investments  by FIFS. In making 
this promotion,  FIFS relied on the suitability assessment completed by Sovereign,  
which it believed meant  the category 2 exemption in COBS  4.12.4 applied.
As Ive outlined, accounts of the sales process  that should have  been  followed have been 
inconsistent and seem  to vary depending on who youre speaking  to and when youre 
speaking to them. But whatever the truth of the situation, Im looking at whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  So the nature of the process that should 
have been followed  is much less relevant and Im far more concerned with what actually did 
happen when  Mr Cs investment was established.
Jurisdiction
Ive reviewed my findings on the issues concerning our jurisdiction to consider this complaint 
in light of the submissions  received since my provisional decision. To be clear  and as 
required, my conclusions on our jurisdiction  are based on a strict  interpretation of the rules  
rather than what I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr C says his investment was mis-sold. The overall process of selling the investment 
incorporated a number of different activities, including promoting  the investment,  advising  on 
it, and arranging it. Some of these activities were carried  out by FIE and FIFS.
jurisdiction - in respect of the activities of FIFS
Regulated activities are specified in the RAO. Along  with other  investors, Mr C invested in 
plots of land with a view to planning permission  being obtained in the future when  the land 
Ref: DRN93534259could be sold at a profit. It seems to be accepted the scheme  is a UCIS. Units in a collective 
investment scheme  (CIS), which includes UCIS,  are specified as investments (article  82).
Ive set out previously  that I think FIFS was involved in various regulated activities in 
connection with Mr Cs investment. These included establishing and operating  a CIS (article 
51), arranging deals in investments (article 25), and agreeing to arrange deals in 
investments (article 64). While promoting investments wasnt  a regulated activity in its own 
right, a complaint about promotional activity would fall within our jurisdiction if it was ancillary 
to one of the other regulated activities Ive identified.
FIFSs representative hasnt disputed my findings on these issues and my conclusions 
havent changed. Promoting its investments was a key part of the sales  process described 
by FIFSs  representative and there doesnt seem  to be any dispute that it carried  out this 
activity and that it was ancillary to the regulated  activities identified.
jurisdiction - in respect of the activities of FIE
In my view, the evidence  also indicates  FIE was involved in regulated activity, particularly 
that of arranging deals in investments. This activity is defined  as:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, 
sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a) a security,
(b) a contractually based investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as 
relevant to that article,
is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements  with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying,  selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling 
within paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether  as principal or agent) is also a specified 
kind of activity.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think the fact FIE was involved in this activity is 
demonstrated by the letters from FIE to Mr C dated  11 December 2013 and 8 January 2014, 
in which  it enclosed share certificates  for his land purchase and confirmed the relevant funds 
had been transferred to the management companys bank account.
I note FIFSs  representative has also referred to FIE providing, and possibly completing, a 
fact find with clients prior to them being referred to the IFA. I think that would also be part of 
the process of arranging  Mr Cs investment.
As I also said in my provisional  decision, I think FIE was involved in promoting investments  
to Mr C. The FCA defines a financial promotion  simply as: 
an invitation or inducement to engage  in investment activity  . . . that is communicated 
in the course of business
Further, section 8.23.2 of the Perimeter Guidance  Manual (PERG), the regulator says:
 
Ref: DRN935342510Anyone who is carrying on a regulated activity is likely to make financial 
promotions in the course  of or for the purposes of carrying on that activity. 
FIFSs representative maintains the actions of FIE didnt  amount to a financial promotion  and 
says it only discussed  the benefits of investing in land generally and the possible investment 
structures that could  be used  without  promoting specific investments.  This directly 
contradicts Mr Cs recollection that the person who called him spoke about a particular 
investment scheme  involving land near the New Forest, which  is what  he ended  up investing 
in. 
Without access to a recording or other  records of the conversation,  its difficult to be 
absolutely certain  about  what FIE discussed with Mr C. But in my view, his recollection that 
specific investments, including that at Cadnam, were  discussed is compelling. I certainly 
dont think its likely  he deliberately misrepresented  this point as I dont believe he had a 
detailed understanding of the rules covering the promotion of UCIS and the potential 
significance of this issue when he made  his complaint.  
Further, based on the description  of the sales process provided by FIFSs representative, Im 
conscious that FIEs aim when contacting Mr C was to arrange for him to speak to 
Sovereign, which was the next stage  in a sales process ultimately  designed to result  in him 
investing in a scheme offered by FIFS and no other  scheme operators. Mr C says the call 
from FIE was unsolicited  and he doesnt  appear  to have been looking to switch his pension  
benefits to a new arrangement to fund unregulated investments in land. In the 
circumstances, I think  its unlikely hed have considered speaking to anyone  else about  such  
a proposition further if FIE hadnt given him some information about the proposed  
investment. Further, for FIE to achieve  its aim, I think any comments it did make would have 
been positive  and ultimately intended  to induce him to agree to invest. 
 
On balance, Im satisfied FIE was involved in the regulated activity of arranging  investments 
and the unregulated (but ancillary) activity  of promoting FIFSs investments to Mr C. Further,  
I think the evidence  shows it was carrying out these  activities before Mr C had been referred 
to Sovereign. As an ancillary activity to that of arranging his investment, Im satisfied a 
complaint about  promotion by FIE falls within our jurisdiction and is something we can 
consider.
jurisdiction - is FIFS responsible for the activities  of FIE?
The fact FIFS  effectively outsourced part of the promotional activity  doesnt mean it 
somehow isnt responsible for the regulated and ancillary activities  carried  out by FIE. FIE 
acted as an AR of FIFS at all times. My provisional decision analysed  the AR agreement  
between FIFS and its AR and I concluded that this authorised FIE to engage in promotional  
activity. As FIFS permitted FIE to carry out this activity on its behalf, it follows that its 
responsible if it wasnt  done  correctly. FIFSs  representative hasnt disputed  this point and 
my conclusions remain unchanged.
overall conclusions  on jurisdiction
For the reasons  Ive set out here, I remain satisfied that both FIE and FIFS were involved in 
regulated and ancillary promotional activities involving Mr Cs investment and that FIE was 
promoting the particular investment offered to him before he was referred  to Sovereign. As a 
result, Im satisfied we can consider a complaint about the actions of both FIE and FIFS.
Ref: DRN935342511Merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my provisional decision from FIFSs representative, my conclusions and 
the key reasons for them  havent changed.
From comments in its most recent submissions, it seems FIFSs representative may have 
misunderstood my role. The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA),  under which 
the Financial Ombudsman Service was established,  says in section 228:
A complaint is to be determined by reference to what is, in the opinion  of the 
ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
The same section of FSMA also says:
When the ombudsman  has determined a complaint he must give a written statement 
of his determination to the respondent and to the complainant.
The statement  must
(a)give the ombudsmans  reasons  for his determination;
To discharge  these  responsibilities effectively, a key consideration in assessing any case 
must be whether  the respondent firm has treated the consumer making the complaint fairly. I 
think that requires  me to consider whether the rules and regulatory Principles the firm is 
expected to adhere to have been  followed. FIFSs representative seems to accept this when  
it refers to DISP 3.6.4, which says:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
the Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate)  what  he considers  to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
I have no power to fine or punish a firm for a breach of any of the above and maybe thats 
what FIFSs representative is thinking  of when it says considering such issues are outside 
my remit. But I have  a duty to consider  whether a breach of specific  rules  or high-level 
principles has occurred  and, if its material to the outcome, to identify this in setting out the 
reasons for my decision as Im required to do under  section 228 of FSMA.
correspondence with the FSA in 2012
With its most  recent  submissions, FIFSs  representative  has provided copies of 
correspondence between  FIE and the FSA in 2012. This shows  the FSA asked for details 
about FIEs introduction  of potential clients to an IFA and its apparently  being  argued that 
because no action was taken this represents  an endorsement of the overall sales process. 
Ref: DRN935342512Unfortunately, we havent been provided  with a copy of the FSAs response to the 
explanation provided by FIE in June 2012  so I cant say with certainty that this was 
accepted. But even if it was demonstrated that the FSA was satisfied with the explanation it 
received about  the sales process,  this wouldnt demonstrate that process was followed 
correctly when Mr C invested and thats the issue I must address here. So I dont  accept that 
it would  be irrational for me to conclude Mr Cs complaint should be upheld on the grounds 
Ive previously outlined  simply  because of the correspondence between  FIE and the FSA in 
2012, more than a year before he invested.
Incidentally, I note FIFSs representative has also said its business  model  has been 
discussed and agreed with our service. But its not provided any evidence  to demonstrate 
this and I find it unlikely  that any such agreement was obtained. The role of the ombudsman 
service is to consider  individual disputes  on their own merits and its never  been  our remit or 
practice to carry out reviews of a firms business model  or enter  into discussions about such  
issues.
the rules on promoting  UCIS
As Ive previously set out, there were rules covering the promotion of UCIS  at the time Mr C 
invested. The starting point in section  238 of FSMA was that:
An authorised person  must not communicate  an invitation or inducement to 
participate in a collective investment scheme.
The CIS Exemptions Order sets out circumstances where this restriction  doesnt apply and 
FIFSs representative has previously referred  to article 13, which says:
The scheme promotion restriction does not apply to any communication which:
(a) does not relate to units of a particular unregulated scheme identified (directly or 
indirectly) in the communication; and
(b) does not identify (directly or indirectly) any person who operates a collective 
investment scheme  or sells units.
For this exemption to apply, it must be the case  that any communication (which  would 
include telephone  calls as well as written  correspondence) doesnt relate to a particular 
investment scheme  and doesnt identify a particular scheme operator. 
I think its clear  a particular scheme operator had been identified  from the outset as the sales 
process followed by FIE and FIFS meant all resultant investments would only be through 
FIFS and no other scheme operators. Further, theres no dispute FIFS identified  its own 
investments when promoting to Mr C and, for the reasons set out earlier in this decision,  Im 
satisfied FIE did the same. For these reasons, I dont think  FIFS was entitled  to believe 
either its actions or those  of FIE were covered by article 13 in the CIS Exemptions Order.
the exemptions in COBS
As I set out in my provisional  decision, there were other exceptions to the general prohibition 
covering the promotion of UCIS. At the time Mr C was contacted  by FIE and promotion 
began, section 4.12.1 of The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) said:
Ref: DRN935342513A firm may communicate  an invitation or inducement  to participate in an unregulated 
collective investment scheme  without breaching the restriction  on promotion 
in section 238 of the Act if the promotion  falls within an exemption in the table in (4), 
as explained further in the Notes.
The table referred to set out various  categories  of client  to whom it was acceptable to 
promote UCIS. 
which exemption is being relied on?
The most recent submissions from FIFSs  representative seem to confirm that the category 2 
exemption was relied on to promote its products to Mr C. I think  its relevant to note at this 
point that by relying on this exemption alone, FIFS would effectively be accepting  Mr C was 
a retail client and not a professional client. But I remain conscious  that the submissions from 
FIFSs representative have been  inconsistent throughout. Its previously told us that 
Sovereign assessed  Mr C as an elective professional client, indicating  it relied  instead  on the 
category 7 exemption. 
The fact FIFSs representative have been  so inconsistent on how sales were made doesnt 
inspire confidence that the intended process  was followed correctly. But either way, the most 
important consideration in deciding this particular case is whether  FIFS was entitled to 
promote its investments to Mr C. As far as I can see, there were only two possible grounds 
on which it could do that and these are covered by the category  2 and category 7 
exemptions in COBS 4.12.4. So Ive considered the evidence carefully to assess  whether  
either of these provided a justification for FIFSs actions in promoting its investment to Mr C. 
category 2 exemption
Under a category 2 exemption, COBS 4.12.4  essentially permits the promotion of UCIS  to 
A person:
(a)for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure  that investment in 
the collective investment scheme  is suitable;
To legitimately promote FIFSs  products  to Mr C under this exemption, FIE and FIFS would  
have first needed (before  sending  an information  memorandum or making any other form of 
promotion) to take reasonable steps to satisfy  itself that those investments were suitable for 
him. Under  the sales process as most  recently described by FIFSs representative, 
Sovereign carried out a suitability assessment and FIFS relied on that to promote its 
products.
FIE  was it entitled to rely on the category 2 exemption?
Under the sales process described by FIFSs  representative, the assessment of whether the 
investment was suitable for Mr C  which was required before UCIS could be promoted to 
him - was completed at the second stage when  he spoke to Sovereign.  As Ive explained 
earlier in this decision, I believe the evidence  shows  FIE promoted  a particular investment to 
him before he was referred to Sovereign and, crucially, before there was any consideration 
of whether it was suitable for him. Further, Im satisfied this promotional activity  was ancillary 
to the part FIE played  in the regulated activity of arranging Mr Cs investment.
Ref: DRN935342514I believe its clear from the description  of what took place by both parties that no attempt was 
made to ensure it was appropriate  to promote to Mr C before FIE began its promotional 
activity. That means  FIE wasnt entitled  to rely on the exemption in COBS and should have 
identified that it wasnt appropriate to promote  to Mr C. That it went on to do so represents  a 
breach of the regulators rules that were  designed  for the protection  of consumers. 
FIFS  was it entitled to rely on the category 2 exemption?
I dont think the wording of the exemption  indicates  FIFS was required to carry out a 
suitability assessment itself. And I take the point that the regulator allowed a firm to rely on 
information from another in certain circumstances.  So in principle,  it might  be reasonable for 
a firm promoting investments to rely on a suitability  assessment completed by another.  But 
the key question I need to address is whether  FIFS took reasonable steps to ensure its 
investment scheme  was suitable for Mr C before  promoting it to him. The reasonable step it 
says it took was to rely on a suitability assessment made by Sovereign.
was FIFS entitled  to rely on Sovereigns suitability assessment?
The circumstances in which its appropriate for one firm to rely on information provided by 
another is addressed in COBS 2.4. In my view, the relevant sections are COBS 2.4.6 to 
2.4.8. At the time Mr C invested, these  sections said:
Reliance on others:  other situations
COBS 2.4.6
(1) This rule applies if the rule on reliance on other investment firms (COBS 2.4.4 R) 
does not apply.
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance  with any rule in this sourcebook that 
requires it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by another person.
COBS 2.4.7  
(1) In relying on COBS 2.4.6 R, a firm should take reasonable steps to establish that 
the other person providing written  information  is not connected with the firm and is 
competent to provide the information.
(2) Compliance with (1) may be relied upon  as tending to establish  compliance 
with COBS 2.4.6 R.
(3) Contravention of (1) may be relied upon as tending to establish contravention 
of COBS 2.4.6 R.
COBS 2.4.8
 
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance  with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely 
on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or 
a professional firm, unless it is aware or ought  reasonably to be aware of any fact 
that would  give reasonable grounds  to question the accuracy of that information.
Ref: DRN935342515The guidance provided in COBS isnt exhaustive.  But for FIFS to rely on information 
provided by Sovereign that the investment product it was promoting to Mr C was suitable for 
him, the expectation  was that it was reasonable for it to do so. The examples of situations 
where this would be reasonable, as set out in COBS  2.4.8, include those  where the 
information being relied upon was in writing,  from an unconnected  authorised  firm, and 
where it had no reason  to doubt its accuracy.
After reviewing the evidence carefully, I dont think the circumstances of this case  are 
consistent with any of those described  in COBS where it would have been reasonable for 
FIFS to rely on information  from Sovereign that an appropriate suitability assessment had 
been completed. In summary,  I believe:
theres insufficient evidence to show  information  was provided in writing before the 
promotion took place;
FIFS was working  collaboratively  with Sovereign,  so it wasnt  an unconnected firm; 
and
theres insufficient evidence to show  FIFS could  reasonably conclude a proper  
assessment of suitability  had taken place.
Ill now explain my reasons for reaching these conclusions in detail.
did Sovereign confirm  its suitability assessment  to FIFS in writing?
FIFSs representative says it obtained  written confirmation from Sovereign  that its 
investment products were suitable for Mr C and it referred to a declaration  on the investment 
application, which was signed by Soveriegn, and said:
l/We have reviewed this application for a land purchase and confirm  that the 
investment is suitable for the applicant's circumstances and attitude to risk.
FIFS has only provided a copy of Mr Cs application form with the above declaration signed 
by Sovereign on 2 August  2013. But under the sales process described, its not reasonable 
to think the application and declaration were  completed before  FIFS had promoted  the 
investment as part of the third stage of the sales process Ive outlined above.  So this 
declaration cant  have been  the written confirmation  of the suitability assessment FIFS relied  
upon.
In response to comments from FIFSs  representative, Im not saying  this means the 
suitability assessment took place after promotion  had begun. What I am saying is that this 
document doesnt demonstrate FIFS had written confirmation from Sovereign that it had 
completed a suitability assessment and concluded  the products it was promoting  were 
suitable for Mr C before  it promoted them to him.
Ive reviewed the other evidence provided  but havent found  anything else in writing from the 
time before FIFS started promoting its products  to Mr C to inform it that Sovereign had 
completed an appropriate suitability assessment that concluded the products to be promoted 
were suitable for him. I note what FIFSs  representative has said about how the sales 
process was intended to work. But that doesnt prove it was followed correctly in this case. If 
FIFS had received written  confirmation  from Sovereign that it was satisfied the products to 
be promoted to Mr C were suitable  for him, I dont think its unreasonable  to expect it to be 
Ref: DRN935342516able to provide  this. And in the absence of this information, I think its open  to me to 
conclude this expectation in COBS 2.4.8  wasnt satisfied.
were Sovereign and FIFS unconnected?
In the General Provisions (GEN) section of the FCA Handbook, Gen 2.2 Interpreting  the 
Handbook said:
Purposive interpretation
GEN 2.2.1 
Every provision in the Handbook must  be interpreted in the light of its purpose.
GEN 2.2.2
The purpose of any provision in the Handbook  is to be gathered first and foremost  
from the text of the provision in question and its context  among other  relevant 
provisions. The guidance given on the purpose of a provision is intended as an 
explanation to assist readers of the Handbook . As such, guidance  may assist the 
reader in assessing the purpose of the provision, but it should  not be taken as a 
complete or definitive explanation of a provision's  purpose.
. . . .
Use of defined expressions
GEN 2.2.6 
Expressions with defined meanings  appear  in italics in the Handbook.
. . . .
GEN 2.2.9 
Unless the context  otherwise  requires, where italics have not been used, an 
expression bears its natural meaning (subject to the Interpretation Act 1978; 
see GEN 2.2.11 R to GEN 2.2.12  G).
. . . .
GEN 2.2.11  
The Interpretation Act 1978 applies to the Handbook .
GEN 2.2.12  
The application of the Interpretation Act 1978  to the Handbook  has the effect, in 
particular, that:
(1) expressions in the Handbook used in the Act have the meanings which 
they bear in the Act, unless the contrary intention appears;
In COBS 2.4.8, the term unconnected doesnt appear in italics so isnt defined.  In 
accordance with GEN 2.2.9, the natural meaning of the word  needs  to be applied and I cant 
see anything in the Interpretation Act that would inform otherwise on this point.
Ref: DRN935342517Legally, Sovereign  and FIFS were different companies. But in practice and in terms of this 
sales process at least, its clear  that they werent acting independently.  Instead,  there  was a 
high degree of interdependence  and collaboration. Both firms were an integral part of a 
process that was agreed between them. And according to the submissions from FIFSs 
representative, the nature of its ongoing  relationship  with Sovereign was very close.  Its said 
to have involved detailed  discussions in weekly meetings and regular telephone 
conversations, that sometimes took place on a daily basis.
Further, the nature of the relationship was such that the actions of Sovereign had a direct  
impact on the fortunes  of FIFS and vice-versa. If Sovereign didnt conclude the products 
FIFS offered were suitable  for Mr C, FIFS wouldnt have been  able to promote its 
investments to him and wouldnt have made any money. And if FIFS didnt promote its 
investments to Mr C, there  wouldnt  have  been any reason for him to transfer his pension  to 
a SIPP  and Sovereign  wouldnt  have  made  any money either. 
The main  purpose of the rules in COBS was to ensure protection for consumers. The rules  
on reliance in COBS 2.4 also provide for a situation  where one firm can rely on information 
from another. But this is subject to conditions and the purpose of those conditions  was to 
prevent consumers from the harm that could  result from one firm relying  on information from 
another when  its not appropriate for it to do so. In my view,  a good example  of where it 
wouldnt be appropriate for one firm to rely on information from another is when those two 
firms have a relationship thats based  on mutual  self-interest  and theres an incentive for one 
party to provide certain information to the other  even  if that isnt correct. So if the natural 
meaning of the term unconnected and the purposive  interpretation  of the rule requiring firms 
to be unconnected are applied, I dont think FIFS was entitled to rely on a suitability 
assessment completed  by Sovereign because it wasnt an unconnected firm. 
In its most recent submissions, FIFSs  representative has referred to the notes at the foot of 
COBS 4.12.4. In particular, it says my interpretation of the term unconnected should  be 
based on Note 2, which says:
A company is 'connected' with another company if:
they are both in the same group; or
one company is entitled, either  alone or with another  company in the 
same group , to exercise or control  the exercise of a majority of the voting 
rights attributable to the share capital, which are exercisable in all 
circumstances at any general meeting of the other company or of its holding  
company.
FIFSs representative has quoted from COBS 4.12.4  as updated  on 1 January 2014,  so that 
clearly doesnt apply to this case. But the same note does appear  in the version  of COBS 
that applied when Mr C invested, although  it was listed  as Note  4 at that time.
Ive considered the content of this note carefully,  but it refers specifically to a different 
exemption (category 4) and relates to a company promoting its shares or debentures to 
employees. These are entirely different circumstances to those in this complaint and I dont 
think it follows that this definition should be applied to all circumstances where its necessary 
to determine the extent  of a connection between  two firms.
Ref: DRN935342518In terms of addressing  the issues raised  by this particular complaint, its not helpful that the 
term unconnected isnt specifically defined  in COBS 2.4.8. But in the circumstances, I still 
believe its appropriate to apply the natural meaning of the word  and to interpret COBS 2.4.8 
in light of its purpose as set out in GEN 2.2, which  after all is intended to describe how the 
Handbook should be interpreted. For this reason, it remains my view that FIFS wasnt  
entitled to rely on a suitability assessment completed by Sovereign  because it wasnt  an 
unconnected firm.
was FIFS aware, or should it have been  aware,  of reason to doubt the accuracy of 
information from Sovereign saying the product it was promoting was suitable  for Mr C?
While its not been able to demonstrate this was provided in writing  as Ive already  
discussed, FIFSs representative says it promoted  to Mr C based  on information  provided  by 
Sovereign that it had completed  a suitability assessment and concluded its products were  
suitable for him. And its correct to say the issue I need to decide  here is whether FIFS 
should have had reason  to doubt the accuracy of this information.
Im not suggesting FIFS should have carried out its own suitability assessment. But it should 
have understood  what  the advice process  looked like. The sales process involved FIE 
completing a fact find for Sovereign, so it seems  that everybody  understood the adviser 
needed to know  about Mr Cs circumstances and requirements. FIFS should also have 
known that an adviser  would  normally be expected to provide a suitability letter and 
appropriate risk warnings about  any investment  being considered.
FIFS knew its products were covered by the general  prohibition on promoting  UCIS in FSMA 
and that the regulator  had taken the view they werent generally suitable for retail  investors.  
In the circumstances, and before it could reasonably be satisfied it was appropriate to 
promote to Mr C, I think its reasonable to expect that FIFS should  have  satisfied itself 
Sovereign had followed the correct process to assess suitability. I dont think it would have 
been enough to simply accept Sovereigns  word that this was the case. Its representative 
has made much of the ongoing due diligence it carried out, which it says involved frequent 
meetings and detailed discussions of individual  investors, and that suggests to me that FIFS 
understood this point.
If the advice  process  had been followed correctly, Sovereign should  have  been  able to 
demonstrate this to FIFS,  by providing copies of a suitability  letter  and appropriate risk 
warnings for example.  But in this particular case, beyond completing  a fact find and risk 
profiler, I think the evidence indicates  no appropriate suitability assessment took place and I 
note Mr C says he never  even met anyone from Sovereign.
If FIFS had checked  that an adequate suitability assessment had been  completed and 
Sovereign had provided evidence to satisfy  this enquiry, I think  its reasonable to believe it 
would have a record of this. But as it stands,  FIFS hasnt been able to provide any 
documentary evidence  to show  the correct advice  process was followed in respect of the 
suitability of the investment. So I think its more likely than not that this never existed. 
Without sight of evidence that an appropriate suitability assessment had been completed,  I 
think FIFS had reasonable grounds  to doubt whether its investments were  in fact suitable  for 
Mr C and should have  concluded that it couldnt  promote to him.
In respect of my discussion  in my provisional  decisions of the relevance of the Principles for 
Businesses (PRIN), I note FIFSs  representative  appears concerned  that I may be using the 
Principles to supplant  the rules. But I think its clear  from what Ive said above that, by 
Ref: DRN935342519reference to COBS alone, there  are compelling  reasons to conclude that FIFS shouldnt  
have promoted  its products  to Mr C. A consideration of the Principles only supports that view 
for the reasons Ive explained before.
Taking everything into account,  I think the evidence shows that it wasnt  reasonable for FIFS 
to believe an appropriate assessment had been completed and that its products were 
suitable for Mr C. So it follows that it shouldnt have  promoted to him. 
what were the consequences of FIE and FIFS promoting to Mr C without first taking 
reasonable steps to ensure the investment was suitable for him?
The overall transaction involved Mr C moving his pension fund to an alternative unregulated, 
high-risk, investment that presented the possibility he could lose most  or all of his money.  
This put him at significant risk of detriment. Hed also be without the protection  offered  by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Ive explained  in detail in my provisional decision why I dont think  this proposition was 
suitable for Mr C and FIFSs representative  doesnt appear to be disputing my conclusions  
on this point. So I think it follows  that if Sovereign had completed  an appropriate suitability 
assessment, it should have reached  the same conclusion. I believe this shows  that by failing 
to take reasonable steps to ensure  an adequate suitability assessment had been carried out 
before promoting  to Mr C, the actions of FIE and FIFS directly  contributed  to the loss hes 
suffered.
category 7 exemption
Under a category 7 exemption, COBS 4.12.4  permits the promotion of UCIS  to:
 
An eligible  counterparty  or a professional client.
For Mr C to have  been  appropriately considered and treated as an elective professional 
client, all three of the criteria set out in COBS 3.5.3 would have needed to be satisfied. This 
said:
Elective professional clients
A firm may treat a client other than a local public authority or municipality as 
an elective professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and, where applicable, 
(2):
(1)the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature 
of the transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making  
his own investment decisions and understanding the risks involved (the 
"qualitative test");
(2)in relation to MiFID or equivalent third country  business in the course of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
(a) the client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant 
market at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four 
quarters;
Ref: DRN935342520(b) the size of the client's financial instrument portfolio, defined as including  
cash deposits and financial  instruments, exceeds EUR 500,000;
(c) the client works or has worked  in the financial sector for at least  one year in 
a professional position, which requires  knowledge  of the transactions  or 
services envisaged;
(the "quantitative test"); and
(3)the following  procedure is followed:
(a) the client must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as 
a professional client either generally  or in respect  of a particular service  or 
transaction or type of transaction or product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written warning of the protections and 
investor compensation rights the client  may lose; and
(c)  the client must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, 
that it is aware of the consequences of losing such protections.
FIE  was it entitled to rely on the category 7 exemption?
Under the sales process described by FIFSs  representative, any assessment of whether Mr 
C was a professional  client  which  was required before UCIS could be promoted to him  
would have been completed  at the second  stage when he spoke to Sovereign.  As Ive 
explained earlier in this decision,  I believe the evidence  shows FIE promoted a particular 
investment to him before  he was referred  to Sovereign and, crucially, before there was any 
consideration of whether he was a professional  client. Further, Im satisfied this promotional  
activity was ancillary to the part FIE played  in the regulated activity of arranging Mr Cs 
investment.
I believe its clear from the description  of what took place by both parties that no attempt was 
made to ensure it was appropriate  to promote to Mr C before FIE began its promotional 
activity. That means  FIE wasnt entitled  to rely on the exemption in COBS and should have 
identified that it wasnt appropriate to promote  to Mr C. That it went on to do so represents  a 
breach of the regulators rules that were  designed  for the protection  of consumers. 
FIFS  was it entitled to rely on the category 7 exemption?
I believe the actions  of FIE alone  would  sufficient for this complaint to be upheld. But for the 
sake of completeness, Ive also considered whether FIFS would have been entitled to 
promote its investments to Mr C by relying on the category  7 exemption.
The category 7 exemption specifically says a firm could treat an investor as an elective 
professional client  if it complied with the relevant requirements. My interpretation of this is 
that the firm involved  in promoting UCIS needed to follow the appropriate steps itself. I dont 
think the rules allowed  FIFS  to delegate its regulatory responsibilities to another  party,  
Sovereign for example.  I believe  this interpretation is illustrated in the context of the third 
point in COBS  3.5.3. This says a client must state in writing  to the firm  which,  when read in 
the context of the rest of the rule, I think can only reasonably  be interpreted as referring  to 
Ref: DRN935342521the firm promoting  UCIS   that he/she wants to be treated as a professional client. I think  the 
same could be said of the requirements  for the firm  again,  the firm promoting the UCIS  to 
provide a clear  written  warning of the protections being given up and to obtain  confirmation 
of the clients  understanding of this.
In this particular  case, if an assessment of Mr C as an elective professional  client was 
completed, the relevant  submissions are consistent  that this would have been completed by 
Sovereign. Theres been no suggestion  from anyone involved in this complaint (and theres 
no evidence to support  any such suggestion either) that FIFS itself took the steps required in 
COBS 3.5.3. As a result, I dont  think FIFS would have  been entitled to treat Mr C as a 
professional client  or to promote its investments to him on that basis. That it went on to do so 
represents a breach  of the regulators rules  that were designed for the protection of 
consumers.
what were the consequences of FIE and FIFS promoting to Mr C without first carrying  out an 
appropriate assessment  of his status?
If FIE of FIFS had carried out an appropriate assessment of whether Mr C was an elective 
professional client  before promoting to him, I think the evidence  shows that he couldnt  
reasonably have been considered to have met the quantitative test outlined above. Mr C 
disputes the accuracy of most of what was recorded about his circumstances at the time in 
the fact find and I find his recollection of his circumstances compelling. But even if the 
contents of the fact find are accepted as showing he satisfied part (b) of the quantitative  test, 
he doesnt appear to have  satisfied either  of the other criteria. Ive seen no suggestion that 
hed carried out relevant  transactions  at the required frequency or that he worked  or had 
worked in a relevant professional position.
So I think its clear that any assessment of Mr Cs status should  have led both FIE and FIFS 
to conclude they couldnt promote to him. Because rules designed for his protection  werent 
followed, I think I could  only reasonably  conclude  FIE and FIFS didnt treat Mr C fairly. As 
the principal of FIE, and in line with the contents of the AR agreement, Im satisfied FIFS 
would be responsible for FIEs failings in the respect. Further, I dont think  Mr C would have 
invested but for the promotional activities of FIE and FIFS. So it follows  that the actions of 
these firms directly  contributed to the loss hes suffered
conclusions
As Ive said above,  the key consideration in this case  is whether FIE and FIFS were entitled 
to promote the investment to Mr C. There were only two grounds on which  promotion could 
possibly be justified, the category 2 and category 7 exemptions in COBS  4.12.4. For the 
reasons Ive explained, it remains my view that the requirements for reliance  on these 
exemptions werent met and FIE and FIFS therefore werent entitled to promote to Mr C. By 
failing to act in accordance with the rules covering the promotion of UCIS, and designed  for 
the protection of consumers, I think I can only reasonably conclude FIFS (and FIE, acting as 
its AR) didnt treat Mr C fairly. This is the reason Im upholding his complaint. 
To be clear, the actions  (as Ive described  them) of either FIE or FIFS on their own are 
sufficient for the complaint to be upheld.
Putting Things  Right
Ref: DRN935342522The principal  aim of any award I make is to return Mr C to the position hed be in if FIFS and 
FIE (acting as an AR of FIFS and with its authority) hadnt promoted UCIS to him. I dont  
think its likely that Mr C would have made this investment off his own back and if FIE and 
FIFS hadnt promoted it to him, Im satisfied it wouldnt have taken place.  Further,  I dont 
think he would have  transferred his pension  benefits to the SIPP if he hadnt been  subject  to 
this sales process as the only reason  for doing so was to facilitate the use of the investment.
I appreciate FIFS and FIE werent the only regulated firms involved in the events that led to 
Mr C switching his pension benefits  and investing  in a UCIS.  But I think  any loss hes 
suffered as a result  wouldnt have happened  if these  firms hadnt approached and promoted 
to him in the first place.  On that basis, Im satisfied  its appropriate  to hold FIFS responsible  
for any loss.
As Ive said,  my aim in awarding  fair compensation is to put Mr C back  into the position  he 
would likely  have been in, but for the inappropriate actions of FIFS and FIE. If he hadnt 
been approached and promoted investments when he shouldnt have been,  I think he 
wouldnt have switched  his pension to the SIPP  and it would most likely have remained with 
AXA, invested in the same  funds as it had been  before he was contacted  by FIE.
Any loss Mr C has suffered should  be determined by obtaining  the notional  value of the 
pension from AXA on the basis  that it had remained in the same  fund(s), and subtracting  the 
current value of the SIPP from this notional value.  If the value of the SIPP is higher than the 
notional value, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
I consider the notional  value outlined above is the fairest way of resolving this complaint. But 
if AXA isnt able to calculate a notional  value, an alternative approach  will be needed. To 
compensate Mr C fairly in this situation,  FIFS should  compare the performance  of the SIPP  
with that of the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income  total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market Income total return index). This is made up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds and, in my 
view, is a reasonable proxy for the sort of returns Mr C could have  achieved  from suitable 
investments. 
Any compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Cs pension  plan. The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional reduction  to allow  for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
If Mr C hasnt yet taken  any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been  taxed according to his likely income  tax rate in retirement   
presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 28 days of the date FIFS 
receives notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to 
the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
Ref: DRN935342523decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 28 days, that it takes  FIFS to pay 
Mr C.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If FIFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
other considerations
My aim is to return Mr C to the position he would have been in but for the actions of FIFS. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid  (meaning it cant be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value  cant be determined. That appears to be the case  here.
To calculate the compensation, FIFS should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP  plus any costs,  and take ownership  
of the investment. If FIFS is unable to buy the investment, it should  give it a nil value  for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP  used in the calculations should  
include anything FIFS has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP  should be deducted.
In return for this, FIFS may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking  to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive  from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. FIFS will need to meet  any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If FIFS asks Mr C to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon  provision  of that undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP.  
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by FIFS taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr C can discuss with the SIPP  provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that FIFS pay Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent  to 
five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP  to be closed.
I note the comments of Mr Cs representative about his intention to transfer his pension  
benefits elsewhere once compensation is paid but I cant require the SIPP provider to do 
anything about  a potential exit fee as this complaint is not against that firm. Its also difficult  
to know what fees might be involved because of the potential for delay before a transfer is 
possible. Ive tried to account for this situation  by awarding Mr C five years worth  of SIPP 
fees and I think  thats a reasonable outcome  in the circumstances.
additional compensation
I think the problems  Mr C has experienced with his pension arrangements as a result of the 
actions of FIFS and its AR have  caused  him considerable  unnecessary  trouble and upset 
over a prolonged period  and that he should be compensated  for that. The precise impact of 
this situation on Mr C, and therefore the amount to award, is difficult  to assess.  But in the 
circumstances, I think  a substantial payment of £500 is fair and reasonable. FIFS would 
Ref: DRN935342524need to pay this amount direct to Mr C (not into his pension) in addition to any compensation 
calculated using the method outlined above.
compensation limits
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require FIFS to pay Mr C the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require FIFS to 
pay Mr C any interest  on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I only require FIFS to pay Mr C 
any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
If FIFS doesnt pay the recommended amount below, then any investment  currently  illiquid 
should be retained by Mr C. This is until any future  benefit that he may receive  from the 
investment together with the compensation paid by FIFS (excluding any interest)  equates to 
the full fair compensation as set out above. 
FIFS may request  an undertaking from Mr C that either he repays to it any amount he may 
receive from the investment thereafter or if possible, transfers the investment at that point. 
FIFS will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
Mr C should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension  plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
FIFS pays Mr C the balance. Id additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts my decision, the money award  would  be binding  on FIFS. My 
recommendation wouldnt be binding on FIFS. Further, its unlikely that Mr C could accept 
my decision  and go to court to ask for the balance.  He may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My Decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. 
If Mr C accepts my decision, Falcon  International  Financial Services  Ltd must  pay him 
compensation calculated using the method set out above. It should  provide him with details 
of its calculations in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Ref: DRN935342525Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN935342526Extract from Provisional  Decision:
My Provisional Findings
Weve received detailed submissions in connection with this complaint, but I havent tried to address  
every single point raised here. Ive instead concentrated on what I think are the key issues  that are 
central to the outcome. I note FIFSs representative has referred to our response  to a different case. 
Ive read that assessment carefully, but I think  its relevant to note that it was only the initial  view of 
the adjudicator  and that the case doesnt appear to have been considered by an ombudsman. In any 
event, I must  consider each case on its own individual merits  and thats what  Ive done here.
My understanding of the submissions from FIFSs representative is that its saying the transaction  that 
led to the unregulated investment was a three-stage  process involving three different businesses.
The first stage was the initial contact by FIE, who gave  no advice and discussed the benefits  
of investing in land generally and the structures that could  be used to facilitate this without 
promoting a particular investment. It also referred  potential investors to an IFA, Sovereign,  for 
advice and FIE completed a fact find with the consumer to assist it with that. FIE was a 
separate company  to FIFS, but it had been  an AR of FIFS since August 2012.
The second stage  involving Sovereign. Its role was to provide advice  on whether an 
investment was suitable  for Mr C. Sovereign  also arranged the SIPP and the switch  of Mr Cs 
pension benefits. Sovereign was a regulated business  in its own right and its not appropriate 
for me to comment on its actions here, except where this is relevant to the outcome of the 
complaint about FIFS.
The final stage was the promotion of the specific land investment  by FIFS. 
Jurisdiction
The rules I must follow  in assessing all aspects  of this complaint are set out in the Dispute Resolution  
(DISP) rules, published as part of the FCA Handbook. The DISP  rules also set out the framework for 
determining what complaints I can and cant consider.
In terms of Mr Cs case, Im satisfied hes an eligible complainant, that we have territorial  jurisdiction, 
and that he complained within  the time limits set out in the DISP  rules. Another  point that needs to be 
addressed is whether the complaint relates to an activity  we cover. Under DISP 2.3.1, we can only 
consider a complaint  under  our compulsory  jurisdiction if it relates to:
an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on one or more  of the listed activities, which  includes 
regulated activities;  or
any ancillary activities carried on by a firm in connection with those  activities.
Based on the process  as described  by FIFS representative, this complaint  involves the actions of two 
firms, FIE and FIFS. This complaint is against FIFS, which was directly authorised  and I dont  think 
theres any grounds for disputing that its responsible for its own actions. At the time Mr Cs 
investment was made, FIE was a separate firm but it was also an AR of FIFS. To determine whether I 
can consider  the actions  of FIE as part of the complaint, I must decide  whether  FIFS can be held 
responsible for the alleged  actions  of its AR.
DISP 2.3.3 says:
Complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which  the firm 
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firm... has accepted  responsibility).
Ref: DRN935342527So the issue  of whether  FIFS (the principal firm) is responsible for the alleged actions of FIE (its AR) 
involves a three stage test:
 
step 1 - identify the specific acts complained of;
step 2 - consider whether those acts are regulated  activities or ancillary thereto; and 
step 3 - consider whether the principal  firm was responsible for those activities by reason  of 
section 39 of FSMA,  agency or vicarious liability.   
What are the acts complained of?
In his complaint  form, Mr C said his investment was mis-sold. The overall process of selling the 
investment incorporated a number  of different activities, including promoting  the investment, advising 
on it, and arranging it. Some of these activities were carried out by FIE and FIFS. While FIFSs 
representative believes the complaint is solely about advice given to Mr C, I think thats too narrow  an 
interpretation. Because the complaint incorporates  a much wider range  of issues, I dont accept that 
my consideration should be restricted to the issue of advice.
Are these acts regulated  activities or ancillary  to regulated activities?
Regulated activities  are specified in the RAO. Along with other investors, Mr C invested in plots of 
land with a view to planning  permission being obtained in the future  when the land could be sold at a 
profit. It seems  to be accepted the scheme is a UCIS. Units in a collective investment scheme  (CIS) 
are specified  as investments  (article  82).
Based on my understanding  of the submissions  from FIFS representative, its accepted that it carried 
out various regulated activities set out in the RAO in connection with Mr Cs investment. These 
include establishing and operating a CIS (article  51), arranging deals in investments  (article 25), and 
agreeing to arrange deals in investments (article 64). 
The activity of arranging deals  in investments is defined as:
(1) Making arrangements  for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite  a particular investment which is
(a) a security,
(b) a contractually based investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified  by article  86, or article 89 so far as relevant  to 
that article,
is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the arrangements 
buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting  investments falling  within  paragraph (1)(a), (b) 
or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also a specified kind of activity.
I think  the evidence also shows FIE was also involved  in the regulated activity of arranging 
investments. For example, FIFS  provided us with copies  of letters  from FIE to Mr C dated  11 
December 2013 and 8 January 2014,  in which  it enclosed  share  certificates for his land purchase and 
confirmed the relevant  funds had been transferred  to the management  companys bank  account.
The submissions from its representative also confirm FIFS was involved in promoting its UCIS 
investment to Mr C, once Sovereign  had completed its part of the process. By contacting Mr C 
initially, I think  FIE was also engaged  in this activity  and Ill say more  about  that later on in this 
decision. The FCA defines  a financial promotion simply as: 
an invitation or inducement  to engage in investment activity  . . . that is communicated  in the 
course of business
Ref: DRN935342528While promoting investments isnt specifically  listed in the RAO  as a regulated activity, Im satisfied it 
was essentially part of and/or ancillary  to the activities  or arranging and agreeing to arrange 
investments that FIFS and FIE were involved  in. I think this view is supported by section 8.23.2  of the 
Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG), which says:
 
Anyone who is carrying on a regulated activity is likely to make  financial promotions in the 
course of or for the purposes of carrying  on that activity. 
As an ancillary activity to that of arranging  Mr Cs investment,  Im satisfied a complaint  about 
promoting it by either FIE or FIFS is within  our jurisdiction  to consider as set out in DISP 2.3.1.
Is FIFS responsible for the acts of FIE by reason of section 39 of FSMA, agency or vicarious  liability?
DISP 2.3.3 says:
complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility). 
So, a principal  is answerable  for complaints  about the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to the 
business it has accepted responsibility  for.
On the subject of appointed representatives,  at the relevant time, section 39 of FSMA  said:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised  person)  
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which -
(i)permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii)complies  with such requirements as may be prescribed,  and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.  
So, under section  39, the principal is required  to accept responsibility for that business,  which is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description. However, the case  of Anderson  v Sense 
Network (2018) makes it clear the words part of in section 39 allow a principal firm to accept 
responsibility for only part of the generic business of a prescribed description. In other words, FIFS  
was entitled to appoint FIE as a representative and limit the scope of the regulated activities it could  
carry out and that it would be responsible for.
Further clarification on this point was provided by the appeal judgement in the Anderson v Sense 
case, which  set out that only restrictions on what  generic business could  be conducted would  limit 
the principals  responsibility. In contrast,  restrictions on how that business is to be conducted dont 
limit a principals  responsibility under section 39. In other words,  a principal cant avoid responsibility 
for activities it authorised  an AR to carry out just because those activities werent carried out in the 
way it wanted them to be. 
Ref: DRN935342529In terms of the acts of FIE being complained about here, the above means  FIFS is responsible  for 
them if they include acts for which it accepted responsibility under section 39 of FSMA.
The AR agreement set out the terms of the arrangement between FIFS and FIE. This document is 
very brief and the only reference to what FIE (and therefore its employees) was authorised to do is in 
sections 2 and 3, which  said:
2. The appointment is made in accordance  with the rules of the Financial Services Authority  
(FSA) and authorises the Representative to make arrangements enabling clients to enter into 
agreements with the Principal for financial  business in the categories for which the Principal is 
authorised.
3. The Representative shall carry on financial  business  solely through  the Principal in 
accordance with the rules of FSA and the Principals compliance manual. The Principal 
hereby accepts responsibility  for the financial  business conducted by the Representative 
pursuant to this agreement.
So, FIFS  authorised FIE to make arrangements to enable  clients to enter into agreements with FIFS 
for business in the categories  for which it was authorised. And I think its clear this is what FIE was 
doing when it initially contacted Mr C, spoke to him about investing, completed a fact find, and then 
referred him to an IFA. The process as described  by FIFSs representative is that FIEs  role was to 
find and introduce clients for its UCIS investments.  It wasnt  finding and introducing clients for 
Sovereigns IFA business, it was actually arranging  for those clients to be reviewed by the IFA with a 
view to them  investing in a UCIS with FIFS.
conclusions on jurisdiction
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied FIFS was engaged  in various regulated activities 
involved in operating, promoting and arranging  Mr Cs investment. I also believe FIE was engaged in 
the regulated  activity of arranging  and promoting investments.  Further, Im satisfied these  were 
activities FIE was authorised to carry out under the terms of its AR agreement  with FIFS and that 
FIFS is therefore  responsible for its acts.
Merits
As Ive already said, Im satisfied both FIE and FIFS  were involved in the activity of promoting 
investments and that this was ancillary to the regulated activities of arranging and agreeing to arrange  
investments. There were rules covering the promotion  of UCIS at the time Mr C invested.  The starting 
point in section 238 of FSMA was that:
An authorised person must  not communicate an invitation or inducement to participate in a 
collective investment  scheme.
The CIS Exemptions Order sets out circumstances  where this restriction doesnt apply and FIFSs 
representative has referred  specifically  to article  13, which says:
The scheme  promotion restriction does not apply  to any communication which:
(a) does  not relate to units of a particular  unregulated  scheme  identified (directly or indirectly) 
in the communication; and
(b) does  not identify  (directly or indirectly) any person who operates  a collective investment 
scheme or sells units.
Ive considered this point  carefully, but I dont think I could reasonably conclude this exception applies 
here in respect of the actions of either FIE or FIFS. Even if Mr Cs recollections  arent  correct and FIE 
didnt discuss the particular scheme in the New Forest,  the whole  process  described by FIFSs 
Ref: DRN935342530representative was designed  to end with an investment in one of its schemes. So I dont think  its 
reasonable to believe FIE didnt (either directly or indirectly) identify FIFS  as the eventual scheme  
operator. In terms of FIFS actions after Sovereign  had completed its part of the process, it clearly 
was promoting its own scheme  and this exception wouldnt therefore  apply.
There were  other exceptions to the general  prohibition  on promoting particular UCIS.  At the time of Mr 
Cs investment,  section 4.12.1 of The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) set out that:
(1)A firm may communicate  an invitation or inducement  to participate in an unregulated 
collective investment  scheme  without  breaching  the restriction on promotion in section 
238 of the Act if the promotion falls within an exemption in the table in (4), as explained 
further in the Notes.
(2)Where the left-hand  column in the table in (4) refers to promotion  to a category of person, 
this means that the invitation  or inducement:
(a)is made only to recipients who the firm has taken reasonable steps to establish 
are persons  in that category; or
(b)is directed at recipients  in a way that may reasonably be regarded as designed to 
reduce, so far as possible, the risk of participation in the collective investment 
scheme by persons who are not in that category.
The table referred to set out various categories of client to whom  it was acceptable  to promote UCIS.  
Ive reviewed this carefully and the only categories that I think could  potentially apply  here are 2, 7 
and 8 and Ive considered  each of these carefully.
A category  7 person was defined as:
An eligible counterparty  or a professional client.
The definition  of a professional client  included  elective professional clients.  To have been 
appropriately considered and treated as an elective professional client,  all three of the criteria set out 
in COBS 3.5.3 would have  needed to be satisfied. This said:
Elective professional clients
A firm may treat a client other than a local public authority or municipality  as an elective 
professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and, where applicable,  (2):
(1)the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making  his own 
investment decisions and understanding the risks involved (the "qualitative  test");
(2)in relation to MiFID  or equivalent third country business  in the course  of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
(a) the client  has carried  out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant  market at 
an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters;
(b) the size of the clients  financial instrument portfolio, defined as including cash 
deposits and financial  instruments, exceeds  EUR 500,000;
(c) the client  works  or has worked in the financial  sector for at least  one year in a 
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services 
envisaged;
Ref: DRN935342531(the "quantitative test"); and
(3)the following procedure  is followed:
(a) the client  must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as 
a professional client either generally  or in respect of a particular service or transaction  
or type of transaction  or product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written  warning  of the protections  and investor 
compensation rights  the client  may lose; and
(c)  the client  must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is 
aware of the consequences  of losing  such protections.
This specifically says a firm could treat an investor as an elective professional  client if it complied 
with the relevant requirements. My interpretation of this is that the firm involved in promoting  UCIS 
needs to follow the appropriate steps itself. I think this interpretation is illustrated in the context of the 
third point above. This says a client must  state  in writing to the firm  which, when  read in the context 
of the rest of the rule, I think can only reasonably be interpreted as referring to the firm promoting  
UCIS  that he/she wants to be treated as a professional  client. I think the same could be said of the 
requirements for the firm  again, the firm promoting the UCIS  to provide a clear written warning of 
the protections being given up and to obtain confirmation  of the clients understanding  of this.
FIFSs representative has not suggested that either FIE or FIFS took the steps set out in COBS 3.5.3 
that meant Mr C could have been treated as an elective  professional client. And Ive found  nothing  
else in the evidence provided  to indicate it did either. That means  neither firm could rely on this 
exclusion to promote  UCIS  to him.
A category  8 person was defined as:
A person :
(1)in relation to whom  the firm has undertaken an adequate assessment of his expertise, 
experience and knowledge and that assessment  gives reasonable  assurance, in light of 
the nature of the transactions or services envisaged, that the person is capable  of making 
his own investment  decisions and understanding the risks involved;
(2)to whom the firm has given a clear  written warning that this will enable the firm to 
promote unregulated collective  investment schemes to the client;  and
(3)who has stated in writing,  in a document separate from the contract, that he is aware of 
the fact the firm can promote certain unregulated  collective investment schemes to him.
Again, I think  the wording  of the rule means the steps described had to be taken by the firm, so FIE or 
FIFS, before promoting UCIS to Mr C. Theres nothing in the description of the process  by FIFS  
representative or the other evidence  provided that I believe shows either firm carried  out an 
assessment of Mr Cs expertise, experience and knowledge, or that they gave the necessary written 
warning or obtained a separate statement from him. So again, that means neither FIFS  or FIE could 
rely on this exclusion to promote  UCIS  to him.
Finally, a Category 2 person was defined  as:
A person :
(b)for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the collective 
investment scheme is suitable; and
Ref: DRN935342532(c)who is an established or newly  accepted client of the firm or of a person in the 
same group  as the firm (see Notes  2 & 3).
To legitimately promote UCIS to Mr C under this particular exemption, the firm doing the promotion  
would have first needed  to take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that such  an investment was suitable  
for him. 
In terms of FIE, Ive seen no evidence to indicate that it carried  out such  an assessment before 
contacting Mr C to promote  UCIS.  The description of the process by FIFSs representative  is 
consistent with this interpretation and seems to accept there  was no consideration of suitability before 
Mr C was referred to Sovereign, by which time Im satisfied promotion  had already taken place. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think FIE was entitled  to rely on this exemption.
For FIFS, theres also nothing  in the process described by its representative or the other evidence  Ive 
seen to indicate  it carried  out a suitability  assessment.  Instead, it seems to have relied  on this having 
been done by Sovereign at the previous  stage  of the process.
In my view,  the wording  of this category is less clear than the others Ive considered in saying  that the 
firm promoting the investment must assess suitability  itself. Instead, it says the firm must  take 
reasonable steps  to ensure  the scheme being promoted is suitable and FIFS might want to argue  that 
includes accepting  the word of an IFA that has completed its own assessment.
The circumstances in which its appropriate  for one firm to rely on information provided by another  
which in this case would be information from Sovereign  that FIFSs UCIS investments were suitable  
for Mr C - is addressed in COBS 2.4. In my view, the relevant sections are COBS 2.4.6 to 2.4.8. I 
dont think COBS  2.4.4 applies as that specifically refers to a firm receiving an instruction from 
another, which wasnt the situation here. At the time Mr C invested, the rules said:
Reliance on others: other situations
COBS 2.4.6
(1) This rule applies if the rule on reliance on other investment firms (COBS 2.4.4 R) does not 
apply.
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that requires it to 
obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on information  
provided to it in writing  by another person.
COBS 2.4.7 
(1) In relying on COBS 2.4.6 R, a firm should take reasonable steps to establish  that the 
other person providing written information is not connected with the firm and is competent to 
provide the information.
(2) Compliance with (1) may be relied  upon as tending to establish compliance with COBS 
2.4.6 R.
(3) Contravention of (1) may be relied upon as tending to establish contravention  of COBS 
2.4.6 R.
COBS 2.4.8
 
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely on 
information provided  to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a professional  
firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware  of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds  to question  the accuracy of that information.
Ref: DRN935342533So, for FIFS to rely on information  provided by Sovereign, the rules  required it was reasonable for it to 
do so. In considering this point,  I think  its appropriate to refer to the FCAs  Principles for Businesses.  
The Principles, which are set out in the FCAs handbook, were a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G).  Principles 2, 3 and 6 
said:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct  its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate  risk management systems
Principle 6  Clients  interests   A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its clients and 
treat them fairly.
In R (British  Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC  999 (Admin)  Ouseley J 
said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules  
are added. The Principles  always have to be complied with. The Specific  rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They  are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion  that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles  is inappropriate.  It cannot  be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory  duty for the Ombudsman to reach  a 
view on a case  without taking the Principles into account  in deciding what  would  be fair and 
reasonable and what redress to afford.  Even if no Principles had been  produced by the FSA, 
the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular  statutory  duty without having  regard to the sort 
of high level Principles which  find expression  in the Principles, whoever formulated them.  
They are of the essence  of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their 
relationship to specific rules.
Subsequently Jacobs J at paragraph 104 in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP  Administration Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service  having set out some paragraphs  of the British  Banking Association judgment, 
including paragraph  162 set out above, said;
These passages explain  the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly  
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater  for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were  
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation  
described by Ouseley J. was precisely  not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible 
circumstances, but instead to impose  general  duties such as those  set out in Principles 2 and 
6.
So, the Principles have a wide application,  and I need to have regard to them  when deciding  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transaction promoted  to Mr C essentially involved moving his pension  funds to an unregulated,  
high-risk, investment that presented the possibility he could lose most or all of his money, thereby 
putting him at significant risk of detriment. In the circumstances, I dont think  it was consistent with the 
Principles for FIFS to simply accept Sovereigns word that this proposition was suitable without at 
least seeing evidence  to demonstrate  this was the case. Failure  to obtain sufficient evidence before 
promoting UCIS was in my view contrary to the Principles  requiring  FIFS to act with appropriate care 
Ref: DRN935342534and diligence,  to organise and control its affairs  responsibly and to have due regard to his interests.  In 
short, I dont think it would have been treating Mr C fairly.
At this stage, its not clear  what evidence FIFS obtained from Sovereign at the time to make sure it 
was satisfied  the investments it was promoting were suitable for Mr C. But in connection  with this 
complaint, it has provided some of Sovereigns  documentation, including  a fact find and risk profiling  
questionnaire. Ive reviewed  these documents carefully to consider whether it would have been 
reasonable for FIFS to determine its UCIS was suitable for him before promoting  it.
The fact find records that Mr C was a self-employed  property developer/landlord earning £100,000 
per year and, in addition to his main residence, on which there  was an outstanding  mortgage, he 
owned two rental properties worth between £60,000 and £100,000 each. The fact find also records 
that he had a share portfolio  worth £30,000 in which he traded monthly. It was noted  that he had a 
good degree of investment  experience and that hed generated his share portfolio from an initial 
investment of £5,000.
The fact find wasnt signed by Mr C, so its not clear he saw it or agreed with the contents. And in 
contrast to what was recorded, he told our adjudicator he was actually earning £30,000 per year and 
had no other  savings or investments. He also said he had no investment experience, other than the 
two buy-to-let properties,  and that the money switched to his Avalon SIPP was the only pension 
savings he had.
The land investment wasnt held in a well-diversified  selection  of equities and other assets. It invested 
solely in plots of land at a single site. Further,  it was an unregulated investment that meant Mr C 
couldnt fall back on the protection  offered  by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme  (FSCS) if 
things went wrong. This was a high-risk, specialised  investment of the type the industry regulator had 
said shouldnt be promoted  to unsophisticated retail investors. In addition, and aside from any 
disagreement about the contents of the fact find, Mr C was investing a considerable sum of money  
that accounted  for most of his pension benefits. This was a very different proposition  to investing a 
modest amount in shares and trading  them with a view to achieving growth, which Mr C denies  having  
done anyway.
FIFS has also provided  a copy of a risk profiling questionnaire that appears to have been completed 
at the time of sale. This included a number of statements  for respondents to say whether they 
strongly disagree, disagree, neither agree  nor disagree, agree or strongly agree , with each answer 
attributed a points score.  The scoring  section hasnt been completed,  but adding the points for the 
recorded answers, it looks like Mr Cs attitude to risk was assessed as eight on a scale of one to ten, 
where ten was the most speculative. The questionnaire  also records he was looking to invest for 10 or 
more years and that large losses  would  have a low impact  on his future  lifestyle.
Like the fact find, the risk profiler wasnt signed by Mr C either.  So again, its not clear he saw or 
agreed with the contents. If correct, the recorded answers indicate Mr C was willing to accept some 
risk. For example,  it was recorded he agreed with statements  such as:
I would be willing to risk a percentage of my income/capital in order to get a good return on an 
investment;
I would accept potential losses in order  to pursue  long-term investment growth; and
I would be happy investing a large  proportion  of my income/capital in a high-risk investment.
But I think its worth noting that there  was the opportunity for Mr C to strongly agree (or strongly 
disagree)  with any of the statements in the questionnaire  but he didnt do so. While the recorded 
answers suggest  he was willing to expose his capital  to some risk, I dont think  they show he was 
willing to accept a particularly high degree of risk in exchange for a potentially higher  return. 
Ref: DRN935342535I think  Mr Cs recollection  of his circumstances and the fact the documents arent  signed  throw 
significant doubt on their accuracy.  But even if the contents are accepted as accurate, I dont  think  the 
fact he was recorded  as having built a comparatively small share portfolio shows he was a particularly 
knowledgeable or experienced investor and certainly not in terms of the investment FIFS  promoted to 
him. It may have been the case that Mr C was willing  to take some risk with his money, but I dont 
think the documentation provided demonstrates  it was appropriate  to advise  him to make an 
unregulated, high-risk,  specialised investment.
So if FIFS  had obtained this information from Sovereign at the time,  as I think it ought  to have done to 
comply with the Principles, I dont think it could reasonably have concluded that it was entitled to 
promote UCIS  to Mr C.
Taking everything into account, I dont  think  it was reasonable for either  FIE or FIFS to consider that 
any of the exclusions covering the promotion of UCIS applied in Mr Cs case. So I think  I can only 
reasonably conclude that both firms should  have concluded they couldnt  promote to him and 
refrained from doing  so. Its for this reason that Im proposing to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN9353425