K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S through their solicitor K complain that Allianz Insurance  Plc unfairly  and 
unreasonably declined their claim under a legal  expenses  insurance policy. They want their 
legal fees repaid.
background
Mr S had a legal expenses insurance  policy with Allianz, taken out through a broker on 10 
July 2017, which also gave cover to Mrs S as his spouse. Mrs S wanted to bring an 
employment claim for disability discrimination in August and October  2017,  and made  a 
claim under the policy.
Allianz declined  the claim.  It said that Mrs S was aware of the dispute  before the policy was 
taken out  it noted that Mrs S had said that she first knew  of the dispute from 3 October 
2016 (if not earlier when  she was first signed off work).  This was because  Mrs S said that 
she had been  unwell  due to bullying in the workplace. Allianz said that the terms and 
conditions of the policy excluded claims of which Mrs S was aware of or shouldve been 
aware of before the policy started. 
Another claim was made in June 2018, and additional  claims  of unfair dismissal, and unpaid 
holiday pay were added. Allianz  again  declined the claim  and noted that its in-house solicitor 
was of the view that Mrs S claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success, which meant  
that the policy didnt offer cover for this reason either. Allianz reiterated that the claim pre-
dated the policy, despite the fact that Mrs S was dismissed  during  the policy period, as the 
underlying events started much earlier. K disputed Allianzs view,  and sent evidence  that the 
first complaint by Mrs S about  bullying was made  in March 2016.
K said that Mrs S then contacted her previous legal expenses insurer  who accepted  liability  
from 31 July 2018  onwards,  but refused to accept liability for any legal  costs  incurred before 
this date due to the terms and conditions of its policy.
K complained that Allianz was incorrect to decline the claim. She said that the other insurer 
accepted the claim so it mustve had reasonable prospects of success. K also said that 
Allianz was incorrect to say the claim pre-existed  the policy as Mrs Ss claim included unfair 
dismissal and when  the policy was taken  out, she wasnt  threatened with dismissal. K 
thought Allianz  should pay the costs  not covered by the other insurer. 
K complained to this service. Allianz  said that it hadnt received a formal complaint and 
prepared a final response letter. It said that Mrs S had been off work for about nine months 
before the policy was started, and there was no sign of resolution of her dispute with her 
employer. This was why it believed that the claim pre-dated the policy  and wasnt  covered, 
and said that the later information from K about the bullying showed that the event, cause or 
circumstances of the dispute  was known to Mrs S as early as March 2016.
The investigators view was that Allianz wasnt at fault. She said that the other insurer  had 
accepted that the claim arose  when  Mr and Mrs S were insured with it, which  showed  that 
Allianz had acted fairly in declining the claim on this basis.  And the investigator thought that 
the legal  opinion obtained by Allianz was just an opinion,  and lawyers  could reasonably  
reach different conclusions. She didnt think that it was unreasonable  for Allianz to rely on it.
Ref: DRN94665402K disagreed, but didnt say why. It couldnt  understand why this service had taken so long to 
express a view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Allianz has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions  of the policy make it clear  if the event, cause or circumstances of 
the claim pre-date the start of the policy, it isnt covered. While Mrs S wasnt  dismissed until 
after the policy started,  she was dismissed  due to her ill-health (which she says was caused  
by bullying  at work)  her ill-health and the alleged bullying  started a long time before the 
policy was in place.  And I note that Mrs S also wanted to bring discrimination claims related 
to the same  issue. Im satisfied that as the Allianz policy was one that requires the 
underlying cause and the reporting of the claim to happen within  the period of when the 
policy is in place, it was fair and reasonable for it to decline  the claim.
But what  happens in cases  such as Mrs S when the cause and the claim occur in different 
policy years? Often, theres  an insurer who has covered the period when the claim (or event, 
cause or circumstances)  arose  thats  the case here. And I understand that the earlier  
insurer accepted  the claim for legal expenses cover. Normally, only one insurer  would cover 
one claim.  So I dont think Allianz  has acted unfairly or unreasonably as it wasnt  the insurer 
responsible for the claim. It also isnt responsible for the actions of other insurers.
K complained about the legal opinion relied upon by Allianz. But in any event,  this issue  is 
irrelevant as another insurer  accepted  the claim.  Generally though, its fair and reasonable 
for an insurer to rely on an opinion  from a suitably qualified lawyer (who  can only rely on the 
evidence available  to her), provided that theres nothing  that would put a layman on notice 
that theres something  wrong with that opinion. The policy requires any claim to have 
reasonable prospects of success, which is reasonable   no-one would reasonably wish to 
fund a weak claim. 
In this case, the opinion  is from a suitably qualified lawyer, and its both detailed  and 
reasoned. It sets out the relevant legal tests  and explains why there were difficulties with 
Mrs S claim. Indeed,  I note that in relation to the holiday pay claim,  the in-house  solicitor  
was correct  Mrs S had to withdraw that claim.  I cant uphold  the complaint  in relation to the 
assessment about  whether the claim had reasonable prospects of success.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9466540