K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc sent him misleading credit card statements and did 
not carry out his instructions to send  him paper statements.
background
Mr T has a credit  card with HSBC.  He complained about two issues:
His statements indicated that interest would be charged on a balance  transfer, but no 
interest was actually being charged. This meant that the statements were misleading.
When he repeatedly  tried to use online banking to change his preferences  to send 
paper statements  by post, instead  of online statements, his preferences  were not 
saved.
HSBC apologised  for these issues and paid £50 to Mr T and another £50  later increased  to 
£100  to a charity of his choice. It updated his preferences for him and sent him paper 
statements (the difficulty  had been  due to a software  fault).  It later explained that the balance 
transfer had occurred during an interest-free period,  and that period had come to an end, but 
due to an error in Mr Ts favour interest had still not been charged on the transfer.  HSBC  
agreed not to seek payment of the interest  which should  have been  charged up to that point.
Mr T brought  this complaint to our Service, but our adjudicator did not uphold  it. She said 
that £150 was fair compensation for the failure to send paper statements,  which  had now 
been resolved.  Mr T had benefited from the other  error, in that he had not been  charged 
interest when he should  have been.  So she did not think  that HSBC should  have to do 
anything more.
Mr T was not satisfied with that decision. In a series of 14 emails to the adjudicator, he said 
he could not understand how a customer could benefit from receiving misleading 
statements. He questioned HSBCs right to charge him interest,  and asked how HSBC had 
arrived at the interest rate it had. He said that changing his own preferences to sending 
statements by post did not resolve the underlying fault, and other HSBC customers  could still 
be affected. He added that HSBC  had not really  sent the £100 to charity  instead  he had 
paid the charity himself,  and then HSBC had reimbursed him. He asked for an ombudsmans  
decision, and suggested that his charity should  be paid another £270.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The reason  HSBCs system would not accept Mr Ts instruction to send his statements by 
post was because this preference was overridden by his marketing preferences.  The 
software did not allow for conflicting choices, so it was not possible to choose paper 
statements while the setting for marketing material remained set at online only. This matter  
has now been rectified as far as Mr Ts account  is concerned. I understand his concern for 
HSBCs other customers, but my remit is to consider his account only. Wider issues  are a 
matter for the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority.
I think that £150 is fair compensation  for that issue. I am satisfied that this compensation has 
been paid. HSBC was unable to send money  to Mr Ts nominated charity directly from its 
own accounts, so instead it paid all of the money into Mr Ts account, and then (with his 
Ref: DRN96736802permission) paid £100  from his account  to the charity. The outcome is the same either way, 
and so I will not consider  this point further.
I agree  with Mr T that he has not benefited from receiving misleading credit  card statements. 
But he has benefited  from not paying  interest when he was supposed to be. The interest-free 
period on his balance transfer ended on 25 January 2018, or at least  it was meant to. Due to 
an error, the interest  he was supposed to be incurring  was not charged to his account, 
although the interest rate did still appear  on his statements. HSBC  has said,  and I accept, 
that it will not pursue  Mr T for the unpaid interest (although  he will incur interest in future, 
now that the error has been detected). Therefore, although HSBC  made  an error, this error  
has not cost Mr T any money   rather,  he has gained by having a longer interest-free period 
than expected.
Mr T has questioned how the interest rate was calculated. That was not part of his original 
complaint but is a new point. He should ask HSBC, and HSBC is entitled  to eight weeks  to 
answer him.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9673680