K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Societys admission of an error in 2016 means they 
should never have  approached a court in 2012  to get a charging order  placed on his 
property. Mr A also says Nationwide stopped sending him statements, so hes unable  to see 
the reduction in the debt he owes them.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I did not propose  to 
uphold the complaint.
I invited Mr A and Nationwide to let me have any final comments and evidence  before 
making my final decision. Nationwide accepted  my provisional decision but Mr A did not. In 
summary, Mr A said:
he does not see that the charging  order or the arrears on his account have anything  
to do with his case;
Nationwide has not sent statements or a breakdown of the interest  and charges;
Nationwide are withholding evidence and are ignorant of the laws; and
the telephone records we have  are inaccurate.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, whilst I realise this isnt 
the answer Mr A was hoping for  Ive reached the same overall conclusion as I did in my 
provisional decision, for much the same  reasons.
The relevance of the charging order and the arrears
Mr A bought his case to us because he says Nationwide didnt treat him properly. He says 
Nationwide failed to send him up to date statements and failed to follow  the regulations. His 
evidence of this is that Nationwide  made a mistake  with the interest charged to his loan 
account between  2008 and 2014.
I think it was necessary to look at what Nationwide did to correct the mistakes they made in 
the letters they sent to Mr A. Ive seen,  from looking at the statements from the loan account 
that Nationwide have refunded the interest and charges they said they would. I also 
concluded that Nationwide are treating Mr A fairly  by looking at what  he can afford  to repay  
towards the arrears  of the loan account.
So, I think that looking at the arrears of Mr As account and Nationwides  actions around the 
charging order was necessary  in this case.  I think Nationwide  did acknowledge the mistakes 
they made in the wording of the letters they sent to Mr A. But, I also think  that they have 
treated Mr A fairly when they corrected their mistake. 
Sending statements to Mr A.
Ref: DRN97584732Nationwide have explained that due to their own error, they didnt send loan account 
statements to Mr A for around  three  years. They have also said that they have changed  their 
records, so that they will be sent in the future. 
I think this explanation is satisfactory  and Ive considered the impact  on Mr A. I still think that 
other letters and his discussions with Nationwide during  those three years show that Mr A 
was made  aware  of the loan account balance. So, I dont think the impact of this error on   
Mr A means he should be paid compensation for Nationwides  mistake.
Mr A has provided his own breakdown of the interest charged to his loan account. I agree 
that Mr A has not had the benefit  of the loan account statements, like we have, in our 
investigation. But, I disagree with his calculations.  I can see from the statements  that Mr As 
loan account entered  into arrears in and around August 2009. After  considering  all the 
interest and charges applied since that date,  I think Nationwide have applied the correct  
refund to Mr As loan account
I know that Mr A may remain sceptical of amount of Nationwides refund. So, I remind 
Nationwide that they have  a duty to provide  Mr A with information about his loan account  if 
he asks them, as well as providing regular statements.
Withholding evidence and ignorance  of the laws
We have asked Nationwide for their records to show the telephone discussions they had 
with Mr A, various letters they sent to him about  the interest refund and the statements for 
the loan account. I dont  think  that Nationwide have withheld any documents  that we have 
asked for.
I acknowledge that Mr A says there was some  confusion  when Nationwide investigated a 
complaint in February 2015. But, I dont think the way Nationwide  handled this investigation 
has had an impact on the way they have ran his account. I think  the letters  from February to 
April 2015 were to do with his previous complaint. 
Nationwide didnt became aware of the need  to look at the interest charged to Mr As loan 
account until January  2016. I dont think Nationwide knew  about  their mistake in 2008, so I 
think they told Mr A about what  had happened,  when  they found  out themselves. 
Mr A may be looking for Nationwide to be punished for their mistake,  but that is not the role 
of this service. Our role is to try and put a customer back  in the position they were in, had the 
mistake not happened. I think the refund is an acknowledgement by Nationwide  that they did 
make a mistake within the arrears  letters they sent to their customers from 2008 to 2014.  So, 
I dont think the need  to make any further  acknowledgement to Mr A.
The telephone records provided to us by Nationwide
My decision  is based  upon  what Mr A and Nationwide have told us and the information  
weve been given  by both sides. Mr A has explained  that Nationwides  telephone records are 
inaccurate because  they dont  reveal the true conversations that took place about his 
repayment plan.  
Ref: DRN97584733I accept that the notes  made by Nationwide  may not include everything said during  a call. 
The arrangements  made  are confirmed in the actual payments made by Mr A after each  call. 
So, I do think they capture  the key part of the conversations  surrounding the details of a 
repayment plan.  And I think  these  conversations  have happened regularly. 
Taking into consideration all of the circumstances, I think Nationwide have treated Mr A fairly 
by accepting a monthly  repayment amount and reviewing the plan frequently in case Mr As 
financial position changes.
my final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in more details in my provisional decision, my 
final decision  is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97584734copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide  Building Societys admission of an error in 2016 means  they should  
never have  approached a court in 2012  to get a charging  order placed on his property. Mr A also says 
Nationwide stopped sending him statements, so hes unable to see the reduction in the debt he owes 
them.
background
In March 2007, Mr A took out a personal  loan with Nationwide. After  a couple of years of 
making repayments,  Mr A faced some financial  difficulties and his loan went  into arrears. 
Nationwide agreed to accept lower repayments to help Mr A as a short term measure, but he 
was unable to make  up the arrears.
Some years  later,  in 2012, Nationwide  took action through a court and were allowed to place 
a charging order  against  Mr As property.  This meant that should  Mr A sell his home, the loan 
would be repaid  from the proceeds.
Mr A wasnt happy  about  this and we considered  a complaint for him in 2015.  We decided 
that we didnt have the power to overturn the courts decision and that Nationwide hadnt  
made any mistakes with the transactions  for the loan account.
A short time later, in January 2016, Nationwide  wrote to Mr A and told him theyd made  an 
error by charging him interest whilst his loan account was in arrears.  
Nationwide apologised and refunded £2,276.12 in interest and charges  back  to the loan to 
reduce the outstanding  balance. Nationwide  also removed the charging order from Mr As 
property and continued to accept the lower  repayments he was making because  there was 
still a balance outstanding after the refund.
Mr A complained to Nationwide in October 2017 because he felt their error meant they should 
never have  approached the court for a charging  order. In their final response,  Nationwide said 
that theyd  acted correctly with the charging  order, given  what  they knew  at the time. 
Nationwide also confirmed the repayment plan Mr A had arranged and that by removing the 
charging order and making  the refund, theyd taken  the necessary  steps.
Because Mr A wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, he brought  his complaint  to us. 
Our investigator found that we couldnt review the events leading up to the charging  order in 
2012 because wed already commented on that in the previous  complaint. She also said that 
Nationwide had corrected their systems and that theyd send Mr A an annual  statement for his 
loan account.
Mr A disagreed  with the investigator and sent us some further documents showing the action 
Nationwide took to recover the outstanding arrears.  The investigator didnt  think she could 
change her conclusions, so Mr A has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on 
his case.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In doing so, Im intending to reach  the same conclusion as the investigator,  but for slightly different 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN97584735Its been  over a year since  Mr A brought his case to us and Im aware  of the difficult  personal 
circumstances hes told us about. I sympathise with his position and appreciate the effort hes made  
to provide evidence for his case.
the charging  order in 2012
Mr A says that due to the refund of interest to his loan account in 2016,  it means Nationwide should  
not have sort a charging order over his home through the courts. We have already decided  that we 
dont have the power to overturn the courts decision. So, we cannot  review  that again in this 
complaint.
Whilst Ive taken into consideration Mr As further comments, I dont think  the refund of interest and 
charges changes things. In 2012, Mr As loan account was in arrears  and he didnt make up the 
repayments. And Mr A wasnt able to make  up the arrears when the refund was made  in 2016. So, I 
think it is likely that Nationwide  would  have always  looked to taken action over the outstanding  debt 
Mr A owed to them.
Nationwides actions in 2016  to correct their error
Its correct that Mr As loan account was in arrears,  so its reasonable  that Nationwide wrote to him 
asking for repayment. However, Nationwides error was that they used some incorrect wording  in 
some of the letters they sent to Mr A between 2008 and 2014. So, I think the way Nationwide told Mr 
A about the arrears  was incorrect,  but the reason why they asked him for repayment was justified.
We can look at what Nationwide has done  to correct their error when they discovered they should not 
have charged  interest to Mr As loan account. This happened after we made a decision on Mr As 
complaint in 2015, so I think it is a new event.
Our investigator didnt consider the withdrawal  of the charging order as part of her conclusions. But, I 
think we should let Mr A know  our findings about what Nationwide did to put matters right.
In August 2016, Nationwide told Mr A that he was no longer legally obliged  to repay  the outstanding 
debt after they had refunded the interest and charges to the loan account. Nationwide also confirmed 
that they would follow Mr As wish to apply to the County Court to have the charging order removed 
from his property. 
I have considered the letters  Nationwide sent to Mr A and the County Court in 2016 and I think  they 
took action to correct their error. So, I think Nationwide acted fairly towards  Mr A. I dont think 
Nationwide should do any more than they have done already, other than make  sure he is able to 
afford to make repayments.
the repayment plan
Mr A says that Nationwide have shown neglect and carelessness over the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
He also says Nationwides actions have caused him and his family grief and stress. Ive looked  at the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer  Credit Sourcebook and The Lending Standards 
Boards (LSB) Standards for Lending Practice. Ive done this because Nationwides responsibilities 
extend to helping Mr A with the outstanding debt he has with them.
I can see that Nationwide have been accepting reduced repayments to the loan from Mr A since 
September 2011. I can also see from recent records that Nationwide have agreed to accept monthly 
payments of £20 and this will be reviewed regularly, in case Mr As financial  position changes. 
I think  Nationwide have met their responsibilities to Mr A here, because they have  checked to see if 
he can afford  the repayments and have agreed a suitable way forward for the loan account to 
gradually be paid back. Nationwide  have  also suspended further interest from being  applied to the 
loan, which means all of Mr As repayments will reduce  the outstanding  balance.  So, I think  
Ref: DRN97584736Nationwide have treated Mr A fairly  and in line with what the FCA and the LSB say. Also,  by agreeing  
to review his circumstances at regular intervals, I think theyve shown intent  to continue to help him in 
the future
the loan account  statements
Mr A says Nationwide  didnt  send  him statements for his loan account from July 2013 to August 2016 
and the same  problem happened again in 2017. During our investigation, Nationwide said they 
incorrectly stopped annual statements from being sent to Mr A. Nationwide now say they have 
corrected their records and Mr A will be sent statements  in the future.
I have reviewed Nationwides contact notes with Mr A and I can see that they wrote to him frequently 
during the three  years  hes told us about. The letters Nationwide sent contained information  about  the 
account balance  and the repayment plans he had arranged.  I can also see that Mr A called and spoke 
to Nationwide on a number of occasions to talk about the repayments due on his account. 
So, although  I acknowledge that Nationwide made a mistake I think Mr A was kept updated about his 
account balance  during that time. I have considered the impact on Mr A and I agree  that not having  
an annual statement was inconvenient. But, considering all the circumstances, I dont think  that it 
means Nationwide should pay him compensation. I think by making sure their records have been 
corrected, Nationwide  have  taken the appropriate steps.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive from Mr A 
or Nationwide  Building Society by 30 May 2019, my provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold 
Mr As complaint.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9758473