K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the impact TSB Bank Plcs  IT issues had on him.
background
Towards the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. 
Mr D says he has been unable to access his online banking since then. And he says this has 
caused him a great deal of distress  and anxiety as he has had difficulty managing  his 
finances because  of this. He says because he has been unable to manage his account he 
has incurred overdraft charges, fees and interest.  He also says he had to use his credit card 
instead to pay for food and occasionally to pay bills and because  of this he has incurred over 
limit charges  and interest on his credit  card.  He is also unhappy at TSBs lack of response 
and the length of time it has taken TSB to try and resolve matters.
Mr D also says he has had issues in the past (before TSBs IT issues began  in April 2018) 
with TSB in relation to transferring direct debits  from one account to another and also about 
applying for an overdraft. For the sake of clarity,  my decision only relates to the problems   
Mr D experienced as a result of TSBs IT issues.
Our adjudicator initially thought that TSB should pay Mr D £150  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to him because of the impact TSBs IT issues had on him. He didnt 
ask TSB to refund Mr D any overdraft or credit card fees/charges  and interest. Mr D didnt 
agree with our adjudicator.
Another adjudicator  then considered this complaint  and felt that £300 was a fairer amount in 
Mr Ds circumstances. This adjudicator  also didnt  think TSB should  refund Mr D any 
charges or interest. 
TSB agreed  to pay this amount  but Mr D still didnt agree with our adjudicator.  He thinks  he 
should be awarded 10 times this amount.  And  so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicator  that £300 is a fair amount of compensation in 
the particular circumstances  of this case.  I appreciate Mr D may be disappointed by this 
outcome as he was looking  for a larger amount and to be refunded various charges. But it is 
of course up to Mr D whether he chooses  to accept  or reject my decision. I will now explain 
why I have reached this outcome.
Mr D thinks that TSB should  refund the charges he incurred  on his current account as well 
as the over limit fees and extra interest he paid on his credit  card.  He says this is because  
he couldnt manage his account  properly due to not being able to access  is account online. 
He says he was unable to pay bills through the app, couldnt transfer money and had to rely 
on his credit card to get food and occasionally pay some bills. He also had to ask his 
girlfriend to make transfers  on his behalf  and pay the odd bill.
Ref: DRN93962242While I appreciate not being able to access online banking has been  inconvenient for Mr D - 
and have taken  this into account in considering  the fair amount of compensation to award  
Mr D - I havent  seen sufficient evidence to conclude that it was only because  Mr D wasnt  
able to access his online banking that he ended up going overdrawn. I have seen statements 
of Mr Ds account from before the IT issues started and note that he was also overdrawn 
before the issues began. He appeared to go overdrawn around the same  time during a 
number of the months (both before and after the IT issues). And there doesnt seem  to be a 
significant difference in how Mr D was using the account  before the IT issues compared with 
after the issues began. Similarly, I havent  seen sufficient evidence  to conclude  that Mr D 
went over his limit on his credit card because of TSB or that its fair to ask TSB to 
compensate Mr D for the interest he incurred  on his credit card. 
So, while I appreciate that TSB have waived charges  already  for May and June 2018 as a 
gesture of good  will to all customers,  based on the evidence  available  to me, I wont be 
asking TSB to refund Mr D any further  overdraft fees, interest or charges that he incurred on 
his current account  or any over limit fees/charges and interest he incurred on his credit  card.
Of course this doesnt mean that I dont think Mr D suffered distress and inconvenience 
because of TSBs IT issues.  I have no doubt that he did. He hasnt been able to access  his 
account as he should have been  able to. He has spent  a great deal of time (and had to 
rearrange work) in order  to try and contact TSB. And as far as Im aware  he still hasnt got 
access to his online banking. I have also taken into account what  Mr D has told us about  his 
disability and how this made it more difficult for him to keep going to the branch and to 
ATMs to check  his account.  However, I have to balance  this against the fact that Mr D was 
still able to use his account and there doesnt  seem  to have been a significant  difference in 
the way his accounts were managed according to the statements Ive seen.
So taking everything into account, I think TSB should award Mr D compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him. And in the particular circumstances of this case,  I 
think £300 is a fair and reasonable amount.
As already mentioned,  Mr D seems to still be having trouble accessing his account. It has 
been almost a year since the IT issues began. Clearly Mr D is unhappy with this lack of 
service from TSB. It is for Mr D to consider whether  or not to continue banking  with TSB if 
his banking needs arent being met.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint  and require TSB Bank  Plc to pay Mr D £300  in total for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him if they havent done  so already. They can take off 
from the £300 any payment they have  already  paid to Mr D for this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93962243
Ref: DRN9396224