K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in July 2001. Mr S says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr S wife, Mrs S, was an additional cardholder on the credit  card account. But as the 
account belonged to Mr S and he was responsible for the payments, the PPI only covered 
him. So Ive reviewed the complaint as such.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this.
Mr S representative says the PPI wasnt explained  to Mr S, and he was given insufficient 
information about it. IT also says the PPI was presented as conditional  on getting the credit 
card. So Ive looked carefully at Mr S credit card application form to decide  whats  most 
likely to have happened at the time.
I accept that I cant know exactly what was said during the meeting between  Mr S and 
Halifax, but the application form includes a tick box to include PPI. Although the box appears  
to have been pre-selected before it was printed, the entire application form is pre-printed. So 
I think this was the result of a discussion between Mr S and Halifax.  And if Mr S didnt 
understand the form, or didnt  agree to the PPI box being selected, I think shed most likely 
have questioned it, or not signed the form.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that it was right for him  and based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a 
need for the cover. 
Mr S representative says hed have been entitled  to 12 months sick pay if he was too 
unwell to work, but despite his long tenure  with his employer, I find that unlikely. From  what I 
know about other people in similar  roles to Mr S, with long tenures, I think its more  likely 
hed have received six months full followed by six months half sick pay. In any case, the 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to Mr S sick pay for up to a year for up to a year  so Mr S 
wouldve been able to use his sick pay for any other  financial commitments  he had. The PPI 
wouldve also paid out if Mr S had lost his job  and from what hes said, it doesnt seem  as 
though he had any other means to sustain  his credit card repayments if that had happened.
Ref: DRN92344442Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it seems 
like it would have been useful for his if something went  wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put his off taking out 
the cover. 
I want to reassure Mr S that Ive thought  carefully about everything hes said. But having 
done so, I dont think that Halifax  mis-sold the PPI to him.
This means  Halifax doesnt  need to refund everything Mr S paid for the PPI. But Halifax has 
already offered to give Mr S back some  of the cost of the PPI.
I understand that Mr S hasnt accepted Halifaxs offer yet, but Halifax  will make  
arrangements to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9234444