K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage application  Mr K made to Leek  United Building  Society.  
The application was refused, but Leek didnt say why. Mr K wants to know  why; he says any 
inconsistencies Leek  found would be explainable if he was given the chance.
background
Our investigator recognised how upsetting the decision had been but didnt think  Leek had 
done anything  wrong. Mr K has asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses dont have to agree every application for borrowing they receive.  They 
can exercise their commercial judgement to refuse an application, and theyre  not required to 
tell an unsuccessful applicant the reason theyve been turned down. However,  lenders do 
need to have a reason, and may have to tell us what it is.
Mr K is understandably unhappy and frustrated at not being told the reason  for the refusal. 
The building society has told us, but in confidence. Our rules permit  this; its then for me to 
decide whether  its fair to rely on evidence that only one party has seen. The information 
(and its source) is sensitive and on balance I dont believe it should be disclosed. But its 
also clearly material to the issue of whether Leek has treated Mr K fairly. So Im persuaded I 
should take it into account when  deciding the outcome of the complaint. 
Thats what  Ive done, and the conclusion  Ive reached is that Leek didnt refuse Mr Ks 
mortgage application unreasonably. It could do that and Im satisfied Leek didnt act unfairly 
or in a discriminatory  fashion when it exercised its judgement  in the way it did. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9647063