K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc provided her with poor service,  didnt respect  
her contact preferences or take into account  her mental health  problems.  
background
Mrs C had a current account  with Barclays. In June 2018 she contacted  Barclays to ask for 
them to stop sending text messages to her. She explained that she suffered from anxiety 
and depression and Barclays agreed to stop contacting her but Mrs C says from October 
onwards she received  further unsolicited messages from them.  Neither Barclays  nor Mrs C 
have been able to evidence these  messages.  
Mrs C is also disappointed overall with the customer service Barclays provided including  the 
fact Barclays closed  her account  and she wasnt notified about the closure.  
Mrs C complained to Barclays in October 2018.  Barclays accepted that theyd continued to 
send messages to Mrs C and offered her £50 and a sweetie hamper in recognition  of this. 
They also explained theyd  update her contact preferences. In November  2018  Mrs C 
contacted Barclays  again to complain  theyd sent her further  messages. Barclays  couldnt 
find any evidence of the text messages. 
Mrs C was also unhappy about customer service she received when phoning Barclays in 
November 2018   Barclays offered £25 in compensation for this.  
Mrs C wasnt happy with Barclays  response   so complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mrs Cs complaint and thought that Barclays needed to do more  to 
put things right. They thought that Barclays had continued to contact Mrs C when shed 
asked them to stop and they should  give her £100  additional compensation in recognition  of 
the distress caused.  
Mrs C accepted our investigators opinion.  But Barclays didnt agree  they said they cant  
find any evidence that text messages were sent to Mrs C after she contacted  Barclays  in 
October 2018 and they think its more likely any messages Mrs C received were fraudulent 
rather than from them. As Barclays didnt agree it's been passed to me for final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so I think Barclays need to 
do more to put things right. 
As Mrs C and Barclays accepted our investigators  conclusions about the customer service  
and Barclays handling of the closure of Mrs Cs account Ive not considered these complaint 
points in my decision.  
text messages
Ive considered the evidence provided  by both Barclays and Mrs C in relation to the text 
messages. Neither  Barclays  nor Mrs C have  been  able to evidence any text messages 
which were sent after June 2018.  Despite  this, Im persuaded that its more likely  than not 
Mrs C received further text messages from Barclays after this time. I say this based on the 
plausibility of Mrs Cs account  and the efforts which Mrs C went to obtain  relevant evidence. 
Ref: DRN95961602This included  albeit unsuccessful   contacting  of her mobile service provider in an attempt 
to obtain copies of the text messages. Im satisfied  when  considering  the efforts Mrs C made 
its more likely than not Barclays  sent Mrs C further text messages after she requested they 
stop. 
Ive thought about the impact of the text messages on Mrs C  and Im satisfied Mrs Cs 
anxiety and depression was likely worsened by receiving these messages. In recognition  of 
the distress caused  to Mrs C by receiving unwarranted text messages Barclays  should  pay 
Mrs C £100 compensation, in addition to the £50 already awarded. 
my final decision
My final decision is I direct Barclays Bank  to:
- Pay Mrs C £100 distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9596160