K821x#15complaint
Mr S says that London & Surrey Motor Finance Ltd (LSMF) mis-sold him a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  when  he took out a loan.
background
In 2006 Mr S took out a loan to buy a car. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy to 
cover his loan repayments if he couldnt  work  due to accident or sickness  or lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  Mr S had a pre-existing 
medical condition  (PEMC) at the time of sale. PEMCs were  excluded for cover  under the 
policy which  meant the policy wouldnt have meet Mr Ss needs.  He didnt think  LSMF  
shouldve recommended the policy without  pointing this out.
LSMF disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
LSMF were under a duty to provide Mr S with information on PPI in a clear,  fair and non-
misleading way so he could make  an informed choice about whether or not he wanted to 
take the policy. To make an informed choice Mr S needed to understand the costs  and 
benefits of PPI, as well as the main exclusions and limitations of the policy.
Mr S has told us when he took out the policy he was suffering from a PEMC.
Ive read the PPI policy document relevant at the time of the sale and I note that PEMCs 
were not covered. Mr Ss condition wouldve been  considered a PEMC, so I have to consider  
whether or not this exclusion  was made sufficiently clear to him.
The policy was sold a while ago so I think its unlikely  either  Mr S or LSMFs will remember 
everything discussed when the policy was sold. So to help decide  whether the exclusion 
relating to PEMCs was made sufficiently clear to Mr S, Ive looked  at what the documents  
that were used at the time of sale show.
Ive seen a copy  of the demands and needs  statement completed around the time of the 
sale. LSMF say that by signing this Mr S confirmed that he was aware of the circumstances 
under which the policy  would  and wouldnt pay out. But I think this is misleading  as the 
document says:
I confirm  that the Credit Protection Insurance policy has been explained to me and that I am 
aware that the circumstances under which the policy will and will not pay out are stated in 
the policy document. 
Ref: DRN91600402Saying that the policy document states  what  the exclusions are is quite different to Mr S 
being aware of what they are. And I cant see anywhere on the demands  and needs  
statement where it asks about or mentions PEMCs or the exclusions relating to this. 
So the only place  I can see that any information is provided on the exclusion of PEMCs is in 
the policy document. I dont know if Mr S read, or even received the policy document.  And If 
Mr S did receive and read the policy document I think it wouldve likely been after he had 
agreed to take the policy out. 
I think this exclusion wouldve mattered to Mr S because he wouldnt have been able to 
make a successful claim for time off work related to his condition.  And I dont think  hed have 
taken the policy if hed understood this.
So I think Mr S has lost out financially because LSMF didnt make the exclusions relating to 
PEMCs clear to him when recommending the policy. Because of this I uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
what LSMF should do to put things  right
LSMF should put Mr S in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and LSMF should:
Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, LSMF  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires LSMF to take off tax from this interest. LSMF must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint  against London  & Surrey Motor Finance Ltd and direct they pay 
the fair compensation outlined above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9160040