K820x#14complaint
Mr G doesnt think  MBNA  Limited  (MBNA)  has offered him fair compensation in response  to 
his complaint about the sale of a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G was sold PPI with his credit card (account ending 5719). The PPI started  in 
February 2000 and ended in February  2005.  The account remained opened and the 
outstanding debt (£12,685.27) was sold to a different business in July 2007.
In July 2018, Mr G complained that the policy was mis-sold  and MBNA upheld  his 
complaint. It offered  to refund the PPI premiums (£683.59) and the extra credit card interest 
it had charged him as result (£190.36). It also offered to pay him 8% simple interest per year 
on the extra hed paid because of PPI. This was £352.77 (before tax).
Mr G doesnt think  MBNA  has worked out the simple  interest  correctly.  
Our adjudicator thought the offer was fair.
Mr G disagrees  so the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA has upheld Mr Gs complaint about the sale of the PPI policy  so I dont need to 
decide whether  or not the policy was mis-sold.
Instead, I need to decide  whether or not MBNA  has offered Mr G fair compensation. I think it 
has and Ill explain why.
MBNA accepts that the policy was mis-sold. So Id expect it to refund all the PPI premiums 
and any extra credit card interest  Mr G was charged  because of those premiums.  MBNA  
also needs to pay 8% simple interest per year on any extra  Mr G paid because of PPI. This 
is to compensate him for being out of pocket.
MBNA has sent us a month-by-month  breakdown showing how its calculated Mr Gs 
compensation. Weve  shared this with Mr G. Each month, its worked out how much Mr G 
might have owed if he hadnt had PPI by removing the PPI premiums  and any interest 
caused by PPI. And I can see MBNA  has refunded all the premiums and credit card interest  
caused by PPI.
Mr Gs main complaint point is that he thinks the offer for 8% simple  interest is too low.
Calculating simple interest in this type of case isnt easy.
MBNA has looked at each  of Mr Gs credit card payments and worked out when he might 
have paid less if he hadnt had PPI because his balance would have been smaller.
Ref: DRN91634872It has then paid simple interest  on the extra he paid, from the date he made  the payment 
until the date he received  his refund. Ive reviewed the breakdown MBNA has sent us. I think 
the way its done this is fair  and Ill use a month  to explain what its done.
MBNA has calculated simple interest on a monthly  basis.
By July 2002, Mr G had, in total,  paid £136.57 more than he would have done if he hadnt  
had PPI. MBNA has paid Mr G £0.91  in simple interest for that month. £136.57  multiplied by 
8% is £10.93. So hed have received £10.93 for every  year he was out of pocket by this 
amount  or £0.91 per month when rounded to the nearest whole  number.
I appreciate there are one or two months when the simple interest  MBNA  has paid doesnt 
seem to reflect the amount Mr G had paid. Thats because it varies  according to the number 
of days in the month and when Mr G made  his card payment that month. It will also vary 
slightly due to rounding.
What MBNA hasnt done is pay simple interest  on the difference between the amount he 
owed (£12,685.27) and the amount  he might  have owed if he hadnt had PPI when his debt 
was sold to a third party (£12,107.49).  The difference  is £577.78.  MBNA  hasnt  added  simple 
interest on this amount  because this isnt money  Mr G has paid  unless he paid the third 
party more  than £12,107.49  of this debt.
Mr G told us he doesnt have to pay the third party any more  money  but he refused  to tell us 
how much  he paid it.
As I havent  seen any evidence that Mr G paid the third party  more than £12,107.49,  I think  
the way MBNA has calculated simple interest  in this case  is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think MBNA Limited has paid Mr G fair compensation. So 
theres nothing more it needs to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9163487