K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage that started  in 2002. The PPI was sold to them over the 
phone when they took out a further  advance in 2007 .
The mortgage was in joint names and the policy covered Mr F. It protected  their mortgage 
monthly repayments in the event of accident  and sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs F mainly  said that Mr F was self employed and they had savings. So if the costs 
versus benefits and the policys optional nature had been made clear they wouldve declined  
the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I think Santander made Mr and Mrs F aware  that they had a choice about  buying  the PPI, 
and they chose to take it. Theres no recording of the phone call when Santander sold the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs F. But Santander has provided  a call script to show  how its advisors were 
instructed to explain and present PPI. And Ive also seen a record  of the discussion that Mr F 
had with Santanders representative when  PPI was discussed. 
Santander says the sales process at the time was for the representative  to go through  Mr Fs 
personal circumstances before  offering  advice  and recommendations based on this. The 
paperwork Ive seen  suggests this is what happened during the call  and that Mr F said that 
if he was unable to work  through  accident  and sickness he would be unable to pay his 
mortgage and related  bills. 
Other paperwork Ive seen indicates that Santander  recommended the policy to Mr F  and 
that he accepted that recommendation.
Ive also seen the mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs F  this clearly indicates  that they 
werent required to take out any insurance  through the lender  and the only insurance they 
had to have wasnt  PPI. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs F mightve forgotten some of the details of 
this sale as it was so long ago. This means  that what Mr and Mrs F say isnt enough  on its 
own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I have to look at everything Ive been told 
and sent and decide what I think is most likely.
Ref: DRN91123452Santander sent a welcome  letter to Mr F in June  2007 which included a schedule of cover 
(showing the insurance theyd taken)  and Paymentcare paperwork (telling them  about the 
policy). 
Mr F couldve queried the PPI when  he got the welcome letter if this wasnt  something they 
wanted. From what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened. I dont know what exactly  
what was discussed  during the call with the advisor about PPI. But I think  the paperwork Ive 
seen shows that Santander gave Mr and Mrs F enough  information to make them aware that 
it was up to them to choose whether to take out PPI and they couldve taken their further  
advance without PPI if they hadnt  wanted to have  the cover.
Overall, I think its likely that Santander  did enough to make Mr and Mrs F aware that the PPI 
was optional. And it was added  to their account when they indicated they wanted to have it.
Santander says it advised Mr and Mrs F to take out the policy  to cover Mr F. So it had to 
make sure this was a suitable recommendation for them, as well as providing them  with 
clear information so they could decide if it was right for them.
Mr F was eligible  for the policy.  
The policy covered Mr F for accident and sickness for up to 12 months per claim - and 
repeat claims were possible.  So the policy wouldve given Mr and Mrs F long term cover  
whilst they were paying off their secured  borrowing. Their mortgage was a major financial 
commitment and Mr and Mrs Fs home  wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments 
werent kept up to date.  I think  its likely  that losing Mr Fs income wouldve had a significant 
impact on their joint finances. So, I can see why they mightve  felt it was useful having PPI to 
protect his income.  
Looking at what theyve  told me about their circumstances, I think  having PPI couldve  been 
helpful for Mr and Mrs F, even if theyve  forgotten now why they decided  to have it. 
Having PPI gave  Mr and Mrs F security and peace  of mind that their mortgage  repayments 
would be protected  even  if Mr F couldnt  work.  
Mr and Mrs F mentioned having savings.  But there  was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs F 
took out this further advance that they would always have savings to rely on as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. And it looks like they preferred not to spend  
savings, or they had other plans for that money, since they took out this advance on their 
mortgage rather than invest all their savings to reduce their borrowing. 
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs F could depend  on being able to continue to keep savings 
intact to spend  on other things or to provide financial security for the future. 
So, looked  at overall, I think  PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs F.
Its possible some of the information  Mr and Mrs F were given about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. There were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if 
those applied to Mr F. So, I dont think having  more  information about things the policy  didnt 
cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
Ref: DRN91123453I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs F at the time they bought  the 
policy. But looking at the welcome letter it appears  theyd  signed an instruction form to their 
bank to cover the monthly cost. And the amount of the monthly premium was set out in the 
letter. So it seems Mr and Mrs F were  happy at the time to pay for it and the policy  appears  
to have been  affordable. As they were  paying  for the PPI monthly,  they could cancel it 
without further  cost if their situation  changed  or they no longer wanted it.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs F still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been given clearer  
information as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. And, on balance,  
I dont find it was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give back to Mr and Mrs F some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Fs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Santander 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs F paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
This means  it doesnt need to take any steps to put things right.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9112345