K820x#14complaint
Mr R complained about how Society  of Lloyds dealt with his claim under his cars minor 
damage protection insurance and that it refused to refund premiums for that and another  
policy. My references to Lloyds include its agent.
background
In 2016 Mr R bought minor damage  protection  insurance and tyre and alloy wheel damage  
insurance. The policies  cost £399  each.
In July 2017 Mr R made a claim for damage to the paintwork on his car. He reported that the 
road where  he lived had been poorly  resurfaced  causing about 15 stone chips to the 
paintwork.
Lloyds contracted  technician  came  to assess the damage on 12 September 2017.  Theres a 
dispute about what Mr R and the technician  discussed. Mr R says the technician was ready 
to repair  the damage  but told him there might be an issue with the paintwork and suggested 
the car manufacturer look at the issue. Mr R says he decided to have the car dealership  
inspect the paintwork and the technician confirmed  he could book the repair  at a later date.
In the meantime, on 18 September the technician told Lloyds the repairs  couldnt  be carried  
out using SMART  (Small to Medium Area Repair  Technology) repair techniques.  That meant 
a body shop repair was required,  which wasnt covered  by the policy.
The car dealership  investigated the potential paint  problem and during this time (around 
30 September 2017) Mr R traded in his car for a newer model. He was unhappy Lloyds 
hadnt repaired the car. He cancelled the two insurance policies and asked for a full premium 
refund.
Lloyds refused a refund. Mr R had made a previous claim on his minor damage protection  
insurance so under  the policy terms there was no refund. The policy administrator sent 
Lloyds the tyre and alloy wheel insurance  policy. Lloyds said that policy gave  no refund of 
premium if the policy wasnt cancelled within 14 days of the start date.
On 6 October 2017 the car dealership emailed Mr R to say the car passed  all tests and the 
paint was to the manufacturers standard. Also, in its opinion the stone chips  on the car 
could be touched in and wouldnt  require the panels  to be fully repainted.  It sent that 
information to Lloyds on 26 October  2017.  The same day Lloyds asked the car dealership  if 
it could repair the damage and invoice  Lloyds.
Lloyds then wrote to Mr R saying that if hed still owned the car it would have instructed 
another repairer for a second opinion about  the damage but as hed sold the car it couldnt 
continue the claim.
Mr R complained to us. He says Lloyds wrongly  declined his claim and it should refund both 
policies premiums.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had fairly declined the claim and it didnt need to refund any 
premiums for the minor damage  protection policy. But he thought  it should  refund the 
premium for the tyre and alloy wheel policy from the time Mr R cancelled the policy, less 
cancellation fee, plus interest.
Ref: DRN95692762Lloyds didnt agree.  It said the tyre and alloy wheel policy was clear there was no refund. 
Mr R didnt agree either. He said Lloyds hadnt  taken the car dealerships opinion into 
account and Lloyds technician had greatly exaggerated the damage to his car.
Before I made my decision I noted  that although Lloyds is the insurer for the minor damage  
protection policy it isnt the insurer for the tyre and alloy wheel policy.
I contacted the insurer  of the tyre and alloy wheel policy who said it wasnt aware  of Mr Rs 
complaint about  that policy. Ultimately that insurer agreed to pay the pro rata premiums from 
date of cancellation for that policy. Mr R agreed  so I didnt  need to do a decision about that 
matter.
I asked Mr R to clarify what outcome he was looking for as hed mentioned compensation. 
I also asked him to clarify whether  he was raising a mis-sale complaint as hed mentioned  he 
thought the policy was mis-sold. He said he wasnt looking for compensation just a return  of 
premium on both the policies for the time remaining after cancellation. He said hed 
complained to the car dealership who sold him the policy as his claim should have been 
covered.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to not uphold any part of Mr Rs 
complaint against  Lloyds.  I said:
As Lloyds  isnt the insurer  for the tyre and alloy wheel policy I couldn't  tell Lloyds to refund 
any premium for that policy,  which was paid to a different insurer. The insurer for the tyre 
and alloy wheel policy and Mr R have now reached agreement about  a refund of premiums  
under that policy.
Mr R says he bought  both policies from the car dealership.  Its highly likely  the dealership 
was acting as an agent for a separate business  and if Mr R wants  to make a mis-sale 
complaint he should  contact  our investigator. However, the reason Mr R has given for 
thinking the policy was mis-sold is Lloyds didnt cover the claim. So the real issue  is whether 
Lloyds fairly  declined the claim, not was the policy mis-sold. Its also fair for me to tell Mr R 
that as he made a successful claim in March 2017  on a separate matter its very unlikely we 
would say the policy was mis-sold as he benefited  from making  a claim on the policy.
This decision is just about the issues in Mr Rs complaint that Lloyds is responsible  for. 
I need to decide whether:
Lloyds fairly and reasonably declined Mr Rs claim  for repair  on the information it had 
at the relevant times,  and
Lloyds must refund  any of the minor damage protection  policy  premiums.
I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers minor  repair damage  to stone chips in the paintwork up to a specified 
diameter and policy limit. But theres  an important note in bold capital text at the start of the 
policy which  says:
Ref: DRN95692763SMART REPAIR IS ONE WHERE THE TECHNICIAN CAN COMPLETE THE REPAIR 
WITHIN TWO HOURS AND WILL BE TO BEST ENDEAVOURS. WHERE A SMART 
REPAIR CANNOT BE ACHIEVED,  THE VEHICLE  WILL REQUIRE A BODYSHOP REPAIR  
WHICH IS NOT COVERED BY THIS INSURANCE  POLICY.
So if the damage cant be repaired by SMART repair it isnt covered.
Mr R says Lloyds technician was mixing the paint  to repair the car when the discussion 
about the potential paint  problem happened. But the report the technician  gave to Lloyds 
was different. He said there were multiple stone chips across  the vehicle  which would 
require respraying most of the car  too much for a cosmetic repair.
Ive seen photos of a few stone chips on the car and Ive seen Mr Rs diagram of where the 
chips were.  I dont  have enough  information  to know whether the technicians  estimate  of 20 
to 30 chips was correct.  But either  way 20 isnt greatly in excess of the 15 stone chips  Mr R 
told Lloyds.
The important point  is that on the information  Lloyds technician  gave it could reasonably  
believe a SMART repair wasnt possible.  On that information it fairly said the repair  wasnt 
covered by the policy.
Lloyds was only given  a different expert  opinion on 26 October when it received the car 
dealerships email. It told Mr R in its letter of 7 November  that it would have got another  
repairer's opinion. But Lloyds had already  suggested to the car dealership  that it would pay 
for the repair if the dealership could  do the repair. I dont think getting another  opinion would 
have been necessary or reasonable.
However, by that time the repair was theoretical. Mr R had already traded in his car before 
Lloyds got the opinion  from the car dealership  that a SMART repair could be done.
Mr R suggested to Lloyds  that he traded in the car because its technician worried him about 
the paint quality. But if he was concerned it would have been  reasonable for him to find out 
the result  of the paint inspection first. The result  was there  wasnt  a problem. If there had 
been he probably would have had a remedy against the cars manufacturer.
I understand it was frustrating for Mr R to later get confirmation his car could be SMART 
repaired but on the information  Lloyds  had in September 2017 it fairly declined  the claim.
On the premium refund, the minor  damage  protection policy terms are clear that Mr R:
can cancel at any time after the 30 day cooling off period and you will be entitled to a refund 
proportionate to the unexpired months  of the policy, as long as you have not made a claim 
and do not intend to make claim.
Mr R had made a successful claim on the policy for a separate  matter.  In those 
circumstances Lloyds  can fairly say it wont refund any premium for that policy.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Lloyds or Mr R responded to my provisional decision by the date we gave them to 
respond.
Ref: DRN95692764my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Lloyds  or Mr R responded to my provisional decision Ive no reason to change 
my mind. For the reasons given in my provisional  findings and these findings  I dont  uphold  
this complaint. Lloyds  doesnt need to refund  any premiums for the minor damage protection  
insurance and tyre or alloy wheel damage insurance  policies.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Society  of Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9569276