K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about issues shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from Lex 
Autolease Ltd.
background
In September  2016 Mrs S was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire agreement  with 
Lex Autolease. 
After the first two months, Mrs S experienced issues  with the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF). 
The car was returned to the supplying dealer who advised Mrs S to give it a good drive. This 
resolved the issue  but after a few months Mrs S says she experienced the same  issues  
again. When Mrs S became unable to clear the warning light by driving the car, she returned  
the car to the supplying dealer who carried out repairs.
Mrs S says she continued to experience issues. In July 2018 she complained to Lex 
Autolease and asked to reject the car.
In response, Lex Autolease said that the supplying dealer  had carried  out a diagnostic test 
which showed the 50% of the journeys made by Mrs S were  less than 10m minutes in 
length, which wasnt allowing the DPF to regenerate automatically as intended. Lex 
Autolease said the garage had forced a regeneration of the DPF which had resolved the 
issues. It said that Mrs S could end the agreement early if she wished but that she would 
have to pay a penalty.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service. She stopped making 
payments and asked  Lex Autolease to collect the car.
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that there was evidence to show  that the issue  with the DPF 
was present or developing  at the point of supply.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said shed experienced issues  with the DPF in the second month of 
the agreement  and that she shouldnt  be held responsible for paying for a car which  was 
faulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Lex Autolease has supplied the car under a hire agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Cars  are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person  would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
such as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price  paid.
In order to uphold  this complaint I would need  to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply because  of an inherent defect.
Mrs S and Lex Autolease  disagree about  whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. 
In order to reach a decision, I need to look at the available  evidence  and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN97317792Mrs S has said that she experienced issues with the DPF after two months.  She says she 
contacted Lex Autolease  at the time and they advised her to take the car to the supplying  
dealer. Mrs S ha said that the dealer advised  her to give the car a good  drive  and that this 
resolved the issue  for a few months.
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that the supplying  dealer diagnosed a fault in the first 
six months. Nor have  I seen any evidence that any repairs  were  attempted during this 
period. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a  fault arises in the first six months its 
generally up to the business to put things right. After six months, its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present at the point  of supply.
I can see that the DPF was repaired in October 2017. This repair was outside  of the first six 
months, so under  the relevant legislation its up to Mrs S to show  that there  was a fault which  
was present at the point of supply.  
Ive taken into account the diagnostic  carried out in August 2018, which showed the majority 
of Mrs Ss journeys were less than 10 minutes in length. The engineer took the view that Mrs 
Ss driving  habits didnt  allow  the DPF to regenerate, which was causing the issues.
Mrs S has said that most of her journeys are short, with her school run being  5-10 minutes in 
duration and her place  of work being 5 minutes away.
A DPF system needs a car to be driven at a constant road speed  so the regeneration 
process can complete  successfully. Lots of short journeys and journeys that involve 
stop/start traffic may cause a regeneration cycle to be unsuccessful. A single longer journey 
may be all that is required  for the regeneration to be successfully completed.  Generally, if a 
consumers driving profile involves short  trips in heavy traffic a car with a DPF isnt suitable. 
That isnt to say that the car is faulty, but rather that the driving  profile can cause issues with 
the DPF.
Ive also taken into account the mileage  covered in the car during the time it was in Mrs Ss 
possession. The mileage  is average which suggests to me that the car was able to be driven 
as intended. If there had been an inherent  fault with the DPF at the point of supply, I 
wouldve expected  it to have affected the car to the extent that the mileage  would be much 
less.
Taking all of the available evidence into account,  I havent seen evidence to persuade me 
that there  was a fault with the car at the point  of supply. I think its more likely that Mrs Ss 
driving profile caused the issues. Because of this, Im unable to say that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. So I cant recommend rejection  of the car or ask Lex Autolease to waive 
any payments due.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Ref: DRN97317793Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9731779