K821x#15complaint
Mr J says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to him. He has said Sunny didnt carry out any ongoing credit checks after the first loan. He 
had to take multiple short-term loans which prolonged  and increased  his repayments. He 
borrowed from other short-term lenders, couldnt  afford his basic living costs and fell behind  
with his priority bills.
background
This complaint is about one flex-credit arrangement and seven short-term  loans (Ill refer to 
all borrowing as loans in my decision and have numbered them  for reference) Sunny 
provided to Mr J between November 2014 and February 2016.  Mr Js borrowing history  is as 
follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount
1 22/11/2014 13/02/2015 flex-credit £500.00
2 16/02/2015 14/08/2015 6 £500.00
3 16/06/2015 15/12/2015 6 £350.00
4 18/07/2015 24/12/2015 6 £150.00
5 18/08/2015 15/02/2016 6 £500.00
6 17/12/2015 Sold 6 £650.00
7 08/01/2016 Sold 6   £50.00
8 18/02/2016 Sold 6 £350.00
My understanding is that loans six to eight  are outstanding and had been  sold to a third party 
but that Sunny was trying to recall them.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Js complaint and thought  the loans from loan six 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Sunny disagreed but did make a partial  offer but concluded nothing  was due to Mr J as the 
borrowing hadnt been repaid. It later reconsidered Mr Js complaint and made a further offer 
as a gesture of goodwill.  It wasnt in-line  with what we would expect.  However, we put the 
offer to Mr J, but he didnt  reply.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr J could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
Ref: DRN99953432different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr J didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to five shouldnt be upheld.  
Because of this, I dont think there  is any ongoing  disagreement about  these  loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about  this lending.  But the loans were  part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr J had with Sunny. So, it is something  I will take into account  when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. Im going to uphold the complaint in 
part. Ill explain why
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr J, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Js case, like the adjudicator,  I think that this point 
was reached by loan six. I say this because:
Ref: DRN99953433At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr J was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr J had been indebted to Sunny for 13 months. So Sunny ought  to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr J was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Js 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. And this was one of Mr Js complaint 
point so I think it seems more likely to be the case.
Mr Js first loan was for £500 (broken down by £300 taken  on 22 November 2014  
followed by a further £200 taken  a week later) and loan six was for £650.  At this point 
Sunny ought to have known that Mr J was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary 
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr J had overlapping loans and was consistently reborrowing once a loan had been 
repaid. As examples,  loan two was taken three days after loan one was repaid, loan 
five was taken  four days after loan two was repaid and loan six was taken two days 
after loan three was repaid. A strong indication the borrowing  was unsustainable. 
Mr J wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  eight was 
taken out 15 months after Mr Js first. Mr J had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Sunny  over an extended  period.
I think that Mr J lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr J borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Js ability to access mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loans six to eight  and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
If the outstanding balance  due on Mr Js loans  has been transferred to a third party and not 
so far recalled, Sunny should buy the loans back if it can. If Sunny cant buy the loans back, 
then it needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved:  
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr J which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr J originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr J as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
Ref: DRN99953434If this results  in Mr J having made overpayments then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Sunny should  then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should  be paid to Mr J. However, if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan 
with Mr J. 
E) The number of loans  taken from loan six onwards means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries  about loans six to eight should be 
removed from Mr Js credit file. Sunny  does  not have to remove loans six to eight 
from Mr Js credit file until these have been repaid, but any adverse information  
recorded about these loans should  still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr J still has an outstanding balance due, then Sunny should try 
and work  together to come  to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan with Mr J in order  to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Sunny of its obligation to treat Mr J fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Js complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9995343