K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Barclays  Bank UK Plc  trading as Egg (Egg)  - mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr S bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Both Mr S and Egg agree  that the policy was applied for online. Egg sold the policy it 
shouldve made  Mr S aware  he had a choice about  buying the PPI. Mr S says the PPI was 
added without his consent or knowledge. 
Egg has explained the sales  process and given us screenshots  of how the PPI wouldve 
been shown to Mr S at the time of the sale. I have no reason to think Mr S wouldve seen 
something different.  So Ive looked  carefully at these screenshots  and I can see 
Mr S wouldve  been  given a choice to select yes or no to buy the policy.  The process 
wouldve required an option to be selected before an applicant couldve moved on to the 
next section. And the fact the PPI was added to Mr Ss account  makes me think its more 
likely he selected the yes  option. 
So I think Egg made Mr S aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. 
Egg didnt  recommend the policy to Mr S. This means Egg didnt have  to check  it was 
suitable for him. But it shouldve made  sure it gave Mr S enough information to allow  him to 
choose whether  the PPI was right for him or not. Mr S says he wasnt  given clear information 
about the policy. 
Looking at the screenshots, I think the information  Egg gave Mr S about the costs, benefits 
and main limitations of the policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. So Ive got to consider 
whether better information about  the policy wouldve put Mr S off taking  it out. 
I dont think it would  have.  I say this because Mr S doesnt appear  to have been affected by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover  such as any existing health conditions  or any 
unusual working  patterns.
Mr S says he would  have received between six months full followed by six months half sick 
pay from his employer. Mr S says he would also receive a generous redundancy package 
and that he had savings at the time. 
Ref: DRN99578872For a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid out 10% of the outstanding balance  of the 
credit card for up to 12 months alongside  any employee benefits  Mr S received. In the event 
of Mr S being too unwell  to work or becoming unemployed, the policy  wouldve allowed him 
to use his employee benefits  and savings to cover  other essential costs.  So it looks like the 
PPI would have  been useful to him. 
Taking all of this into account,  even  if Mr S had been given clear information,  I still think  he 
wouldve bought  the policy. Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back  all the cost of the 
PPI to Mr S.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr S about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said, but for the reasons explained above these 
points dont change  my decision.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9957887