K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained that Hyperformance  Ltd mis-sold him his motor  policy, as it failed to 
explain the cancellation charges.
background
Mr J bought his policy  on 4 November 2017 to begin that day. He paid a deposit of £368.45  
and then monthly payments for the remainder of the policy.
He sold his car in February and asked Hyperformance to cancel his policy.  It said, having 
done that. that Mr J still owed it £609.21. 
Mr J complained, as he couldnt  understand why he was being charged this. Hyperformance  
explained this was due to the short-term cancellation rates,  which it said had been explained 
in the sales call and was detailed in the policy documents.
Mr J remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. Hyperformance then waived its 
cancelation charge of £125. The adjudicator thought  his complaint should be upheld as he 
thought the short-term rates had not be properly explained in the sales call. Therefore, he 
thought that Hyperformance should recalculate Mr Js time on cover  on the standard  basis  
and refund any over payment. He also the waiving of its cancellation charge was adequate 
compensation for Mr J.
Hyperformance didnt  agree  so Mr Js complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Ive listened to all four call recordings between Mr J and the adviser.  At no time was the 
cancellation charges mentioned properly or indeed explained at any time. The pre-recorded  
message said it would be detailed by the adviser afterwards, but in the following call, he 
barely mentions  anything  to do with cancellation  charges other than its calculated on a 
month-by-month basis. This in my view does not explain to Mr J adequately that the later in 
the year he cancels his policy the less refund hell get, which  is the object of the short-term 
rates.
As Hyperformance is aware, this service considers short-term cancellation rates to be a 
significant terms and also unusual terms. Consequently, they should be fully detailed  in the 
sales call. The call recordings show Mr J was listening attentively and asked several 
questions to ensure  he understood  everything. Whilst the admin  charges were  fully 
explained, there is simply no discussion of the cancellation charges. 
Therefore, I think the more usual standard time on risk should be undertaken now by 
Hyperformance. So that the outstanding  balance is adjusted and any over payment made by 
Mr J is then reimbursed.
I agree  with the adjudicator that fact Hyperformance waived its cancellation fee of £125 is 
adequate compensation  for Mr J.
Ref: DRN97544062Hyperformance detailed  other cases where  this service agreed  with the short  term rates. As 
it knows, we consider each case on its own merits. Here, as theres simply no discussion of 
these short-term rates in the sales call, I consider it failed to bring these to Mr Js attention  
adequately or all.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Hyperformance  Ltd to do the following:
Recalculate Mr Js time on risk on the standard basis.
Adjust his outstanding  balance according.
If there  was any overpayment by Mr J, refund Mr J that any overpayment. Adding 
interest of 8% simple  per year from the date he made any such overpayment  to date 
of its refund.*
*If Hyperformance Ltd considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold  
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken  off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9754406