K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined a claim made  
under her pet insurance policy.
background
Mrs P has explained her dog, who Ill call R, unfortunately suffered from a ruptured  cruciate  
ligament on their left hand side in early 2018. R needed treatment for this problem. So, 
Mrs P made a claim under her pet insurance policy  for the vet costs incurred as a result of 
this treatment.
RSA considered Mrs Ps claim. But, it said it wasnt able to provide settlement to Mrs P on 
this occasion.  It said this was because;
Mrs P had previously made  a claim for vet costs incurred because  of a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
cruciate rupture in 2015. And, RSA had provided  a settlement amount of £2,500 to 
Mrs P at this point.
There was a maximum claim limit under the policy  Mrs P had selected. This 
maximum claim limit meant vet fees were covered, for up to 12 months  after the start 
of an incident,  up to the maximum  amount  of £2,500. 
It felt the cruciate  ruptures in 2015  and 2018  were as a result of the same incident.  
So, Mrs P had already  exhausted the maximum claim limit under the policy over 12 
months ago  which meant it couldnt  provide further financial assistance  for this 
issue.
Mrs P didnt feel this was fair. She highlighted that the problems R suffered were  in two 
different areas of Rs body  one of their left hand  side, and one on their right.  So, she didnt 
feel the two occasions were  related,  and shouldnt be treated as one incident.  She felt the 
occasions should be considered separately, with separate limits applying to them.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said Rs vet had explained they believed the 
cruciate ligament  damage R suffered from in 2015  and 2018 was consistent  with 
degenerative cruciate disease. Having looked  at the terms  of the policy our investigator  
considered this would be considered as one incident. So, he felt RSA had acted fairly in 
saying it had already  paid Mrs P to up the maximum claim benefit in 2015, and that it was 
now over the 12 month period RSA would cover vet fees for, since the start of the incident.  
Because Mrs P didnt  agree  this complaint has been  referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
Ive looked at Mrs Ps policy documents, to see what cover she has. I can see Mrs P has 
silver pet insurance cover. And, this provides cover for vet fees for up to 12 months  from the 
start of an incident  up to an amount of £2,500.
Ref: DRN97666032The policy also defines what  is considered an incident. This is;
A specifically identifiable  illness, disease,  injury, sudden or unexpected event or change in 
your pets  normal healthy  state, its bodily functions  or behaviour.
Incidents which are reoccurring and ongoing  are considered to be one loss (regardless of 
the number of incidents or areas of the body affected) and are defined  as;
i) clear  or obvious signs  which  result in the same diagnosis which  your pet has an ongoing 
predisposition or susceptibility to, and is related in any way to the original claim; or
ii) injury,  illness or disease or change in your pets normal healthy  state,  its bodily functions  
or behaviour which are incurable and likely to continue for the remained of your pets life.
RSA thinks the cruciate ruptures R suffered  from in 2015 and 2018 would be considered as 
one incident. So, it says it has already paid Mrs P the maximum claim benefit under her 
policy for this. And, in any event, it explained  its been over 12 months since the start of the 
incident in 2015. So, any further  vet fees in 2018  wouldnt  be covered even if the limit had 
not already been reached.  
Ive needed to think about whether RSA has acted fairly in noting the cruciate  ruptures R 
suffered from would be considered as one incident  as per the terms of Mrs Ps policy. And 
whether its position  on the claim is fair and reasonable.
Having looked  at the evidence provided to me I do think RSA has acted fairly. So, Im 
satisfied that it doesnt  need to do anything more in respect of this claim.
Ive seen an email from the veterinary  practice  that treated R. And within  this email the vet 
explained the history and clinical  presentation are more consistent with degenerative 
cruciate disease. They also note the radiographic and synovial fluid findings so soon after 
the lameness  R experienced was more supportive of degenerative cruciate disease too.  
I understand Mrs P feels the problems R has suffered  are two separate incidents. And I 
appreciate why given the cruciate  ruptures  were on different legs  and a number of years 
apart. But, I think the expert in this instance (the vet) has provided  persuasive evidence that 
suggests the problems R suffered in 2015  and 2018 are on balance more likely  to be as a 
result of a degenerative  disease. The vet did also explain that there was no evidence of a 
significant trauma that caused cruciate  rupture. I havent seen any firm evidence to suggest  
the vet in this instance is incorrect. And I have  no reason to doubt what  they have said.
So, I think this does  suggest its more likely that not a degenerative disease is the cause of 
the problems R has unfortunately experienced. 
 
The definition of incident in the policy does include clear or obvious  signs  which result in the 
same diagnosis  which  show the pet has a predisposition or susceptibility to a disease.  The 
same diagnosis was provided for the cruciate ruptures in 2015  and 2018.  And the evidence  
above from the vet does  suggest susceptibility to the disease.
Given this, Im satisfied the problems  R suffered  does fit into the definition  of incident. It 
therefore follows that because the problems R experienced in 2015 and 2018 are one 
Ref: DRN97666033incident the maximum claim benefit detailed in the policy does apply. RSA paid the 
maximum claim benefit for vet fees to Mrs P in 2015. So, Im satisfied there isnt any further 
cover for the problem  R experienced. 
In addition, the policy only provides cover for vet fees for a period of 12 months  from the 
start of an incident. And as the incident  started in 2015 Im satisfied  Mrs Ps claim in 2018 
falls outside of this 12 month period. 
Because of the above, Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly  in its decision not to pay Mrs Ps 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I 
dont require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9766603