K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PC will not refund disputed transactions  on his debit 
card made whilst he was abroad. Mr W says these transactions were  not him and he would 
like them refunded.  He also complains about  the service hes received from Barclays when 
pursuing the complaint and on other occasions.  Mr W would like compensation for this 
including loss of earnings and expenses
Background
Mr W has an account with Barclays.
Whilst abroad between  20 and 21 May 2018 five transaction totalling £5,189.94 were  made  
on Mr Ws debit  card.
Mr W originally  told Barclays that he was disputing  five transactions  but on bringing his 
complaint to our service said he authorised  the first two but not the last three.
c
Date and Time Amount Location
20 May 2018- 8.29pm £132.82 Our Western Bar Chip and PIN
20 May 2018- 9.58pm £132.82 Our Western Bar Chip and PIN
20 May 2018- 10.16pm £1,006.19 Our Western Bar Chip and PIN
20 May 2018- 11.14pm £2,012.35 Our Western Bar Chip and PIN
21 May 2018- 12.16am £2,012.35 Our Western Bar Chip and PIN
Mr W said he found out when checking  his balance  on 23 May that a significant amount of 
money had been  taken  from his account.
Mr W has said he paid for the first two transactions  with Chip and PIN. He thinks he left his 
card behind the bar but didnt spend  any more on the card.  And he collected the card at the 
end of the night.
One of the last transactions  was refunded by the club on 21 May 2018.  Due to exchange  
rate fluctuations £1,909.99 credited Mr Ws account on 30 May 2018.
Mr W says because of the way Barclays had been dealing  with his account  before the 
Disputed transactions he was faced with no option  but to return to the UK to pursue his DT 
claim incurring  expenses  of £691.49.
Mr W says he came  back to the UK on the 22 May 2018. And went  into his local branch to 
report the fraudulent  activity on the 23 May 2018.
Mr W says that Barclays lost his paperwork and he had to resubmit his claim on 11 June.
Barclays declined his complaint, they said that all the disputed  transactions  were made using 
the genuine card and PIN. This together with genuine spend after the disputed  transactions 
and no incorrect PIN attempts made Barclays continue  to hold Mr W responsible for the 
disputed transactions.  The evidence showed that Mr W was in possession of his card as he 
had used it to travel back to the UK. They  agreed that they could have handled his complaint  
Ref: DRN98476752better and Barclays have paid Mr W £50 by way of apology  in recognition of the poor 
service.
Mr W was unhappy with Barclays  response, so he complained to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said he thought Mr W had made the 
disputed transactions  that evening at the bar, but the transactions  were for more than Mr W 
had thought he was spending. He thought Barclays could  have  done  more to protect Mr W 
as the amount of each transaction was out of character. He thought  Barclays  should refund 
him the Disputed  transactions.  And recommended Barclays  pay a total of £3,146.45  as well 
as £50 already  paid,  for the inconvenience  of the original forms having  gone missing.
Mr W agreed with the view.
Barclays disagreed.  They  said their fraud detection  system monitors transactions usage but 
doesnt review account activity on an individual  basis to look for continuity  or specific
changes in the consumers spending.
They also said that in order to initiate a chargeback Mr W would have  needed evidence  that 
he had been overcharged.
A second view was sent to Mr W. The investigator agreed that Mr W should  be refunded but 
increased the compensation for inconvenience  to £150. She thought  that Barclays should 
have done more to prevent the transactions from taking place as there was high value 
transactions taking  place  over a short period of two hours.
Barclays disagreed  with the second  view and reiterated their original position.
Mr W was unhappy that the view didnt compensate him for the expenses and losses he had 
incurred which he calculated at around £15,000.  This is made up of around  70 hours of 
wasted time at his hourly rate of £200  per hour as well as £1,000  in expenses including the 
flights back to the UK and phone calls.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me to decide.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
The Disputed transactions
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr W liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more  likely  than not, he made or authorised  them himself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ws genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is 
not, on its own enough to enable Barclays to hold Mr W liable. So, I also need  to think  about  
whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr W consented to the disputed 
transactions being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude Mr W 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
Ref: DRN98476753The disputed card transactions  were made  using  the genuine card and PIN. Mr W 
has said he has never given  his PIN to anyone. Mr W has said he left the card behind  
the bar. He thinks  that the club must  have  got access to his PIN through the CCTV. 
Mr W has said the bar was dark and busy so I think it would be difficult  to gain 
access to his PIN in these  conditions. And there were no errors  in entering the PIN.
If I accept  that if there was a PIN compromise through CCTV then I would expect 
more transactions  being made  using  the card, instead of the three transactions Mr W 
disputes. Mr W had over £33,000  in his account  so I find it implausible  that a 
fraudster with access to his PIN and card would not try to maximise his gain in the 
time available  by using the card as much  as possible.
Mr W says he picked the card up at the end of the evening. He has said he didnt 
report the transactions to the bank  because this was his only card and he needed it 
to travel back to the UK. I can see that Mr W did use his card on his travel back to the 
UK. 
If Mr Ws story is to be believed  he spent two and a half hours in the bar without 
using his card. I dont  think this is likely. I think if he put his card behind  the bar, he 
must have been expecting to pay for something.
Mr W says he logged into his bank on 21 May 2018 and after that made the decision 
to come back to the UK. The evidence shows that Mr W booked his flights  to the UK 
before logging into online banking. The flights were booked on 21 May 2018  at 
10:21am and then Mr W logged into online banking shortly afterwards at 10:25am. 
The decision to return to the UK must have been made before noticing the 
transactions in dispute. So, I cant see that his returning to the UK was because of 
the Disputed transactions.
Mr W said that he found  only one receipt  for the transactions he made but he hadnt 
kept it. This suggest that the receipt  must have been for a transaction  of £132.82. 
Later he told us that the receipt  he found was for a high value and thats  how he 
knew that something had gone  on. However, if Mr W didnt carry out the three  
disputed transactions,  I cant see how he would have a receipt for one of them.
Mr W had one of the transactions refunded to his card,  the transaction carried out at 
11.14pm. He has said he contacted  the bar, hes also said his friend contacted the 
bar. I accept that Mr Ws friend may have  contacted the bar to ask for the refund,  but 
the transaction was refunded on the same  day. I think its unusual behaviour for a 
club trying  to fraudulently take money  from bar users to refund money to one such  
user. It goes against the purpose  of the fraud.
Mr W said that he wasnt concerned about  the card not having been  cancelled as he 
was monitoring the account to ensure no further disputed  transactions took place. He 
was doing this by logging into his online  banking. I can see that Mr W logged  into 
online banking on 21 May 2018 at 10:25  and 23 May 2018 at 10:04. These are logins 
before the disputed  activity was reported to the bank.
Mr Ws recollection of events is hazy.  However, there is a discrepancy with the 
information he gave  to the bank  and what he told this service.  For example, Mr W 
Ref: DRN98476754told the bank that five disputed transactions took place whereas he told us he had 
carried out the first two transactions.
I appreciate that the events took place some time ago but there  are discrepancies  in Mr Ws 
story that make his testimony  implausible.  I also think  that the pattern of transactions  
together with the refund  of one of the disputed transactions makes it unlikely that this was a 
fraud. I think  it more likely that Mr W consented  to the disputed transactions and later 
regretted the spending he had made  in the bar and therefore disputed  the transactions. I do 
believe that Mr W was wrongly charged  for one of the transactions which  was why it was 
refunded to him on the same  day.
Taking everything into account,  I find on balance that Mr M authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows Barclays is entitled  to hold him liable for them.
Blocked Transactions  unrelated to the DTs
Mr W has said that Barclays blocked his account  on numerous occasions making it difficult  
for him to transact business.  He has provided information regarding  three occasions when 
he had to contact  the bank  in order to reset the card and allow the payment to go through. 
On one of the occasions he says he had to do this twice.
Ive looked at the evidence provided  by the bank as well as information  provided by Mr W. 
Mr W has said that the transactions took place between March  and May 2018. Barclays  
have said that Mr W failed  security  on two occasions during that time and the account  was 
temporarily suspended. I appreciate that not being able to use his account  whilst abroad is 
very frustrating, but Mr W confirmed that following contact  with Barclays  the matters  were 
resolved.
Mr W has also said that on 16 July 2018 he tried to transfer £10,000 to another account he 
held with a different bank. This transfer  was blocked by Barclays.
I have seen evidence  that the transaction was blocked by Barclays pending  customer 
confirmation that the transfer was genuine.  I have also seen that the fraud team attempted to 
call Mr W but there  was no message  service  available.
When I consider both these issues, I am mindful  that Barclays  have a responsibility to 
monitor accounts and any payments  made  or received to counter various  risks including  
preventing fraud and scams. And this can involve having taken additional steps, or make 
additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases declined to make  a 
payment altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial harm  from 
fraud.
So, although  I appreciate the frustration and inconvenience, I am satisfied that Barclays  
were entitled  to review  a payment out of the account if they were concerned about  it. This 
was for Mr Ws protection. I dont think Barclays have done anything  wrong  when they 
queried and blocked the transfers. In summary  Barclays are entitled  to review and block  
payments so I dont  think they have done  anything wrong here.
Mr W has said that given the service he had received  from the bank in the previous months 
he had no confidence  he would be able to resolve  the issue from abroad and he decided  to 
travel back  to the UK. Mr W has said that Barclays should pay for his travel to the UK. As I 
have mentioned I appreciate there  was an element of frustration in having  three  transactions 
Ref: DRN98476755queried and needing to phone the bank. I dont  think this warrants  Mr W deciding to return to 
the UK and seeking to recover these costs  from Barclays. I have also taken into account  that 
Mr W seems to have  booked his flight before he had become aware  of the Disputed  
transactions. So, I wont be asking Barclays to cover  his travel  costs in May 2018.
Distress and Inconvenience
Mr W has requested  around £15,000  in compensation  for pursuing this complaint.  This 
amount includes  expenses and an amount for his time calculated at an hourly rate. I 
appreciate Mr W is frustrated and there  have  been  some service issues  which  Barclays  have 
acknowledged. However, we dont award compensation by calculating  an hourly rate.
The first investigator noted that the bank  had acknowledged they could have provided better 
service to Mr W when  he reported the disputed transactions,  they paid Mr W £50 in 
recognition of that. The first investigator  thought the offer of £50 was fair in the 
circumstances. The second  investigator awarded a total of £150 in compensation for the 
failures in customer service.
Having considered the amounts and bearing  in mind  Mr w has been  paid £50, I dont think  it 
necessary for me to award any more. In deciding  this I have  taken into account that I think  
its more likely Mr W authorised the transactions he has complained  about. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr W wont agree, I will not be asking Barclays to do anything else.
In my provisional decision I thought in summary  having looked at the evidence  I was minded 
to not uphold the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays have said they have nothing further  to add. Mr W has said the bar is known for 
scamming people and he reiterates that he didnt make the transactions.
My findings
Although Mr W has provided comments,  he has not provided any further evidence. I have 
nevertheless re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen  nothing  to change  my 
mind and so my provisional  findings stand.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2021.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9847675