K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc failed to tell him his replacement credit card hadnt 
been activated when he called. As a result, when he tried to make a payment for a visa the 
transaction was declined.  
background
Mr A has a Santander credit card. In December 2017 Santander sent him a replacement 
card and instructions  on how to activate it. 
In May 2018  Mr A called Santander  to update  his phone number. During the call he advised 
he was going  to use his card to make a payment in the following weeks  and asked if there 
were any reasons his card would be blocked.  Santander explained that if a transaction is 
blocked a team will get in touch but that it couldnt  guarantee a future transaction  wouldnt be 
held. 
In July 2018 Mr A tried to pay for his visa with the Santander credit card but it didnt go 
through. Santander later explained  the credit card it had sent Mr A in December  2017  had 
never been activated so it wasnt possible to complete the transaction. Mr A complained  but 
Santander didnt  agree itd made  a mistake.  
Mr A went  on to refer his complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at what had 
happened. But they didnt  ask Santander to take any further action as they didnt feel an 
error had been  made. Mr A remains unhappy and asked for his case to be appealed so its 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As said that he thinks Santander shouldve told him that his card hadnt  been activated 
when he called in May 2018. And I can understand why he feels that step shouldve  been 
taken by Santander. But I have to be fair to both sides and Ive carefully  thought about 
Santanders actions  when it sent him a new card and when  he called in May 2018.  
I think the issue started when Santander sent Mr A a replacement card in December 2017. 
Mr A has confirmed  the card had a sticker on it explaining how to activate it and Im satisfied 
Santander also wrote  to him with that information.  This wasnt the first card Mr A had been 
sent by Santander so I think he wouldve been  through a similar process before and been 
reasonably aware  of what he needed  to do. Looking at everything,  I think  Santander made it 
clear that Mr A needed  to activate his card before it could  be used to make  purchases. 
So I need to consider whether, when  Mr A asked a general question about blocks that could 
stop a future payment  going through, the call handler shouldve gone on to check if hed 
activated the card thatd  been sent to him several  months earlier. I note the nature of Mr As 
question was fairly general and came after a detailed discussion about updating his phone  
number. I also note that the credit card account  wasnt new and the replacement  card had 
been sent to him several months prior to the call in May 2018. 
Ref: DRN97892082Taking everything together, I wouldnt have expected the call handler to have specifically 
checked whether  Mr A had activated  the last card Santander  sent him when he asked about 
potential blocks on future payments.  
Mr A has correctly  said that Santander  asked him for detailed information  in order  to update 
his communication  details  but that doesnt  mean it was clear  that the card itd sent in 
December 2017  hadnt been  activated.
I appreciate that the failed transaction led to some  problems  for Mr A. But Ive not found 
Santander treated  Mr A unfairly or provided unclear and incomplete information when he 
called in May 2018. For the reasons given above,  Im not asking Santander to do anything 
else to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 7 February 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9789208