K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt update her address which led to her 
current account being defaulted. 
background
In 2016 Miss G complained to Bank of Scotland because it hadnt  updated  her address 
despite being asked to. Bank of Scotland responded on 26 November 2016 and paid her 
£150 compensation. Bank of Scotlands  response  said that Miss G should visit her local 
branch with identification to amend her address. 
Miss Gs account had a £250 overdraft limit. After  Bank of Scotland paid the £150 
compensation on 28 November 2016 the account was around £80 overdrawn. Over the 
following months Miss G continued  to use her overdraft to make payments. Interest and 
charges were also applied  which increased the balance. No funds were paid into the account 
and in March 2017 Miss Gs balance went over the agreed £250 overdraft limit. 
Miss G has explained that she didnt immediately visit a local branch to amend  her address 
after Bank of Scotland responded to her in November 2016 as she didnt realise the account  
was overdrawn.  Shes  told us that when she did go on to visit her local branch but it didnt 
update her address.
Bank of Scotland took the step of defaulting Miss Gs account in July 2017 because no 
payments had been made to reduce the outstanding  debt. Miss G later complained and 
Bank of Scotland responded on 31 August 2017. Bank of Scotland didnt uphold  Miss Gs 
complaint and said it had previously  advised  the steps she needed to take to change her 
address. Miss G went  on to refer her complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened. She said Miss G had waited too long to refer 
part of her complaint  to us because we werent  asked to get involved within  six months of 
Bank of Scotlands final response dated  26 November 2016. The investigator didnt uphold 
the rest of Miss Gs complaint as she didnt amend her address. Miss G didnt accept, so her 
complaint was passed to me to make a decision.  I previously issued a decision explaining 
why our service couldnt look at the first part of Miss Gs complaint.  This decision is about 
what happened after Bank of Scotland issued its final response  on 26 November  2016.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotlands final response dated  26 November 2016 said Miss G should  visit a 
branch with identification to amend her address. Miss Gs explained that she didnt initially 
take that step because she had no reason to think she was overdrawn or at risk of falling 
behind on the account. Miss G says that she did later try and get her branch to amend the 
address but wasnt  successful. As a result, she wasnt aware her account  was overdrawn or 
that Bank  of Scotland intended to default  it. 
Ive looked at the bank  statements and can see that after Bank of Scotland  paid the £150 
compensation into Miss Gs account  on 28 November 2016  it was around £80 overdrawn.  In 
the following  months, Miss G continued to use her debit card to make payments which 
Ref: DRN97623642increased the overdraft  balance.  No payments were made into the account. As Miss G 
wasnt making payments  into the account but was continuing to use her debit card I think 
she wouldve been aware that the balance was increasing. Once the outstanding balance 
exceeded the overdraft limit without any payments being made, Bank  of Scotland took the 
step of defaulting the account. I think Bank of Scotlands decision to default the account was 
reasonable. 
Miss G previously  complained that Bank of Scotland had registered  negative information on 
her credit file because it had failed  to update her address. So I think she was aware  of how 
important it was for the bank to have up to date records.  Miss G says that after 
Bank of Scotland responded to her complaint  on 26 November 2016 she initially  didnt  try to 
change her address.  But she later visited her local branch but it didnt make  the necessary 
changes. Bank of Scotland says it has no record of Miss G asking it to change  her address 
in branch. Im sorry to disappoint  Miss G but Im not persuaded  I can uphold her complaint. 
Bank of Scotland says it cant  find any record of Miss G visiting a branch to amend  her 
address. And even  if I were to accept  that she unsuccessfully tried to change her address Id 
have to balance  that against  the fact that she continued to spend on the account without 
making any payments  towards the outstanding  balance. 
The statements  show  that Miss G continued  to use her overdraft, increasing the outstanding  
balance beyond its limit. As Ive said above, I think Miss G wouldve been  aware  she was 
using the overdraft and needed to make payments towards the outstanding  balance. 
Bank of Scotland didnt write to Miss Gs new address  but thats because it says she didnt 
update it. But I think she would have been aware she needed to make payments towards the 
overdraft. Im sorry to disappoint Miss G but I think Bank of Scotland  has dealt with her 
complaint fairly so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9762364