K821x#15complaint
Ms D says PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
her. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 27 February  2020. A copy of my provisional decision is
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  the 
complaint should  be partially upheld. I thought that if Mr Lender had carried out sufficient 
checks before lending to Ms D it would have seen that the borrowing at loan four was 
unreasonable because it wasnt sustainable for Ms D.
Neither party provided me with anything further to consider in response to my provisional  
decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything more  to consider, I see no reason to alter my 
provisional decision and confirm those findings.
For completeness, Ill repeat what Mr Lender needs  to do to put the matter right.
Ref: DRN90144542putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
If there is still an outstanding balance due on Ms Ds loan and Mr Lender  has transferred it to 
a third party, then Mr Lender should buy back the loan if it can. If Mr Lender cant  buy back 
the loan, then it needs to work  with the third party to make sure the following is achieved:
refund  all interest and charges Ms D paid for loan four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
rework loan four applying all payments  made  by Ms D as if they went towards  the 
principal amount borrowed. But importantly,  Mr Lender needs  to make sure that it 
collects no more than the principal sum lent. 
If and when the amount Ms D has paid exceeds the amount she was lent, any 
further amounts  paid should be treated as overpayments. Any overpayments that 
may have been made should  be refunded to Ms D with 8% simple  interest  from the 
date the overpayment was made to the date of settlement ;
if there is still an outstanding balance, any refunds  should  be used to repay any 
balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If there  is any surplus this should be 
repaid to Ms D;
any information recorded about  loan four is adverse. So, all entries  about loan four 
should be removed  from Ms Ds credit file. Mr Lender does not have to remove loan 
four from Ms Ds credit  file until it has been  repaid, but any adverse information 
recorded about this loan should still be removed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Ms Ds complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  should  put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90144543copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Ms D says PDL Finance  Limited, trading  as Mr Lender (Mr Lender),  irresponsibly  lent to her. 
background
The complaint is about four short-term  loans Mr Lender provided to Ms D between January  2017 and 
June 2018. Ms Ds borrowing history  is as follows (I have rounded up the figures):
Loan Date  Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 05/01/2017 15/06/2017 5 £200.00 £106.00
2 23/06/2017 15/12/2017 6 £270.00 £103.00
3 16/12/2017 15/06/2018 6 £200.00 £80.00
4 15/06/2018 Outstanding 6 £400.00 £156.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ds complaint as they thought loan four shouldnt have been given  
as if proportionate  checks  had been carried  out it would  most likely have shown  that Ms D couldnt 
sustainably repay her loans. 
Another of our adjudicators  further  considered  the case and concluded that while they agreed that 
loan four shouldnt have been given, the reasons for upholding it should  be different. Proportionate 
checks would have shown  that Ms D was borrowing  from other short-term lenders  and the amounts 
she owed were  a large proportion  of her income.
Mr Lender didnt agree with the outcome. Ms D didnt provide anything further to the assessments. 
As the complaint remains  unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Ms D could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN90144544the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish whether 
Ms D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable  on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Ms Ds complaint.
Ms D didnt comment about either  adjudicators opinions  that loans  one to three shouldnt be upheld.  
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing  disagreement  about  these loans. So I wont be 
making a decision about this lending. But the loans were  part of the borrowing relationship Ms D had 
with Mr Lender. So, it is something I will take into account when  considering the other loans she took.  
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Ms D, with a view to seeing  if 
there was a point at which Mr Lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised  that it shouldnt  have 
provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ds case, I think that this point was reached by loan four. I 
say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have  realised  Ms D was not managing  to repay  her loans 
sustainably. Ms D had been indebted to Mr Lender for 17 months.  So, Mr Lender ought to 
have realised it was more likely  than not Ms D was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous loan was leaving  in her finances and that Ms Ds indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Ms Ds first loan was for £200  and loan four was for double the amount of £400.  At this point 
Mr Lender ought  to have known that Ms D was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
There was a quick uptake in re-borrowing  after the previous loan was repaid which can be an 
indication that Ms D may not have been managing her finances.  Loan two was taken  out a 
week after loan one was repaid, loan three was taken out the day after loan two had been 
repaid and loan four was taken on the same day loan three was repaid. And if Mr Lender had 
carried out a more  in-depth  review of Ms Ds finances it would have seen evidence that she 
was borrowing from other short-term loan providers at the same time she was borrowing from 
Mr Lender. 
Ms D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mr Lender.  As Ive said above,  
loan four was taken  out 17 months after Ms Ds first. And it was for a larger  amount. Ms D had 
Ref: DRN90144545paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to Mr Lender over an extended 
period.
I think  that Ms D lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan four onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Ms Ds indebtedness by allowing  her to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length  of time over which Ms D borrowed  was likely to have had negative  implications on 
Ms Ds ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost 
loans.
So, like the adjudicator  Im also upholding  the complaint about loan four and Mr Lender should  put 
things right.
putting things  right  what Mr Lender  needs  to do
If there  is still an outstanding balance due on Ms Ds loan and Mr Lender has transferred it to a third 
party then Mr Lender  should buy back  the loan if it can. If Mr Lender cant  buy back  the loan, then it 
needs to work  with the third party to make sure the following is achieved:
refund all interest and charges Ms D paid loan four;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
rework  loan four applying  all payments made by Ms D as if they went towards  the principal 
amount borrowed. But importantly, Mr Lender needs to make sure that it collects no more  
than the principal  sum lent. 
If and when  the amount Ms D has paid exceeds the amount she was lent, any further 
amounts paid should  be treated as overpayments. Any overpayments  that may have been 
made should be refunded to Ms D with 8% simple interest from the date the overpayment  
was made to the date of settlement ;
if there is still an outstanding balance,  any refunds  should  be used to repay any balance  
remaining on the outstanding loan. If there is any surplus this should be repaid to Ms D;
any information recorded about loan four is adverse. So all entries  about loan four should be 
removed from Ms Ds credit file. Mr Lender does not have to remove loan four from Ms Ds 
credit file until it has been repaid, but any adverse information recorded about this loan should 
still be removed.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must  give 
Ms D a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im provisionally partially  upholding Ms Ds complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Ref: DRN9014454