K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited wrongly sold him two unsuitable 
savings plans in 1989 and 1991.
background
His representative said:
There is no evidence of a requirement  for long term savings
There is no evidence of other savings plans being discussed with Mr H who was only 
23 at the time, and whose circumstances were likely to change
There is no evidence he had sufficient  savings on deposit to commit to these plans
The term of the plans were misrepresented as being suitable for a medium  term but 
the charging structure meant they were unlikely to have any meaningful value unless 
kept for the long term
An adjudicator at this service  felt his complaint should be upheld.
She said that although Mr H kept the plans  for a significant period of time, if he had 
surrendered them in the early years, it was unlikely he would have received much value, if 
any. She noted  that as the policy provided  life cover, units were cancelled to cover this cost, 
which had an impact  on the value of the policy. Given Mr Hs age and circumstances at the 
times of advice (23 and 25, single and with no dependents), she wasnt persuaded that a 
savings plan with life cover was appropriate.
She also noted that as Mr H was likely to have been a higher-rate taxpayer, any surrender  
within the first 10 years  would have  left him liable to tax at a higher rate.
She said Sanlam should  pay compensation based on the appropriate redress  formula 
relating to mis-sales from this date i.e. a comparison based on the returns  he would have got 
via the Bank  of Englands  base rate plus 1%.
Sanlam disagreed, and said:
Mr H, at both advice  points, had a good salary, owned his home and there  is no 
evidence that the plans proved unaffordable
Given he paid in £50 a month  to the first plan, he could  have been  recommended,  
and taken out, its flexible and renewable 10 year savings  plan. So if this service  
intends to uphold his complaint, it suggests that redress should be based on this 
comparison
Even though  Mr H only paid £50 a month  into the second plan  and the minimum 
monthly premium for 10 year plans had risen  to £70 - it suggests the 10 year plans 
returns should also be used  to calculate  potential redress on his other policy
The adjudicator did not agree, saying:
The fact that Mr H was able to pay premiums for a significant  period of time, does not 
mean that even  a 10 year savings plan would  have been appropriate advice
While  Mr H, according to the advisors record, wanted a medium to long term plan, 
she felt the word medium suggested  a minimum of five years, not at least  10
Ref: DRN93637142Also, Sanlams 10 year savings  plan still included initial  set up charges and life cover  
costs,  and given  Mr Hs age and circumstances she still did not feel a savings plan 
with life cover wouldve been  appropriate
She said that as Mr H could not have taken out the plan in 1991 given he committed 
to only £50 a month,  it would  not be appropriate to base redress on a policy that he 
could not have had
Sanlam replied, saying:
At the time, a medium term policy would have been viewed  as being 10 to 15 years
The initial set-up charge for the 10 year term product is based on only six times the 
month premium (taken  up front). As is usual  for a 'qualifying' product it would include 
a very small amount of life cover  so costs would not have had an impact
Given the amount  of time Mr H paid the premiums, affordability  was not an issue. So, 
even though, technically speaking, he was not paying a sufficient monthly premium to 
take out its 10 year policy by 1991  the extra  £20.00 a month  wouldnt  have presented 
him with a problem
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator, and broadly for the same reasons.
Given Mr H was just 23 and 24 at the times of advice, I do not believe the advisor could have 
safely assessed the likelihood of him wanting  or being able to afford to keep these plans 
for the long-term, 25 years or more i.e. to continue to pay these monthly premiums and 
retain the policies  for the vast majority  of his working life, during which  he could find his 
circumstances, finances and commitments  changing radically.
I also think the documentation was highly misleading, implying  that these plans were suitable 
for a range of short and medium term objectives when, in reality,  they needed  to be retained 
for the long term to spread  the charges appropriate. 
For example, the sales literature refers to these plans being suitable for: those unexpected 
and unbudgeted expenses which afflict all from time to timecoping with a sudden family 
emergency repair bills for storm damage  to your home or garden. Loss  of income due to 
accident or serious ill-health. That new car you have  always promised yourself. An extension  
to your homethe holiday of a lifetime.  Or simply cash  to provide your children with a flying 
start in life. 
Clearly many of these emergencies could  arise at any time while  hardly any of them  could 
fairly be described as exclusively long-term. 
For this reason, I am satisfied that Mr H was not put in a fully informed position to decide  
whether to take out either  of the policies, and if the advisor had made clear the exclusively 
long-term commitment required I do not believe he would have bought  into either given  his 
age and circumstances.
When this service concludes, as in this case,  that a business has given unsuitable advice 
our objective  is to put the complainant back in the position they might now be in but for that 
Ref: DRN93637143poor advice.  As Mr Hs monthly premium would not have been sufficient to purchase  a 10 
year plan in 1991  compensation clearly  cannot  be based on such  a comparison. Sanlam 
claims that Mr H might  have paid the extra 40% to commit to this plan but there is no 
evidence to support  this speculation, and I am very surprised that it has suggested this 
would be an acceptable  basis for redress given this services  establish approach.
I also dont believe redress on for the first mis-sale  should be based on its 10 year plan. 
Firstly, Mr H had no obvious need for life cover so however modest  the deductions these 
unnecessarily reduced the value of his invested  sums. I also agree with the adjudicator that 
even a plan requiring a minimum 10 year commitment was not, in my view, a suitable 
recommendation for a 23 year old, particularly one who had virtually no savings at the first 
advice point.
While Mr H was single  and had a decent  salary, there  was every possible that his 
circumstances would  change over the next decade, involving potentially marriage, children 
or other commitments  such  that he would not want or be able to afford to continue  making  
the premiums required, especially given the absence of a significant amount  of disposable 
savings.
Sanlam must therefore compare the returns Mr H received when he surrendered  each of 
these plans with what he might have got via a more suitably flexible savings plan with no life 
cover charges. To do so it should  calculate how much the same premiums invested  on the 
same dates would  have grown  by if the returns had equalled the Bank  of Englands  base 
rate plus 1% (the formula this service  believes is fair when assessing  potential loss on cases  
from these dates).
If either  or both of the two comparisons  shows a loss it must pay this figure/s and add 8% 
simple interest per annum to the loss figure/s  from the dates he surrendered  each of the 
plans to the date of settlement of this complaint. This is to compensate  Mr H for the loss of 
use of this money during the intervening period.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Sanlam  Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9363714