K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that their mortgage adviser mis-sold them life assurance policies on 
several occasions, from 2009 to 2015. 
They say the adviser failed  to explain the type of cover they held,  or the reasons for revising  
the policies on each subsequent occasion.  This has left them  confused about the policies, 
and unaware that they didnt include critical illness benefit. Openwork Limited takes 
responsibility for the advice, since the adviser was acting as its appointed representative.   
background
Mr and Mrs M met with an adviser  from Munro, Neil & Osborne in 2009. He has been an 
appointed representative of Openwork since 30 December 2008.  
They took out two single  life term assurance policies, each on a decreasing  basis and set up 
for a 20-year term. As Mr and Mrs M had a joint liability (a capital repayment mortgage on 
their residential home) to protect, each policy  had the same  sum assured.   
In the intervening years, the adviser  reviewed their protection needs  again. This took place 
in 2011, 2013 and 2015. At those times,  differing decreasing term assurance policies were 
taken out, though each  had the same  remaining term up until 2029. In 2011 and 2015, the 
policies were separate and on a single life basis,  whereas  in 2013 they began joint cover.  
The 2015  policies were taken out with the existing  insurer. However, the 2011 and 2013 
policies involved a change to a different insurer.   
Mr and Mrs M have  since appointed a new financial adviser. 
Mr M sadly became unwell in 2018,  at which time he required major surgery.  Mrs M called 
their insurer  to pursue  a critical  illness claim.  However, they discovered they did not have 
critical illness benefit included on their policies.  
In July 2018, Mrs M complained to Munro, Neil & Osborne on behalf of herself and her 
husband. She said the nature of the policies was not made clear to them. She said the 
adviser had never revisited their protection needs with them face to face since  the first sale 
in 2009. If he had done so, they could have  included critical illness  cover. 
She also said the adviser had changed their cover many times without them  being  present. 
This has led to confusion as to what the cover consists of, and an unnecessary  change  of 
the type of term of the policy (level term, when  it should be decreasing term). The changes  
also led to the adviser  missing off information that Mr and Mrs M had each disclosed about  
their family medical history. Mrs M said they were now worried  that the insurer could void 
their policies if it was considered they had withheld relevant information.   
Finally, she explained  how she and Mr M had been shocked to discover  that they didnt have 
critical illness benefit. 
The adviser rejected  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in a letter dated 30 August  2019. It said it 
was commonplace  for advisers  to revisit ongoing protection  needs  with their customers. And 
the various sales had all been  undertaken  with Mr and Mrs Ms knowledge  and consent.  
Further, the insurer wrote  to Mr and Mrs M on each occasion with copies of their 
applications, so they had opportunity to make corrections or to ask questions if required.
Ref: DRN93571562The adviser said he had given Mr and Mrs M quotations for critical illness  cover, but theyd 
declined these on affordability grounds. The letter concluded by noting the complaint was 
unfounded. However, no referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman  Service were given in 
the letter.  
Mr and Mrs M referred their concerns to this service,  where it was noted that Munro, Neil & 
Osborne did not fall within our jurisdiction. However, it was identified that the adviser may 
have been a representative  of another regulated network. 
Mr and Mrs M therefore pursued the matter with Openwork, noting that they felt the adviser 
shouldnt have sold them  their policies as Munro, Neil & Osborne was not authorised by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  to give such advice. 
Openwork accepted responsibility for the complaint. It clarified with Mr and Mrs M that the 
adviser was acting as its appointed representative  and that it was registered  with the FCA.  
Openwork issued a final response letter to the complaint in March  2019. It recognised  that in 
2015, the adviser had failed to include Mr and Mrs Ms correct family history  and Mrs Ms 
occupation on their protection policy applications.  It apologised for this. It did note, however, 
that Mr and Mrs M were each sent copies of their policy applications to check  in November 
2015  and they did not make any corrections.   
In any event, Openwork  contacted the insurer in February 2019. It confirmed that it had 
updated the omitted information, and it did not have any effect on the price or the validity  of 
their policies.  
In terms of the sales of the various policies,  Openwork did not believe the adviser had acted 
unreasonably. He had recorded  that he had spoken with Mr and Mrs M on each occasion. 
He had supplied  suitability letters along  with his advice, and ensured the sum assured on 
their policies reflected  their needs and liabilities  at the relevant times. He also advised Mr 
and Mrs M to cancel their old policies once  the new ones had started, and they had done so.   
Openwork did not accept  that the adviser  had merely  submitted  applications  without Mr and 
Mrs Ms consent. That was because Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances had changed over the 
years, and the adviser wouldnt have known  that unless he had spoken with them.  
Openwork did offer Mr and Mrs M £100  to reflect  the error that was made in 2015  with the 
missing information on their policy applications.  
Mr and Mrs M said they did not agree with Openworks findings. Specifically, Mr M said he 
felt Openwork had merely relied on the documents from the times of the sales,  but it did not 
recognise that these  could have been falsified. He said at no time since 2009  had he or Mrs 
M met with the adviser. If they had done,  theyd have taken out critical illness insurance.  
Mrs M also reiterated that because there was no further face to face advice,  they were not 
given any sufficient explanation as to why their cover levels and types  changed in 2011, 
2013 and 2015. She also repeated her concerns that she and Mr M have been left in 
financial difficulties without critical illness cover, along with the worry that their current 
policies could be deemed void by the insurer on the grounds of misrepresentation. 
Ref: DRN93571563Openwork provided  some  further  comments to Mr and Mrs M in May 2019. It said that it 
remained of the view that the sales were  appropriate. Mr and Mrs M had sent further 
evidence of a mortgage on a second  property from 2008, but this didnt alter that Openwork 
had no reason to believe  the 2011, 2013, and 2015  advices were  appropriate.  It was not 
party to the communications at the time of each sale but it felt the adviser had proposed  
suitable policies,  where Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances had changed.   
Openwork noted  that Mr and Mrs M were particularly upset about the error the adviser made  
in 2015, and it agreed to increase its offer of compensation to £500.  Mr and Mrs M didnt 
accept that offer.  
The complaint was referred  to this service, where  it was assessed by one of our 
investigators. He said that he felt Mr and Mrs Ms version of events was the more likely, 
because the adviser  had been unable to supply  any record  of telephone calls from the 2011, 
2013 or 2015 sales. He believed them when they said they didnt receive any suitability  
documentation from the adviser. He took the view that the adviser had been churning the 
policies periodically,  and specifically without properly informing Mr and Mrs M.  
Further, he did not believe there was sufficient evidence to justify applying  for new cover at 
the times  of the subsequent sales after 2009.   
Openwork didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, it said:
an adviser regularly  reviewing and re-brokering a client's protection policy, tailored to 
suit their requirements, is not 'churning;
most  protection  business is regularly reviewed  to ensure that the cover continues to 
meet with a clients circumstances,  needs and requirements (which can change over 
time) and to ensure  that the cost remains affordable  and competitive;
it does not accept that Mr and Mrs M had no awareness that their policies had been 
replaced, as they have received  various documentation from the providers thanking 
them for applying  for their cover,  schedules setting out the policy details  and annual  
statements reminding them about their cover;
even if it was to accept that they did not receive letters  from the adviser (which it 
does not), the volume of documentation  Mr and Mrs M have  received  from the two 
insurers informing them about their cover over the years simply could not have gone 
unnoticed;
whether the meetings were  face to face or over the telephone does not determine if 
the advice was unsuitable;
Mr and Mrs M had the opportunity at every advice point to review the protection  
being offered  to them and were not obligated to proceed with it;
on each occasion  they were sent cancellation  rights;
they did not have to wait to be offered critical illness cover. Openwork questions why 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  contact the adviser to set this up if they felt it was important to 
them.
Mr and Mrs M clarified that they did not say they were unaware of the changes   but that the 
adviser made those  changes without their awareness or consent.  They  say they merely 
accepted it, assuming he was acting in their best interests.  
Ref: DRN93571564my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator has reached, albeit that I have slightly  differing reasoning  for doing  so. 
Ultimately, I agree that Openwork  ought  to pay Mr and Mrs M £1000, to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience  theyve suffered because of the actions  of the appointed representative 
adviser. Ill explain why below.  
When Mr and Mrs M first met with the adviser,  they did not have any existing cover.  I have 
seen no evidence from either party of any mortgage documentation.  However,  the fact find 
information from the time of the advice  says that they had a joint capital repayment mortgage 
of £150,000.
However, Mrs M has shown us evidence of a second mortgage  in her name alone that was 
taken out in 2008 and which  she says was considered at the time of the advice in the total 
protection needs.
I accept Mr and Mrs Ms explanation, since by the time of the 2015 advice (but notably not in 
the 2011 or 2013 recommendations), the adviser  did record  that they held two outstanding  
capital repayment  mortgages which by this time the adviser noted  these  had a combined 
outstanding balance of £100,000. I believe it most  likely  that both mortgages were  
considered in the first advice, given the respective values of the two properties.  Despite this, 
it was not noted  that the term of the first mortgage was recorded  as 20 years,  whereas the 
second mortgage was 24 years. 
I note that there is no dispute from either  party as regards  Mr and Mrs Ms protection needs 
at the time of the 2009 advice. Where the premiums are maintained, a joint policy  taken out 
to match  a mortgage liability (or liabilities) will pay a sum broadly  equivalent  to the 
outstanding debt in the event that a policyholder  passes  away.  Personal protection policies 
are usually a prudent step to take where  any policyholder may have a documented liability  
such as a mortgage. And in this case,  Mr and Mrs M had three  dependent children at that 
time. 
In 2009, it was recorded that for a relatively  minimal  extra cost, they could each hold cover 
so as to have a further benefit  for their children  should the surviving  spouse  have also 
passed away. Given Mr and Mrs M held concerns about the cost of additional family 
protection level term cover, I dont  believe this was unreasonable  in the circumstances   
and the second of the two policies had a premium of less than £15 per month,  which was 
affordable for Mr and Mrs M.  
There is no evidence that any discussion was held regarding critical illness insurance. 
Though I understand it must have been  a shock to Mr and Mrs M that they werent aware of 
the nature  of their insurance  until Mr M became  poorly,  I dont believe Openwork or its 
appointed representative is liable for any loss of their right to make  a critical illness claim.  
The 2009  documentation  states that they were  seeking insurance in the event either one of 
them were  to pass away. If they had a requirement  for insurance in the event one of them 
was to become  seriously ill, Id expect to have seen a recorded  discussion around that. The 
further sets of advice  expressly record that Mr and Mrs M didnt want  to discuss any other 
type of protection (such  as income protection, critical illness,  or private medical insurance).  I 
Ref: DRN93571565dont believe  there would  be any clear reason that the adviser would fail to recommend 
further policies  of that nature to Mr and Mrs M if theyd wanted them.   
For the remaining  sets of advice, it is clear  that the recollections of the parties  in this 
complaint are completely opposed.  The adviser  says that there  was a requirement or need  
for fresh life cover applications; he says these were put forward by Mr and Mrs M at the 
relevant times. Mr and Mrs M say, for the most part, that the applications  happened  in their 
absence. They say this is supported by the content of the final 2015  application, where  their 
job titles were wrong.  
My view does  differ  from that of our investigator, in respect of the knowledge of the sales. I 
believe Mr and Mrs M were likely aware of what happened in 2011, 2013 and 2015. As 
Openwork has stated, the insurers wrote out to Mr and Mrs M on each  occasion,  their direct 
debits and payments  changed, and Mrs M has sent us in bank statements reflecting the 
knowledge of the different premiums. All of the correspondence Ive seen from the two 
insurers is correctly addressed and I believe Mr and Mrs M knew  that their policies had 
changed. 
The point Mr and Mrs M make  now is that there wasnt sufficient reasoning for any changes  
to their cover. In 2011, it was recorded  that Mr and Mrs M had remortgaged;  though  again,  
there is no explanation of any detail regarding the new mortgage liability  or any other 
evidence about  it.  
The adviser proposed  that they take out new policies with a different insurer. This was on the 
same basis  as those advised  in 2009  that two policies provided  them  with additional  
protection for their three dependents. And though the sum assured  was slightly  higher (albeit 
for a now 18-year term), the premiums increased by little over a pound per month for Mr M 
and a matter of pence for Mrs M.  
Nonetheless, I do not believe that it was strictly necessary to propose  Mr and Mrs M take out 
new policies, even  if their medical circumstances hadnt  changed.  Thats because they 
already held more  life cover between them than their liabilities by virtue  of having individual  
policies. At the time of the 2011  advice,  Mr and Mrs M had approximately £290,000  of 
decreasing life cover. 
By 2013, it was said on the fact find documentation that their mortgage (by this, I assume  for 
their jointly owned  property though it is unclear) was held on an interest-only basis  and that 
Mr and Mrs M wished  for it to revert to a capital repayment basis.  Because of this stated 
objective, the adviser proposed that they take out fresh life cover  with the same insurer,  for 
the same  sum assured  (£160,000), but this time in order to keep the premium to an 
affordable level we have arranged this on a joint life basis .  
I disagree with Openwork  that this recommendation was reasonable or appropriate in the 
circumstances. There was no evidenced reason for changing Mr and Mrs Ms cover nor is 
there any supporting  evidence that one of the mortgages had been changed to an interest 
only basis. In fact, there was a significant  disadvantage to re-broking their existing cover  
because the proposed sum assured was significantly  less. The combined  premium was 
£35.76 for the quoted  16-year term. However, at that time Mr and Mrs M already had 
decreasing term cover  of approximately  £300,000  with their combined premiums costing 
£37.47.  
Ref: DRN93571566Similarly, there was no clear or obvious  cause  to revisit Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances in 
2015. By this time, the adviser had made note of both mortgages, recording these as having 
the combined outstanding  debt of £100,000. He suggested they take out single life policies 
on a cost saving  basis  because it was only 62p more  than taking out joint cover.  
Nevertheless, if it wasnt for the unnecessary advice of 2013,  Mr and Mrs M would not have 
had joint cover as a means for comparison in 2015. 
Also, the adviser suggested a proposed  sum assured for both Mr and Mrs M of £130,000   
giving an extra initial £10,000  of extra cover on two policies for each of Mr and Mrs Ms 
children. These children  were all aged  over 18 at the time of the advice. Though  there could 
be a reasonable  need  for Mr and Mrs M to see their adult children as financial dependents, 
there was no supporting  information to suggest that was a consideration for them.  And, their 
existing joint decreasing term policy was noted on the fact find as having an outstanding  sum 
assured of £140,000.  
Again, I do not believe this was a reasonable proposal. Openwork has argued that by 
revisiting the 2013 advice in 2015,  the adviser  increased their cover  to an initial £260,000 for 
very little extra cost. However, I dont accept that this renders the advice suitable. 
There was no documented need for further  protection policies. The adviser stated that Mr 
and Mrs M specifically asked him for a conversation around term assurance policies but that 
they would  not entertain  a discussion about  other types of cover. He also said that on this 
occasion they specifically asked for advice on paying off a mortgage  in the event of death 
and providing  for dependants in the event of death.  But, Mr and Mrs M already held a joint 
term assurance policy which exceeded their documented  liabilities. And whilst it did have a 
term four years  shorter  than Mrs Ms mortgage, none of the advice over the four separate 
occasions addressed that particular shortfall. 
While I agree with Openwork that an adviser  regularly  reviewing  his or her clients  protection  
policies isnt an unreasonable  step to take, I do expect  that any resulting recommendation 
should be based on a clear, documented  need  or requirement  yet there  was no supporting 
evidence of such a requirement in the cases of the two later sales. I believe the adviser  
made unsuitable and unnecessary recommendations to Mr and Mrs M, at the very least in 
both 2013 and 2015.
putting matters right 
Where I find a business (or in this case an appointed representative of a business) has acted  
unfairly or inappropriately  in some way, then I will propose redress  that would put the 
consumers back in the position they would have been in had the mistake or unsuitable 
advice not taken place.  
However, it is not always possible to return consumers to that exact position, and that is the 
case here. I do believe Mr and Mrs M would still have  taken the actions they did in 2009, as 
they wanted to ensure they had mortgage  and family protection  in the event they passed 
away. But the adviser didnt properly record their needs and requirements  at that time (failing 
to set out the two mortgages and their differing terms), and he continued to sell them  cover  
thereafter that went beyond their needs   which remained  essentially the same  throughout.  
Though I do not consider  the advice of 2013 to be suitable, Mr and Mrs M did for the next 
two years- pay slightly reduced premiums, albeit  for less cover than theyd held since  2011.  
Ref: DRN93571567Though they were returned to a similar position  in 2015, they then paid an increased 
premium than that of 2011 and they actually had slightly less cover in those  circumstances.  
It follows that it isnt possible for me to propose  a comparison of what Mr and Mrs M 
shouldve been  recommended  in 2009, as the types and levels  of the cover  have altered  
across the various  sales. And the policy/policies had a small shortfall for one of the two 
mortgages in the first instance. But, Mr and Mrs M have been caused a great  deal of 
confusion and upset   and it certainly appears  that the adviser has failed to properly update 
them throughout as he has not supplied any evidence of this nature. 
I agree  that a combined sum of £1000 is suitable  in the circumstances to represent the 
significant upset,  distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr and Mrs M throughout the 
periods of advice.  
As an aside,  it is for Mr and Mrs M to decide  what they wish to do with their policies going 
forward, particularly since Mr M has now had a change to his health. Openwork has 
confirmed that the current  insurer does not consider the missing information as a 
misrepresentation, and it has now since added the correct information to its records. If 
Mr and Mrs M remain concerned about  that, they or their new financial adviser could  contact 
the insurer directly.  
my final decision
Though I dont believe  Openwork Limited is responsible for payment of any critical illness  
claim, I do uphold this complaint due to the upset caused to Mr and Mrs M by its appointed  
representative adviser. The adviser did not provide suitable recommendations in the 
circumstances of both the 2013 and 2015  sales. Further, he included incorrect information 
about Mr and Mrs Ms family history  and occupation,  leading  them  to be concerned about the 
validity of their current life assurance  policies.    
Openwork Limited  must pay £1000 to Mr and Mrs M for the distress theyve been  caused. 
I do not make any other award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9357156