K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with the customer service he received from Zurich  Insurance PLC when he 
queried the price  of his home  insurance, and how they dealt with his postcode  being  
recorded incorrectly on their system.  Hes also unhappy with the increases in premiums on 
his home  insurance  with them  and would like an explanation.  
background 
Mr Bs insurance policy was transferred to Zurich in 2006 and cost £213.84  for the year. The 
premiums increased over the years and by 2017  the premium  quoted  was £617.56.  
Following a news article he read regarding  overpriced home  insurance  in 2016, Mr B went  
online and was offered a much lower quote  with Zurich. Mr B contacted Zurich for an 
explanation and to discuss his premiums.  Mr B was dissatisfied with the response he 
received. 
Mr B is unhappy with increase in the price of his insurance, but accepts that he couldve 
shopped around. He makes it clear that this isnt his main point and hes primarily unhappy 
with the customer  service hes received from Zurich and doesnt believe their responses  to 
him since he raised his initially query have been  in any way consistent with treating a 
customer fairly and with due care and respect. 
Mr B is also unhappy that Zurich recorded  his postcode  incorrectly  on their system. He says 
he told them  about  this on many occasions  only to be reassured that it had been amended.  
He believes he was lied to and treated as though hed no right to challenge them.  He also 
thinks it meant his insurance policy was worthless  - hes worried  that the incorrect  postcode 
meant he never wouldve been able to claim on the policy had he needed  to. 
Zurich has explained  the reason for the lower price  quoted online in 2016, and assured Mr B 
that the incorrect postcode wouldnt have prevented him from making a claim on the policy.  It 
says his insurance was correctly priced  but has offered £1,500  to Mr B to put things right.  
Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things.
Mr B disagreed and didnt  think the offer was fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is unhappy with the way he was treated by Zurich when he called for an explanation for 
why his premiums were much higher than what hed been quoted online in 2016.  I 
understand it must have been  frustrating  to have to contact Zurich multiple times to get a 
clear answer. Zurich has explained  the quotation Mr B found in 2016 was an alternative 
product, where  different  factors  such as the level of cover affect the cost. Zurich also says it 
was offered through a different distribution  channel and had an introductory  discount on it. 
Ive thought about this and it was a new policy Mr B was being  quoted  in 2016, and often 
new policies  are offered  at a discounted  price  to the true cost of providing the insurance. So 
the price Mr B got online  in 2016  with this new policy wouldnt provide a fair comparison. 
Ref: DRN96338212While Mr B has made it clear its not his main complaint point Ive also looked at the increase 
in his premiums over the years and whether he was treated  fairly.  I dont  have the power to 
tell a business what its insurance should have cost. I would be, in effect determining or 
telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether 
Zurich has treated Mr B fairly throughout the period he held his insurance policy. If I find that 
Zurich hasnt treated  Mr B fairly,  I will look to see what compensation would be fair and in 
this case whether I think Zurichs offer is fair.
In 2006, Mr Bs home insurance cost £213.84  for the year. I can see that Mr Bs premiums 
continued to increase each year and he didnt engage  with Zurich about  his premiums until 
2016. If Zurich increased the price just because  he didnt engage at renewal, that wouldnt 
be fair.
Its possible that if a consumer hasnt been engaging with their insurer  over the price of their 
insurance over a number  of years, an insurer  could  take advantage  of that by increasing the 
price of insurance  that wouldnt be fair. Looking  at all the facts  I think  its possible Zurich  
should have realised by at least 2010  (the fifth year he auto-renewed his policy  without 
engaging) that Mr B wasnt the type of person who shopped around for cheaper insurance 
regularly. So if it increased  the price just because he didnt engage at renewal, that wouldnt 
be fair.
If I thought Zurich had unfairly increased the price in 2011,  I would consider it reasonable for 
it to work out compensation  based  on Mr Bs premium in 2010 and refund any increase from 
this point (adding in interest for the time hed been out of pocket) until he engaged about the 
premium in 2016. Zurich  has made an offer of £1,500 to Mr B to put things right and I think 
this would be fair compensation if I thought something had gone wrong. 
Incorrect postcode 
Mr B is also unhappy with the way Zurich dealt with his postcode  being  incorrectly recorded. 
He says it had been  happening  for many  years and that hed brought it to Zurichs  attention 
many times  being told it had been amended when it hadnt  been. When Zurich  did amend 
his postcode they also informed him that the risk will change  meaning an increase to his 
premium of around £17.
I can understand it must have been frustrating  to see his postcode was incorrectly  recorded,  
especially having to report this on a number of occasions. Its unclear how this error 
occurred or why he had to raise it with them repeatedly before it was amended.  But I can 
see the error didnt  appear to cause any issues in receiving correspondence form Zurich.  
Mr B says because of their error he was paying  for what  was in effect a worthless insurance 
policy. I can see why hed be distressed at the thought his policy wouldnt have paid out had 
he needed to make a claim. Zurich has said the underwriter  wouldve been expected to 
honour the policy regardless of the error  on their system. I note Zurich sent an assessor to 
Mr Bs home in 2014 to inspect a water  ingress despite the incorrect postcode. I think  this 
shows that a claim most likely wouldve been paid if it had been caused  by something the 
policy covered. I also note that ultimately  Mr B didnt need to claim during this time. So while  
I understand his frustration, I dont think Mr B has lost out as a result of anything  Zurich did 
wrong here.   
Ref: DRN96338213I also think the £1,500 offer is enough  to encompass  any compensation I would award  in 
recognition of the distress caused  to Mr B by incorrectly  recording his postcode,  as well as 
not clearly explaining the reason his policy cost more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Zurich Insurance PLCs offer of £1,500 is fair.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9633821