K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains she was the victim of identity  theft when a credit card was set up in her 
name through Vanquis Bank Limited.
background
I set out the background  of this complaint, and my provisional findings, in my provisional 
decision dated 9 August  2019. I gave both parties  the opportunity to respond to me with any 
further thoughts  theyd  like me to consider.
Mrs C replied, and said she accepts the £250  compensation I suggested. She said her 
previous cheque for £100 was out of date, so would like a new one for the full £250. She 
also said she was told her credit  record would be cleared, and would like written confirmation  
from Vanquis of this.
Vanquis replied,  and simply said theyre  confident they had no further information to provide.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has accepted my decision, and Vanquis didnt provide any further information. So I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings about the compensation of £250  and 
based on what Mrs C has said Vanquis should  cancel the original cheque and issue  a new 
one for £250.
Mrs C has also asked Vanquis to confirm her credit  file hasnt  been  affected by this situation. 
It doesnt seem unreasonable for Vanquis  to do this when  writing out to Mrs C with her new 
cheque. And if Mrs C remains concerned about  the impact on her credit  file she can check 
this herself online.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited, and 
order them  to pay a total of £250  in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
provisional decision
complaint
Mrs C complains she was the victim of identity theft when  a credit card was set up in her name  
through Vanquis Bank Limited.
Ref: DRN98886362background 
In November 2017 Mrs C says she discovered a total of 13 searches of her credit file information had 
been carried out. 
On 23 November  Mrs C received a letter  from Vanquis about  a new credit card shed  apparently 
opened linked to a mobile phone  contract.  For this particular mobile phone  company when  taking out 
a contract with them a Vanquis credit card account was opened  at the same time.
She complained  to Vanquis about the credit card,  saying shed never applied for it and hadnt entered  
into the mobile phone contract, so the credit card had been issued as a result of fraud.
Mrs C was asked to give Vanquis information about her circumstances for them to investigate  the 
fraud claim. Once theyd completed their investigations  they wrote to Mrs C and explained  the mobile 
phone had been sent to Mrs Cs address   and signed for by her  so theyd be treating the account 
as having been applied for by her.
Mrs C was unhappy with this, and complained. Vanquis reiterated their position. But they also added  
they couldnt understand  what  financial gain a third party  would  get if the phone was delivered  to her 
genuine address.
Mrs C remained unhappy, so asked us to look into the complaint, and in doing  so provided evidence  
of her own investigations shed  carried  out. One piece of evidence related  to the current  account  
details provided for the purpose of making  direct debit payments to service the mobile phone. The 
bank holding  this current account told Mrs C it didnt actually exist.
Our adjudicator considered  everything  and said to Vanquis that he felt the credit card had set up 
fraudulently.
In May 2018  Vanquis told our adjudicator they were  now overturning their decision to treat Mrs C as 
having applied  for the credit  card. Mrs C was happy  about this, but felt compensation was 
appropriate. Vanquis agreed  to the £100 recommended  by our adjudicator, and said theyd send a 
cheque to Mrs C. But Mrs C didnt think this was sufficient compensation. She said she had no 
confidence in Vanquis security checks, and has put a lot of time and effort into dealing  with this. She 
said its also had an impact on her health  and wellbeing.
Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently planning to increase the award of 
compensation.
When I started reviewing this complaint it wasnt clear to me why Vanquis had originally considered 
Mrs C had applied for the credit card. While I dont need to consider this issue itself, since Vanquis 
has changed  its position  on that, the compensation I award will be impacted  by the reasonableness  of 
their decision.
Vanquis told us they looked at the signature provided  when the phone  was delivered, and that the 
delivery of the phone  was made to Mrs Cs address.
I also wanted to understand why Vanquis didnt  believe  Mrs C when  she got in touch and said it 
wasnt her. They replied  to say a £5 payment was completed which  matched with Mrs Cs details, and 
they couldnt see any financial gain to be made by a third party having  a phone  delivered to the 
genuine address.
Ref: DRN98886363Vanquis also said they tried to check the account details, but werent  able to do so.
Ive looked at the signature provided,  to sign for the phone. Its substantially  different from the 
signature used on the dispute form. So I dont agree its reasonable to readily  rely on this when 
investigating a fraud.
And although the delivery of the phone  was recorded as made  to Mrs Cs address, I dont think it can 
be automatically assumed she definitely received it. I havent seen any investigation by Vanquis into 
potential issues with delivery in that area. And if the signature isnt that of Mrs C, the delivery address 
recorded is purely  a record of her address  and not evidence of the phone being  delivered there.
Ive thought about Vanquis comments about  the £5 payment   but even if this did match  Mrs Cs 
details, it doesnt mean the rest of the application  is genuine. As it turns out, this was a payment  made 
fraudulently, not using  a card legitimately issued  to Mrs C. And while I note their comments about  not 
being able to see any gain for a third party having a phone delivered to the genuine  address, this 
doesnt appear to have been  looked into by Vanquis. Without investigating this aspect  fully Vanquis 
wouldnt be able to see how there was a gain. 
Mrs C was able to get clear evidence some  of the details  used were fraudulent  namely  the sort code 
and account number given  for direct debit payments.  And its this information  Vanquis have relied on 
to overturn the decision  to treat the credit card as applied  for by her.
Vanquis have  made a point that Mrs C should have sent this to them when  they asked for any more 
information she got about the fraud. Mrs C has told us shes not sure if she did as she had a lot going  
on at the time.  But regardless of whether she did or didnt I think this is something Vanquis could have 
discovered through its own diligent investigation   as Mrs C was able to find this herself.
Taking everything into account I dont think Vanquis properly investigated  Mrs Cs claim  that this was 
a fraudulent application   and had they done so they could have resolved  this issue earlier. I dont 
doubt that being a victim of ID theft is both an alarming  and frustrating experience and one that 
anyone whos an innocent victim of shouldnt  have to suffer any longer than is necessary. I dont 
suggest that Vanquis  was able to prevent Mrs C suffering the experience at all, but I do consider they 
were able to have shortened that experience.  
Mrs C has told us shes invested a significant amount of time in getting this resolved. And that its had 
an impact on her health and wellbeing. I want her to know that, although  Ive not reflected everything 
shes told us in this decision, Ive read everything shes said carefully  and thought about the impact 
on her and that Vanquis unnecessarily prolonged the period  over which that impact was felt.
The reasons above are why Im currently planning to uphold the complaint and increase the 
compensation currently on offer.
what I think Im going to ask Vanquis to do to put matters right
Vanquis have  maintained that £100 compensation is fair, but for the reasons above I dont currently 
think it is.
I previously thought total compensation of £200 (including the £100 offered previously) was fair. This 
was put to Vanquis, but they didnt  agree.
On reflection, and while drafting this decision,  I think the total sum of £250 compensation (including 
the £100  offered previously) is fair. 
I currently plan to say if Vanquis have already paid Mrs C £100 then they should  pay a further £150 to 
Mrs C. If theyve not yet paid Mrs C the £100, or Mrs C hasnt paid in the cheque, Vanquis should  
cancel the cheque and pay Mrs C £250.
Ref: DRN98886364my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I currently plan to uphold this complaint against Vanquis Bank 
Limited, and order them to pay a total of £250  in settlement of this complaint.
Ref: DRN9888636