K822xcomplaint
Ms L complains that Financial Administration Services  Limited (FASL) failed to provide her 
with clear information about the transactions on her investment  account.  As a result she lost 
confidence in the system and felt forced to move  to another provider,  and in doing so she 
incurred significant  costs.
background 
Ms L had an execution-only account with FASL, which had an Independent  Financial Adviser 
(IFA) linked to it. She contacted FASL because she was unable to identify various  payments 
that had been made  to the account since its inception in 2006.  She was unhappy  with this, 
but also, as she explained in calls made to FASL, with the performance of her investments, 
her IFA and changes in her personal  circumstances.
FASL says that in this sort of situation it would normally  refer a customer to their IFA, but it 
nevertheless tried to help Ms L by explaining how she could  interrogate  the system to try to 
get the information she needed. It seemed she had made payments to her IFA that had then 
been invested on her behalf into a variety of different funds and it was particularly the 
reconciliation of these  amounts that was proving difficult.
Over the course of several  months,  FASL spoke with Ms L on numerous occasions. She 
provided authorisation for it to communicate with her IFA and to give it information  about her 
account. But her difficulties continued and she eventually  sold her investments  and moved to 
a different provider. 
FASL acknowledged that on occasion  it had failed  to provide some of the requested 
information to Ms L and had also delayed providing some statements and valuations to her 
IFA. So, it offered her £500 to compensate her for this. But overall,  FASL felt it had provided 
her with a reasonable level of help and information, albeit not always in the format  that shed 
wanted it to be in. 
Ms L wasnt satisfied with FASLs response  to the matter, so she referred it to this service.  
But our investigator didnt feel that FASL  needed  to do more  than it had already done. He 
agreed that there had been times when the information provided to Ms L had been 
incomplete, or in formats  that didnt show all the transactions that she was seeking.  But the 
investigator felt that the £500  offered in compensation for this was fair. 
Ms L responded to say that she, and her IFA, had spoken to numerous different people  at 
FASL over the months preceding her move to a different  provider and had repeatedly been 
given different answers and guidance  that produced different amounts in the reports that she 
was able to run. She felt that she shouldnt have had to go to the lengths she did and that 
the compensation offered  by FASL wasnt enough.  
As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, the matters been  referred  to me 
to review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN95183052Its clear Ms L encountered numerous difficulties when trying to reconcile  the payments that 
had been made to her account over the years. But having looked  carefully,  Im not 
persuaded that, in general,  these  were the fault of FASL. 
It seems  that Ms L was trying to get her financial affairs in order as she approached 
retirement and, as such, I can understand that this would have been a stressful  time for her. 
But its important to remember  that FASL was operating an execution-only service with no 
responsibility for providing her with investment advice. Its role was to execute  trades  
instructed on her behalf, administer her account  and provide a level of information in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. 
While I appreciate that the complaint  centres upon  the provision  or lack of  information to 
Ms L, Ive not seen  that FASL systematically failed to provide the sort of information it was 
responsible for providing to its execution-only customers  such  as statements and 
valuations. 
I think the sort of information Ms L was looking for  very specific  and in bespoke  formats 
was not something  that FASL was required to provide.  So far as I can see, the various  
members of staff who spoke with Ms L made genuine, good  faith attempts to help her. There 
were occasions when this went wrong, as well as the issue  with some statements and 
valuations being  sent late to her IFA, but I think that FASLs offer of compensation for this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9518305