K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have  complained about American International Group UK Limiteds  (AIG) 
handling of their caravan insurance policy.
Reference to AIG includes their agents.
As Mr W has taken  the lead in bringing this complaint, I will refer to him throughout this 
decision. But his comments  are made on both his and Mrs Ws behalf.
background
While the caravan was being driven  in August  2018, a plate fell and damaged  the worktops . 
The hobs glass lid and the microwaves  plate  were also damaged. Mr W made a claim on 
31 August. Given the age of the caravan, replacement worktops were not available. So, the 
only other option was to repair the damage. AIG instructed a claims handler  to deal with 
Mr Ws claim.
I understand that soon after the incident at the end of August  2018, Mr W went  away on a 
three week holiday. On his return he had the damage assessed on 10 October 2018. The 
company that did the assessment confirmed that three  worktops had been damaged and 
that replacement  worktops werent  available. AIG decided  to get their own assessment done.
AIGs claims  handler assessed the caravan on 22 October. They too said the worktops could 
not be replaced but said they could be repaired. The claims handler confirmed that they sent 
AIG their report on 25 October. The claim was authorised  and the claims handler tried to find 
a suitable repairer  to carry out the work.  I understand they had difficulties in finding  a 
repairer. 
The repairer found said they were  busy and couldnt do the work until the end of November. 
Mr W was unhappy with that. So, as an alternative, AIG offered Mr W a cash  settlement of 
£400. But Mr W didnt want a cash settlement, he wanted the damage repaired. The repair  
was completed on 7 January 2019. Mr W bought the hobs replacement  lid and the 
microwave plate himself.  
AIG said Mr W had refused to allow  their repairer to do the work  which  had caused the delay 
from the end of November 2018, when the repairer  was available, until 7 January 2019,  
when the repair was completed. Mr W said he didnt  refuse the repairer.  The repairer had 
said there was a possibility that the repair to the worktops wouldnt be perfect. In an email to 
the claims handler dated 22 November 2018, Mr W said,  please be aware that any repair 
that is still visible will not be acceptable. I understand that AIG took that as Mr W refusing 
the repairer.
AIG said that the worktops had been repaired to a high standard.  Although, as was 
anticipated, it wasnt perfect. In recognition of that AIG waived the £75 excess and paid a 
further £75 compensation. AIG reimbursed  Mr W £159.17 for the hobs  replacement  glass 
lid; the £90.00 cost of fitting the new lid; and £15.00  for the replacement  microwave plate.
Mr W didn't think  that went far enough, so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She felt that AIG had dealt with Mr W fairly.  As Mr W didnt agree 
with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN95276562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr W, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr W has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if AIG have  dealt with Mr W in a fair and reasonable way.
After Mr W reported  the damage on 31 August 2018, he was away  on holiday for three 
weeks. I understand that was for most  of September. On his return  he had his caravan 
assessed on 10 October.  I therefore  dont think AIG were responsible for any delays 
between 31 August and 10 October.
AIG appointed a claims handler who arranged for the caravan to be assessed. That 
happened in October. The claims handler  then had to find a repairer who was willing and 
available to do the work. I understand that proved difficult. But they were able to find a 
repairer who was prepared to do the repair but not until the end of November 2018. Mr W 
was understandably unhappy with that. So, AIG offered him a cash settlement of £400 as an 
alternative. I think that was reasonable. But Mr W rejected that offer.  
AIG asked the repairer to do the work.  The repairer  said that the repair  might not be perfect. 
In an email of 22 November 2018,  Mr W said, please be aware  that any repair  that is still 
visible will not be acceptable . AIG took that as Mr W refusing to allow  the repairer to do the 
work. I can understand  why AIG interpreted Mr Ws email in that way. Mr W said he didnt 
refuse the repairer.  It was sometime later that Mr W agreed for the repairer to do the work on 
the understanding that if the repair wasnt to a high standard, AIG would pay him a loss of 
appearance payment.  When the work was done  on 7 January 2019,  both Mr W and AIG 
were pleased that the standard  of the repair was high,  although  as anticipated  it wasnt  
perfect. As a result, AIG waived the £75 excess and paid him a further  £75. Effectively, AIG 
compensated Mr W with £150. I think that was reasonable.
As explained above, while there were some  delays I dont think the delays were 
unreasonable. And not all the delays  were caused  by AIG. So I don't require AIG to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 August 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9527656