K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that MBNA  Limited  mis-sold her payment protection  insurance  (PPI).  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The policy was added  to 
Ms Bs credit  card account during a phone call. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
Ms B has a number of complaints but she mainly says that when it was sold to her MBNA  
said she had to take the policy.  She says it wasnt explained and she wasnt  given  the 
information about it that she shouldve  been.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
I think MBNA made Ms B aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. I say 
this because the sales script that MBNA used (which Ive seen)  when it sold her PPI set out 
details of the cover and made it clear  that it was up to Ms B to decide whether or not she 
wanted to have PPI. Theres  no call recording  so I cant  know  exactly  what words were  
used. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Ms B to remember  in detail what was 
discussed during  a phone call that took place  so long ago. But Ive no reason to think MBNA 
wouldnt have followed its usual sales process in Ms Bs case. And I cant fairly  say that 
MBNA didnt  properly explain that PPI was an optional feature she could have with her credit  
card, if she wanted to, just based  on what Ms B says now.  
Ive also taken into account that Ms B had held this credit card for around 3 years or so 
without PPI. So I think she wouldve understood at the time, even if shes forgotten  now,  that 
having PPI was optional and it wasnt something she had to have with her credit  card.  
On balance, I think its likely that during the phone call she decided she wanted to have  the 
benefits that PPI offered her, so it was then added to her account at her request. 
MBNA didnt  recommend  the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for her.
Ms B was eligible for the policy. The policy wouldve covered Ms B if she was off sick until 
she was able to go back to work or until her card balance  was paid off. And it protected  Ms 
Bs credit card monthly repayments for up to 12 months if she lost her job and was 
unemployed. 
Ref: DRN98590512Redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped if Ms B was off work  sick. PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to any redundancy  money  she mightve  got, giving her some additional financial 
security if shed lost her job.  
So I think that Ms B couldve benefitted  from having the PPI.
Its possible some of the information  MBNA  gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover which I dont think  were 
properly explained.  But it doesnt look as if those applied in Ms Bs case at the time she took 
out the policy. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve made any difference  to her decision to take out the PPI. 
Also, I dont think its likely  that MBNA properly explained the policy cost, or what it might pay 
out if Ms B made a claim. MBNA mightve made Ms B aware  that shed be charged  68p per 
£100 of her statement balance. This probably wouldnt have helped Ms B to understand how 
much this might actually work out costing  on a month to month  basis. But Ms B chose to 
take out the policy when  she didnt have to  so she seems to have wanted it and the policy 
was apparently affordable for her. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Ms B and her lack of any significant  other  
means to make her credit card repayments  if she couldnt work,  I dont  think  its likely that 
she wouldve made a different  decision  if better  information had been provided. On balance  
I think shed still have  taken out the policy.
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because MBNA  didnt  tell Ms B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN98590513my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms B.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN9859051