K821x#15Mrs C is seeking to recover a total of £25,000 from TSB Bank plc (TSB), after she was the 
victim of a scam.
TSB says it is not liable for the loss because Mrs C unwittingly authorised  the payments  
and it could not reasonably have intervened at the time the payments were made or done 
more to try to recoup the money from the recipient bank once it became aware of the scam. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have concluded that 
the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint 
for the following reasons:
It is common ground that Mrs C authorised the scam payments herself.  In total,  Mrs C 
authorised three payments to the scammer:
Payment 1 - £5,000  in branch on 6 December 2017
Payment 2 - £10,000 over the telephone on 5 January 2018
Payment 3 - £10,000 over the telephone on 8 January 2018
It is worth noting that TSB hasnt been  able to confirm that payments 2 and 3 were made 
over the telephone but having listened  to a recording of a call that took place between Mrs C 
and TSB around the time the scam was reported, Im satisfied  they were.   
Mrs C had been duped by the scammers  into instructing TSB to transfer  the above sums  
after her husband,  Mr C, entered  their details onto a website that proposed  to put them  in 
touch with brokers offering investment opportunities. Mr and Mrs C where then deceived 
over the phone into thinking  they were investing  in binary options and renewable  energies  - 
which would offer far greater returns than their current  savings account and other similar 
companies on the market.  They would then be able to withdraw these funds  and use them  
for funeral expenses  as and when they needed  to.
After the initial conversation, Mrs C made the first transfer from her bank account in branch 
and, as a result of later conversations with the scammer, she also made  a further  two 
transfers via telephone banking.  
Mrs C also made a further payment for £10,000 to a different investment on 26 June 2018 
but this was later refunded by TSB and so does not form part of this complaint. However, it is 
worth noting  that when  Mrs C went into branch to make this payment, the branch manager 
noticed she had made a number of substantial payments  before   the payments that now 
form part of this complaint. The branch manager  asked Mrs C to do some further research 
on the company  she was using and to check what documentation she had received about 
her previous  investments before she transferred any further  funds. When  Mrs C went home, 
she did what the branch  manager asked. It was at this point,  she realised she didnt have 
any paperwork from her previous investments and she also realised the website  she and 
Mr C had used had disappeared - she was no longer able to contact the broker. 
I accept the above  payments were authorised payments even though  Mrs C was the victim 
of a sophisticated scam. She went into her local branch  and later used  her telephone 
banking security credentials to request the payments. So, although she did not intend  the 
Ref: DRN99900452money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009, and the terms 
and conditions of her account, Mrs C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter  
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual  transactions  or other signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel  used, have  taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
Mrs C says she doesnt remember  the branch staff questioning her about the first payment 
when she went into branch  she doesnt  even remember being asked what  the payment  
was for. But she does remember being  told there would be a charge for in-branch transfers  
and that if she wanted  to make further payments, she should  do so via her telephone 
banking. TSB hasnt been able to provide me with any information about  what was 
discussed in branch at the time the first transaction took place.
Im satisfied that this type of scam  an investment scam  wouldve been well-known to 
banks at the time Mrs C made the first, and later, payments. But, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, it doesnt  appear  that Mrs C was asked any questions about the transfer by branch 
staff before  it was executed. 
A £5,000  payment was unusual and uncharacteristic for Mrs C and her account, particularly 
as it was being sent to a new payee.  And Mrs C hadnt made any comparable legitimate  
payments in recent times  either. And so, Im persuaded that TSB staff shouldve  been 
concerned about  the possibility of fraud here and that TSB shouldve asked some  questions 
about the payment and warned Mrs C of potential fraud and scams.  
In other  words, Im satisfied TSB shouldve been triggered by this unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity.  But the evidence before us indicates that the staff did not ask Mrs C 
any questions about the payment at all. In my judgment,  TSB could  and should  have  done  
more here,  particularly given that good industry  practice from the time encourages staff to 
ask questions about potentially fraudulent payments in order to test the purpose  and 
legitimacy of the payment. 
Whilst I dont think  Mrs C was vulnerable at the time,  she was in an age bracket that is 
particularly targeted  by fraudsters  she was over 70. It was her first time making  a payment 
of this kind and this is a particularly  well-known  scam. And so, Im persuaded that had bank 
Ref: DRN99900453staff asked some probing questions e.g. what the investment was for and its expected  
returns (which  in this case were unusually high), what paperwork she had received upfront, 
how she had been contacted, and whether  she had done sufficient checks  on the alleged  
broker - including  whether  the firm was regulated - some red flags wouldve been raised and 
its likely  Mrs Cs answers wouldve put TSB on notice that she may be at risk of financial 
harm. 
Mrs C hadnt been provided with a cover-story to provide to branch staff and Im satisfied 
that had she been asked  these questions she would have told TSB how she had been  
contacted, the checks that Mr C had completed, the reason  for the payments and the likely 
returns. The scammer had told Mrs C she was likely to receive a 9-10% return  on any 
investments she made  which  we would have been  implausible unless Mr and Mrs C where 
entering into high risk investments. They thought they were  entering into investments  that 
ultimately guaranteed returns. And they didnt have a contract from the broker or any 
paperwork that set out the detail of these investments. 
At this point, Im satisfied staff would have realised that something was amiss  - before  it was 
too late. Mrs C did not have any paperwork and the returns were unusually  high  shed 
simply trusted that she was speaking  to a professional. At this point,  TSB couldve educated  
Mrs C about this particular type of scam  and its key characteristics.  Mrs C has told us, and I 
have no reason to doubt her, that she was not aware that this type of scam existed 
previously. She and Mr C knew the branch staff well and trusted what  they said. They had 
always been careful with their savings. Had Mrs C been  told about the potential risks she 
would have exercised caution and not gone ahead with the payment.
In other  words, but for TSBs failure to probein an appropriate and sensitive waythe 
scam would probably  not have succeeded,  and Mrs C wouldnt have gone on to make  any 
payments at all.
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if TSB had asked probing questions 
are reinforced by what happens  when  Mrs C is ultimately questioned  by the branch manager 
in June 2018. When Mrs C is warned  about scams and asked about the investments and the 
paperwork shed received, some doubt  is placed in her mind and she goes home to do some 
further research.  She saysand I acceptthat, this was the first time she and Mr C had 
entered into this type of financial arrangement and they were nave about what  the process 
entailed. It was at this point she realised she didnt  have the appropriate paperwork and the 
website they had used was no longer available. And she went straight  back to the branch to 
report the scam. But by the time she had realised,  it was too late  the funds had already 
been removed  from the scammers account  and it had been closed (which  meant  TSB could 
not, despite efforts, retrieve any of Mr and Mrs Cs funds from the payee bank). 
In other  words, if the staff had carried out further  or better questioning in line with a banks 
duty of care,  at the time Mrs C went into branch to make the first payment, it seems probable 
that Mrs C would have  become  credulous  about  the scam in time and decided  not to make 
the first, and ultimately,  the following payments at all. The fraud would have failed; and Mr 
and Mrs C would not have lost £25,000.  
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for completeness,  
I will say that it would have made  no difference because the recipient  banks  had closed the 
recipients account  before  the scam  was reported to TSB. 
Ref: DRN99900454I have also considered whether Mrs C should bear some responsibility in terms of her 
actions. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payments,  
she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what she was doing or the 
consequences of her actions. She thought she was sensibly investing her savings  with a 
professional broker.  I am satisfied, she was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a 
clever fraudster. The bank  was the professional in financial  matters; Mrs C was a layperson. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mrs C for 
the loss she suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate her for 
being deprived of the money  she lost.  I am satisfied  that had the fraudster  not taken the 
money from Mrs C it would have remained in her savings account, so interest should be at 
that rate.  
I also think it is appropriate to make a modest  award  of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs C has suffered  this was her life savings and the passing of Mr C has 
been made more  difficult by the uncertainty of not knowing  if she would ger her money  back. 
In reaching that conclusion  I am mindful  that her loss was ultimately caused by the callous  
act of a fraudster and it was an authorised  transaction, but TSB could ultimately  have 
prevented the payments from leaving the account  at all. 
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about TSB Bank  plc  and I therefore  require the bank to:
Pay Mrs C £25,000 within 28 days of receiving  notification of her acceptance of my 
final decision; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the savings  account rate from the date of each loss to the 
date of refund1. 
Pay Mrs C £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 December  2020.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
1 If TSB is legally required  to deduct tax from the interest should send Mrs C a tax deduction 
certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC is appropriate.
Ref: DRN9990045