K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint, although it didnt actually sell the PPI. To keep 
things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Mrs A says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs A took out with a store card in March 2001. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in the store  whilst shopping.
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough  information to uphold the complaint. He relied  on 
the fact that the policy didnt cover accident  and sickness claims if they resulted from a 
health problem  the consumer already had when  she bought it. And Mrs A had mentioned 
having a health condition  at the time - so if she needed to claim for this, she wouldnt have 
been able to. 
Our adjudicator felt that it was important that Mrs A had understood this so she could make a 
fair choice  about  taking  out the PPI. But he didnt think  that FICL did enough to make this 
policy restriction clear to her - and if it had, then our adjudicator  didnt think  Mrs A wouldve 
taken the policy out.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
It mainly said that Mrs A had provided  contradictory information, as when she complained  
she originally didnt  mention having  a medical  condition - when asked, she had said she 
didnt have one when she took the policy out. And she had also not provided any information 
about how her medical condition affected  her ability to work. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information Ive seen and been told up to now, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs As completed store card application. Mrs A has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where  it says Yes, I would like to protect  my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs A wouldve first read through anything she was 
asked to sign. So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs A to choose if she wanted to 
have PPI added on. 
Mrs A also signed the completed application  at the end of the form. So it seems to me 
reasonable to think that she must  have  agreed  with the information  on the form at the time. 
Ref: DRN94226872On balance, I find that Mrs A was made  aware  the policy was optional  and she chose to take 
it out.
FICL shouldve given Mrs A enough  clear information to decide if the policy was right for her. 
Its possible some information FICL gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. So I need to consider if Mrs A wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs A told us about  her sick pay. But this policy couldve paid a 
benefit for much longer  than she couldve  relied on getting sick pay. It couldve  paid out for 
as long as Mrs A was off work sick or if Mrs A lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work, 
on top of any sick pay or redundancy payment she got. In the event of a successful claim, 
the policy couldve cleared the card balance if Mrs A wasnt  able to go back to work. 
Mrs A told us that she didnt have  any savings or other means to rely on to pay her card if 
she wasnt able to work. And relying on other people to help out in the event of money 
problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI. Having  the policy gave Mrs A significantly 
better protection than she wouldve had otherwise. So I think  Mrs A couldve benefitted from 
having PPI.
 
Mrs A wouldnt have  been covered for a medical  condition she knew  about or should  have  
known about or for which she received advice, treatment or counselling  from any doctor 
during the 12 months before the PPI start date.
We asked Mrs A to tell us a bit more about her ongoing condition.  She has now confirmed to 
us that her condition was diagnosed in November  2001  some  8 months or so after shed 
taken out the policy.  And shes told us that she hadnt been  diagnosed with any medical 
conditions prior to the start date of the policy. 
Ive seen nothing  to show she knew she had such a condition, or had taken any time off 
work with it, before  she took out the PPI.
So, looking  at the probable policy wording, I think its likely  that she wouldnt have been 
concerned by the exclusion that meant she wasnt covered for an existing health issue.
And, as far as I can see, it doesnt look like Mrs A was affected by any of the other terms that 
mightve limited the policys  benefit  to her. So, even if these werent mentioned  clearly, or at 
all, I dont think that knowing more about things the policy  didnt cover  wouldve made  any 
difference to Mrs As decision to take it out. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs A clear enough information  about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But Mrs A chose to take out the policy when she didnt have  to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. And Mrs A indicated on the application  form that she was happy 
to pay to have  it. Plus she could cancel  it without further cost at any time. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mrs A, I think it unlikely she wouldve  made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance,  I think shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
Ref: DRN94226873In particular, I dont  think having better information about the policys  limitations and 
exclusions for an existing  medical condition wouldve put Mrs A off taking it out. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that at the time she took the PPI out Mrs A had any reason to think  shed 
likely be off work sick as a result of an existing medical condition. So I cant  fairly say that 
shes lost out as a result  of paying  for the policy.  
This means,  as things  stand, Im not currently planning to tell FICL that it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN9422687