K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that he was given unsuitable  advice by Portal  Financial Services LLP
(Portal), to transfer his occupational pension into a private pension, specifically a 
flexi-access income drawdown  pension. And that the fees charged are unfair,  given the work
Portal actually carried out.
background
In September  2017 Mr T contacted Portal, having come across  one of their advertisements.
He wanted to take advantage of the 25% tax free cash available to him. Having discussed
his retirement plans and personal circumstances with Portal, they provided their suitability
report in October.
In the report, Portal recommended Mr T transfer out of his occupational pension scheme
(OPS) and into a private pension (PP). Portal also advised that he would be able to transfer
back into his OPS  on the same terms, at a later date if he wanted to. Mr T contacted  his
OPS and they informed him that he wouldnt be able to transfer back  in and he would lose
his benefits. He then informed Portal.
Portal then confirmed the benefits  Mr T would lose if he transferred and issued  a revised
suitability report in December 2017. In the revised report  Portal stated he should contact his
employer about  opting back into his OPS.  And they said theyd treat him as an insistent
client if he chose to proceed with the transfer  of his OPS into the PP.
Portal assessed Mr T to be a cautious  investor.  And in setting out the investments to be
made with his PP, Portal stated:
Investment One 53.44% of overall  investment  low risk
Investment Two 41.56%  of overall investment  high risk
Investment Three was in cash and equated  to 5% of overall  investment
Mr T then signed and returned  a number of forms and declarations (drafted by Portal) and
instructed them to carry out the transfer.
Mr T complained to Portal in November  2018.  He complained  that:
He was told he could  opt back into his OPS;
The fees Portal charged is too high;
The investments  made  are too high risk; and
His funds had lost value.
Portal disagreed. And explained why they felt they had provided suitable advice. They also
explained that their fees were shared with him before he proceeded and reflected the level of
risk associated with the transfer they carried out on his behalf.
Unhappy with this, Mr T brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  concluded  that it was
reasonable for Portal to have treated Mr T as an Insistent client . But she didnt think the
funds chosen  for Mr Ts investment were  diverse enough and expressed concerns over the
high risk investment  fund,  given Mr T was a cautious investor. Our investigator didnt think
the advice given was suitable.
Ref: DRN97842682For that reason,  she recommended Portal put things right by carrying  out a loss assessment.
With regards to any loss identified, this should be paid into Mr Ts pension fund. If this isnt
possible then to him directly allowing for income tax. This should  be paid plus interest  and a
further £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
With reference to the fees, our investigator  concluded that Portal  had presented  them to
Mr T before the transfer and so he was made  aware  of them.
Mr T wasnt happy with this outcome and so this has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
In summary,  my provisional decision said: 
Prior to instructing  Portal to carry out the transfer,  Mr T informed Portal  that he:
Was 56 years old and married;
Was a homeowner with an outstanding  mortgage of £50,000 (property value 
£110,000);
Was in full time employment, earning  £34,000;
Was receiving  a pension, £550 per month;
Had life cover that would cover  his mortgage; and
Had outstanding  debt (two loans amounting to £16,000 and a separate debt of
£4,000).
And that his objectives were to:
Reduce his mortgage;
Create an emergency fund; and
Help with bills.
Mr T had no investments or liquid assets   apart  from his occupational pension  (value  at the
time of the transfer was £214,269). There are three  points that Mr T has complained about 
specifically: Portal telling  him he could opt back into his OPS; he feels Portals fees are 
unfair; and the suitability  of the advice  Portal gave. I will take each point in turn.
Opting back into the OPS 
I do think Mr T was aware that opting  back into his OPS wouldnt have been
possible. He has told us that hed contacted  them himself and theyd told him directly. Mr T 
has suggested he did most of the work  prior to the transfer. Other  than contacting his OPS
regarding the opting back in point  I cannot  see that Mr T did anything else. I do not think
Mr T contacting his OPS  regarding this point would have amounted to a lot of work  on his
part. Whilst this may have been  a minor  inconvenience, I am of the opinion  that the distress
and inconvenience  payment Im minded to direct Portal to pay, covers  this also.
Portals fees
Under COBS 2.2.1(1)(d), Portal had a duty to provide appropriate information in a 
comprehensive form to Mr T about their costs and associated charges, before providing 
services.
I can see that both the initial suitability report and the revised version  set out the fees in a 
clear and comprehensive manner. The relevant sub headings were:
Ref: DRN97842683For this you will get;
New pension provider charges; and
The peace of mind of ongoing management.
The adviser fees are clearly stated as £12,213.45. I am satisfied  that Portal fulfilled their duty 
under COBS 2.2.1(1)(d)  and provided  Mr T with the appropriate information about their costs 
in an appropriate  format prior to them providing  their services.
Mr T was undoubtedly in possession of both suitability reports  and read their contents.  He 
was therefore  aware  of the fees Portal were charging before he instructed them  to carry out 
his transfer. Mr T therefore chose  to proceed  in full knowledge of their fees.
That said I have concerns over the ongoing management fees charged  by Portal for
services Mr T has said he hasnt  received.  Both suitability reports clearly  set out what Mr T 
would have got in exchange  for Portals ongoing management fees. This included, but was
not limited to:
an annual review  of Mr Ts pension portfolio;
an annual review  of Mr Ts attitude  to risk and personal circumstances; and
making relevant  recommendations to balance Mr Ts investments accordingly;
Weve asked Portal to provide  evidence showing this service was carried out. Without sight
of this, I cannot agree that the ongoing  management fees were fair or reasonable.
Portal ignored this request for evidence and instead reiterated why they didnt agree with our
investigators view. In any event, the loss calculation Ill set out below is designed so that the
ongoing fees charged are taken into account  within  the loss calculation.
Was Mr T an insistent  client?
At the time of this transfer, COBS 9 didnt  include a specific rule on insistent clients.  That
said, COBS 2.1.1R required a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance
with the best interests of its client. Whilst firms are permitted to conduct business on an
insistent client basis, the client must  understand the consequences of proceeding and going
against the advice given.
Mr T has maintained that he wanted to access his tax free cash and he initiated contact with
Portal in order to achieve this. When discussing his complaint  with our investigator, he
explained that his motivator was to access his tax free cash  and confirmed that doing so was
important to him. He told our investigator that he needed the money  for works to be carried
out on a property. Taking that into consideration, I am persuaded by Mr Ts testimony and
satisfied that he would  have proceeded with this transfer, whether hed instructed Portal or
another firm. Therefore,  under  the circumstances, it was reasonable to treat Mr T as an
insistent client.
Suitability of advice
Both Mr T and Portal agree that he was a cautious investor. As previously stated,  his
objectives were to:
Reduce his mortgage;
Create an emergency fund; and
Help with bills.
Ref: DRN97842684Portal advised Mr T as an insistent client and recommended he invest  in:
Investment One 53.44% of overall  investment  low risk
Investment Two 41.56%  of overall investment  high risk
Investment Three was in cash and equated  to 5% of overall  investment
Whilst I appreciate one is categorised as low risk, the suitability report  doesnt contain
enough information to demonstrate Portal gave full, reasoned  and suitable  advice.  Further,
the other fund is clearly  categorised as high risk due to its volatile  nature.
More than 40% of Mr Ts investment was placed  into this, high risk fund. And
given that he was a cautious investor, I do not think this was a reasonable course  of action.
This exposed Mr T to a great deal of unnecessary  risk, which could have  easily been
avoided.
Taking all of this into consideration, Portal failed to provide suitable advice in this instance.
Whilst I have established  why I think Mr T would have carried out the transfer,  I do not agree
that the funds  chosen matched Mr Ts risk profile.  Therefore, Portal  will need to carry out a
loss calculation and pay for any loss incurred.
I concluded that unless I was provided with further evidence,  I direct  Portal  to carry out a 
loss calculation and pay any loss to Mr T. When carrying out their calculations Portal  should 
refund their ongoing  fees. They should also pay to Mr T £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
the response to my provisional  decision
Portal havent provided any information regarding  the suitability of the funds with reference 
to their risk profile. But they have confirmed that the funds  are regulated by the FCA. As a 
result, theyd  like this element to be reconsidered.  
Mr T has explained  that he had already taken action  on the back  of the first report. Hes told 
us that by the time the revised report was sent the wheels were already  in motion with 
regards to the works he was having  done  to his property abroad.  And so, he felt committed.  
He believes he was given  bad information,  that wasnt professional.  Hes explained that he 
feels angry about what has happened and the price he was charged and is considering  
taking the matter to court.
Mr T therefore doesnt believe he was an insistent client and would still like his fees fully 
refunded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first consider the point raised by Portal. 
Portal pointed out the funds were  regulated  and having looked at this again I can see that 
they were.  Portal have otherwise accepted my conclusions. And the fact the funds were 
regulated hasnt changed my conclusions as they remained high risk. And given Mr Ts risk 
profile (a cautious  investor),  this still wasnt appropriate. As Portal havent provided  me with 
Ref: DRN97842685any information that has caused  me to change  my mind, I still think the advice given  was 
unsuitable. 
As stated in my provisional decision, I am satisfied the Mr T proceeded with this transfer  in 
full knowledge  of Portals adviser fees.  But I have concerns over the ongoing management 
fees charged by Portal for services Mr T has said he hasnt received. Both suitability reports 
clearly set out what Mr T would have  got in exchange for Portals  ongoing management  fees. 
This included:
an annual review  of Mr Ts pension portfolio;
an annual review  of Mr Ts attitude  to risk and personal circumstances; and
making relevant  recommendations to balance Mr Ts investments accordingly;
Despite having  asked Portal more than once  for evidence of the service  they provided  post 
transfer, to Mr T, nothing has been  shared  with this Service. Without evidence of this, I 
cannot agree that the ongoing fees were  reasonable. As set out in my provisional decision 
(and below),  the ongoing fees will therefore  not be applied to the benchmark  side of the loss 
calculation. 
Mr T hasnt  provided me with any new information.  He has said he had relied upon the first 
suitability report.  But he had previously told us that after receiving  it he contacted his OPS to 
clarify the opting  back in point. This demonstrates he didnt trust the report  hed been  given. I 
therefore cannot agree that he was reliant on the content of the first suitability report. He has 
also told us that accessing his tax free cash was important to him and he initiated  contact 
with Portal.  
Neither party has provided me with evidence that has changed my mind. As such, my 
position hasnt  changed from my provisional decision. I still think Mr T would have carried out 
the transfer. But I do not agree that the funds  chosen matched Mr Ts risk profile. If he had 
been given suitable advice, I think he would  have invested differently. Therefore,  Portal will 
need to carry  out a loss calculation and pay any loss incurred. 
Financial loss and redress
For the reasons  provided, I agree with the steps our investigator stated Portal need to take
to put things right. And Ive set these out again below, for the avoidance  of doubt. In 
addition, Portal should pay Mr T £250  for the overall distress and inconvenience  caused.
To compensate Mr T fairly Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ts investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no
compensation is payable.
For the avoidance of doubt  Portal should  not apply its ongoing management  fees to
the benchmark side of the calculation.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr Ts pension plan, to increase its value by
the amount of the compensation and any interest. Portals payment  should allow  for
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Portal shouldnt pay the
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or
allowance.
Ref: DRN97842686If Portal are unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ts pension plan, they should
pay that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should  be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ts actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if he would
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75%
of the compensation.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
Portal should also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
investment name
Status Benchmark from (start 
date)to (end  date) additional interest
SIPP Fund Mixedfor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income  Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from
fixed
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlement n/a
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Portal should  take ownership  of
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider.
This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance  paid as above.
If Portal are unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. Portal may wish to require that Mr T provides an undertaking
to pay them  any amount he may receive  from the investment in the future. That
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the
receipt from the pension  plan. Portal  will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a
return using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN97842687To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Portal  should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank  of
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Apply
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation for broadly the same  reasons as the investigator:
Mr T wanted  capital growth  but was only willing to accept a small amount of risk;
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
The mix and diversification provided  within  the index is close enough to allow  me to
use it as a reasonable measure of compensation given Mr Ts circumstances and
attitude to risk.
This brings  Mr T as close as possible, to the position he would have been in, if he wasnt
given unsuitable  advice. I appreciate Mr T may be disappointed as he was seeking a refund
of the upfront fees hes paid. But I must consider all of the circumstance of the case. And in 
this instance based on the evidence I have seen, this a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr T has commented  that hes considering taking this matter  to court. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to comment on whether or not he should do that. But he should be made 
aware that if he chooses to accept my findings,  it is unlikely that he will be able to pursue this 
matter in court thereafter
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, Ive upheld  Mr Ts 
complaint and direct Portal Financial  Services LLP to pay Mr T in the manner set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2021.
Chantelle Findlow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9784268