K822xcomplaint
Mr J and Ms Ms complaint  against  National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) concerns 
service issues  such  as the loss of interest when switching savers accounts, and their inability 
to open a new account due to Natwests mistakes and delays.
background 
Mr J and Ms M live overseas, but operate a Natwest savings account.  Their complaint 
originally went back to matters from 2006. But theyve since  accepted  that anything  more 
than six years before they complained to Natwest cant be considered  by us due to our 
jurisdiction rules.
So the complaint points  we can look at relate to their savers  account, which was switched, 
causing them a loss of interest,  and then the fact that they couldnt open a new savers  
account because  a Natwest change of policy meant the one they wanted was no longer 
available to them due to them living overseas.  Again, causing a loss of interest.
Our Investigator  has issued three views  on this complaint. The first was an uphold, with 
directions as to what Natwest should do to make good with Mr J and Ms M. The second 
maintained the uphold,  but changed  the redress by removing one of the actions required of 
Natwest. And the third reverted back to the first view. The reason for this is that after the 
second view the complaint  came for an ombudsmans opinion. And my provisional decision 
was that the first view was fair and correct, and should stand. 
Mr J and Ms M accepted  the third view,  but Natwest didnt. Hence Im now issuing  a final 
decision on the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think our Investigator was right in his first and third views,  and Im going  to 
uphold it on those terms.
I appreciate Natwest may not agree with my decision. Weve had some recent dialogue in 
which weve  explained why I think its not done  enough  to resolve matters with Mr J and Ms 
M thus far, and what I thought it needed  to do to put things right. Now were at final decision,  
Ill explain  further. 
Mr J and Ms M said Natwest changed their savers  account, which  meant they were receiving 
less interest than what they would have from their previous  one. And that they didnt know  
about this, so hadnt been able to do anything  about it. They  also complained that theyd 
attempted to open a new account to benefit from a higher interest rate but there were delays, 
which resulted in Natwest saying that this account could  no longer be opened because of a 
change in its policy which meant that overseas customers werent eligible.
Mr J and Ms M also explained Natwest continually got their address  postal  code wrong, 
which meant sometimes they never received  post at all, or it would very arrive late, even 
though when they wrote to Natwest,  the correct address details were always  given. 
Ref: DRN91079132Overall, Mr J and Ms M were unhappy  with the level of service received from NatWest, 
causing them financial  loss as well as stress  and inconvenience.
In response, NatWest  said it contacted  Mr J and Ms M in January 2015 to inform them  that 
the savers account  they held was going  to be changing to an Instant Saver Account; and 
sent further letters about this in January 2016.
NatWest said the reason  for the delay in processing the application for the new savers 
account was because although its systems showed  Ms M was a British national, it had a 
copy of her non-UK passport from 2006  showing this wasnt the case. It wasnt able to 
explain why this had happened.
NatWest agreed compensation was due to Dr J and Ms M, and paid them a total of £100  for 
the poor level of service  they experienced. But it didnt agree that it should pay for lost 
interest, or for the fact that a new account couldnt  be opened. 
Our Investigators first view (which I believe was correct, and was repeated in the third  and 
most recent  view) asked NatWest to pay Mr J and Ms M an additional £100 compensation; 
the difference in interest between the old and new savings accounts from January  2015 until 
January 2016;  any difference  in interest  between this existing account and the new savers  
account, from when  they applied  for the new account, until now; any tax which  might  not be 
recoverable in the last six years  if there  was evidence the tax forms were submitted to 
NatWest; and costs of telephone calls upon  submission of evidence on the call costs.
Since the third view,  Mr J and Ms M have  accepted  that the tax point need  not be pursued 
further. And Natwests position remains  that it shouldnt pay the interest on the original 
account from 2015 to 2016, because it didnt think Mr J and Ms M would have made any 
changes themselves before 2018.
Natwests view has been that because Mr J and Ms M didnt actually take steps to change  
this account until 2018 indicates  that even if theyd  known sooner they wouldnt have taken 
steps to ensure they didnt lose interest.
But I dont agree. Mr J and Ms M have made persuasive submissions showing that it didnt 
become clear until 2018 what  the effect of the changes in rates was on their savings, and 
that they didnt  unnecessarily delay. This information, and our interpretation  of it, has been 
shared with Natwest. 
My finding  is that they didnt unreasonably  delay to change their account, and so Natwest 
should pay the difference in interest from January 2015 to January 2016. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking National 
Westminster Bank Plc to:-
1.Pay Mr J and Ms M additional compensation of £100.
2.Refund the lost account interest  to Mr J and Ms M from January 2015 to January  
2016.
3.Refund to Mr J and Ms M the lost interest  from when they requested the new savers 
account (April 2018) to date.
Ref: DRN910791334.Reimburse Mr J and Ms M the cost of associated phone calls,  if they can be vouched  
by evidence.
5.To items  2-4, 8% simple interest  should  be added, from the time the payments ought  
to have been made, or costs incurred,  until settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9107913