K821x#15complaint
Miss M says that Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
Sunny approved 16 instalment loans  for Miss M between April 2017 and April 2018. Miss M 
said that she was in financial difficulty and the lending made her difficulties worse.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Sunny  shouldnt have continued to 
lend to Miss M from loan 5 onwards as she was reliant on this type of credit  and essentially 
using the loans to supplement her income.  The adjudicator thought  that by this point Sunny 
should have realised that further borrowing wasnt sustainable. Our adjudicator recommended  
that Sunny put things right for Miss M by refunding all interest  and charges incurred on loans 5 
to 16. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that Miss M was 
required to repay only a small amount of her declared income towards  her repayments. The 
fact that there were a number of loans open was because of the nature of the product and 
the flexibility it provided for consumers. After the complaint was passed to me Sunny 
reviewed its response and offered to refund interest and charges incurred on loans  7 to 16 to 
reflect that it should have asked further questions. As Miss M didnt accept this the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss M could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN99465242There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.  
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss M. It asked Miss M for 
details of her income and normal  expenditure. And Sunny  carried out checks  on Miss Ms 
credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Miss M loans 1 to 4 on the 
basis of the information she gave about  her income  and outgoings. It was early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As 
Miss M hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 
one to four, I dont  think that I need to say more about them.
At the point of loan 5 I agree with the adjudicator that Miss Ms borrowing pattern was a 
cause for concern. Miss M had taken out 5 loans totaling £1550 in less than two months. 
Taking out this many  loans within such a short time frame  should have prompted Sunny to 
consider whether this lending was sustainable for Miss M. Her pattern of borrowing 
suggested that she was reliant on short term credit and not managing her money 
responsibly. I think that Sunny shouldnt have given  Miss M loan 5.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Miss Ms lending with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Miss M.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ms case, I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say this because:
when Miss M took out loan six, shed  been  borrowing almost  continually and wasnt 
making any inroads  in to the amount that she owed. The loans  were  instalment loans, 
each with six month terms. But Miss M took overlapping  loans. I think  this pattern of 
lending shouldve  alerted Sunny to the likelihood that Miss M was having  problems  
managing her money. 
Ref: DRN99465243I think that Miss M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
the number of loans  that Miss M had taken from Sunny  was likely to have had negative  
implications on her ability  to access mainstream  credit.  This kept Miss M in the market 
for these high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  Miss Ms complaint about  loans  5 to 16.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges that Miss M paid on loans 5 to 16;
add simple  interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about loan 5 from Miss Ms credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded  
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 16 should  be removed from 
Miss Ms credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9946524