K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend him money.
background
Mr V took out two Uncle Buck  loans  heres  a table showing the loan details: 
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidAmountMaximum
Repayment
1 14/05/2018 05/07/2018 £100. 00 £38.16
2 05/07/2018 06/06/2019 £275. 00 £89.10
Mr V told us he took out consecutive loans to pay back  previous loans. 
Our adjudicator felt that the information  Uncle Buck had gathered  showed Mr V was having 
problems managing his money  - and so Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was unlikely 
Mr V would be able to sustainably repay loan 1  and any subsequent loans. So she thought  
that Uncle Buck shouldnt  have provided  either of the loans to Mr V. 
 
Uncle Buck  disagreed with our adjudicators view. Uncle Buck  mainly  said that just because  
an applicant has other short  term loans outstanding does  not mean, of itself,  that lending  
was unsustainable.  It said that Mr V misrepresented  his expenditure (by not including  
amounts paid out for leisure  activities) and that not all spending is included  on credit  reports. 
But Uncle Buck also said that to assist  Mr V clear his debts earlier, it would offer to discount 
his balance by £275.00, making  the remaining balance £203.83.
Mr V didnt feel this offer went far enough  to put things  right and hes asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr V 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN96712252But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr V could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint.
Uncle Buck  told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr V. 
Ive seen a summary  of the results  of those checks. Uncle Buck  could see that Mr V had 
three other short term high cost loans outstanding when he asked to borrow loan 1 from 
Uncle Buck   and Uncle Buck doesnt  dispute this.
 
Uncle Buck  says that Mr V declared income of £1400 and expenditure of £981  leaving him 
with disposable  income of £419.  And hed told Uncle Buck he had other credit commitments 
of at least £116. So, Uncle Buck said even if he had additional expenses this should  have 
left sufficient capacity  to meet the repayment of £38.16 on loan 1. 
And Ive taken into account  that Uncle Buck says, as a high-risk lender, even if a credit  file 
contains certain adverse information,  it would  still consider lending.  
Looking at what Uncle Buck knew about Mr Vs income and expenditure, those  figures 
suggest that the loan amount ought to have  been  affordable. But I think  the information 
shown on the credit checks it did shouldve made Uncle Buck realise  that being affordable 
on a pounds and pence basis didnt necessarily  mean that Mr V could afford to repay this 
borrowing in a sustainable way. 
Ref: DRN96712253I say this because  I think  that the extent of Mr Vs active debt, including with other payday 
lenders when he asked Uncle Buck for this loan, shouldve made Uncle Buck  realise that he 
was having money  problems.  
I think it shouldve been apparent to Uncle Buck that Mr Vs actual financial circumstances 
didnt reflect what his income and expenditure figures alone suggested. And whilst  Ive taken 
into account what Uncle Buck said about Mr Vs undeclared spending, this makes no overall 
difference to the outcome.
I think Uncle Buck shouldve realised that Mr V probably wasnt  asking it for a loan just to 
provide a short term fix for his cash flow problems or to cover an unexpected expense. To 
my mind, the information  Uncle  Buck had available shouldve made Uncle  Buck realise  that 
there was a risk that Mr V was reliant on taking out expensive credit  just to get by month  to 
month. So it was unlikely that Mr V was going  to be able to repay this loan in a sustainable  
way.
I think that ought to have  prompted Uncle Buck to decline  Mr Vs application. I dont think  it 
was reasonable  for Uncle Buck to conclude that it was likely  Mr V would be able to repay 
this, or any subsequent  loan, in a sustainable  manner.   
For these reasons, Im planning on upholding the complaint about these loans.
putting things right  what the lender should  do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr V towards  interest, fees and 
charges on loans 1 and 2, not including anything  it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr V which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr V originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr V the amounts  calculated in "A" and "B".
D.Remove any adverse  information Uncle Buck has recorded on Mr Vs credit file for 
loans 1 and 2.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Mr V as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9671225