K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs E says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
From what  we know of how Halifax normally sold PPI policies like Mrs Es, I think its likely  
Halifax asked whether Mrs E wanted  the PPI  and added it to her application only after 
shed said that she wanted it. 
Mrs E doesnt think this happened  in her case.  She says that at no point was it clear to her 
the PPI was optional. But from what shes told us, she doesnt remember  much about the 
sale. Thats  not surprising, given how long ago it was. But with this in mind, what Mrs E has 
said isnt enough  on its own to make me think Halifax  didnt give her a choice about the PPI 
like I think it normally  wouldve. And Ive not seen anything else that makes me think Halifax 
didnt give Mrs E a choice. 
With all Ive said above in mind, on balance I think its likely  Halifax  made it clear that Mrs E 
didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it. But I can understand why she might  not 
remember this now.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs E, so it had to check the PPI was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for Mrs E. 
For example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover   so 
she couldve  claimed on the cover if the circumstances  arose. 
Also, Mrs E seems to have had a need  for the cover. From what shes told us, her work sick 
pay wouldve halved after six months. For a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out for 
longer  up to ten months for unemployment  and twelve months for disability. And from what  
shes told us, Mrs E didnt have anything else to help her with her payments.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But I think its likely she chose to take it out - so it looks  to me like she wanted this 
type of cover. And, for the reasons  Ive already  set out above, it seems like the cover  would 
have been useful for Mrs E if something went  wrong. It also looks  like the cover  was 
affordable. Taking  everything into account,  I dont  think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mrs E off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about all Mrs Es points, including what shes  said about not needing the PPI 
because of her work benefits and how she wouldnt have bought it if the costs and benefits 
had been made clear.  But, for the reasons Ive already given above, these points dont 
change my decision.
Ref: DRN95408522What Ive said above means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt  need to 
refund everything  Mrs E paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs E back  some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand Halifax  has 
already paid this to Mrs E.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9540852