K821x#15complaint
Mr A says MYJAR  Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about eight short-term high-cost loans MYJAR provided to Mr A between
December 2016  and January 2018.  They varied  in term from three to six months. This is a 
summary of Mr As lending  history  from MYJAR.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 07/12/2016 07/03/2017 500
2 16/03/2017 13/04/2017 150
3 14/04/2017 05/05/2017 175
4 15/05/2017 07/06/2017 300
5 10/06/2017 07/07/2017 325
6 07/07/2017 07/08/2017 250
7 08/08/2017 05/01/2018 400
8 06/01/2018 07/06/2018 450
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr As complaint in part and thought loans  4 to 8 shouldnt have 
been given. MYJAR  disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN92227642But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
There was nothing to indicate MYJAR needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. I 
think it carried out proportionate checks looking at affordability and creditworthiness, and 
there was nothing in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make 
different lending decisions. So I dont  think MYJAR was wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Mr A. 
However, by loan 4 I think there were indications that Mr A was struggling to repay his loans. 
And so MYJAR  ought to have  realised  that to continue to lend to Mr A at this point in time 
might be harmful.  I say this because by then he had on three  occasions  taken  out another 
loan within  days of repaying his previous loan. And from loan 2 onwards he had each time 
asked for a higher amount. At this stage I think MYJAR ought to have considered that Mr A 
was not likely borrowing  to meet a temporary  shortfall in his income  but to meet  an ongoing  
need. And that this  and any subsequent loans in the short term  were not likely to be 
sustainably repayable for him. So I think MYJAR  was wrong to give loans  4 and 5 to Mr A.
  
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of MYJARs lending history  with Mr A, with a view
to seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that
Ref: DRN92227643it shouldnt have provided any further loans  until there was a significant gap in lending.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr As case, I think  that this point  was reached at
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point MYJAR  ought to have realised Mr A was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr A had taken out six loans within seven months. So MYJAR 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr A was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that 
Mr As indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Loan 6 was provided on the same day as Mr A had settled his previous loan. 
Mr A wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. He had taken 
out eight loans in 13 months, and there was no evidence of a consistent and 
significant reduction in the amount he was borrowing.  Mr A had paid high interest 
charges to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR  over an extended period.
The loans were  instalment loans, with between 3 and 6 month terms. But Mr A 
frequently repaid his loans early,  but then borrowed again a few days  later. I think  
this pattern of borrowing should have alerted MYJAR to the likelihood  that Mr A was 
having problems  managing his money. I think that MYJAR shouldve  been concerned 
that Mr A might be borrowing elsewhere  to repay loans, again increasing his 
indebtedness unsustainably.
I think that Mr A lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr As ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
MYJARs response to the adjudicators findings  asks for more information  on her findings  
and for confirmation  that its comprehensive business file was reviewed. I hope the detail I 
have set out above will help it to understand my decision more fully, one that I have reached  
after reviewing all available evidence. Its business  file provided a full explanation on the 
inputs and methods  it used to decide  if each  loan was affordable,  but I would remind it of its 
obligation to establish whether Mr A could  sustainably  repay  his loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were  affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  And as Ive 
explained, I think Mr As pattern of borrowing evidenced this was unlikely to be the case  by 
loan 4.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 8, and MYJAR should  put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 4 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Mr As credit  file
Ref: DRN92227644the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse, so all entries about  loans 6 to 8 should  be removed from     
Mr As credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give
Mr A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr As complaint. MYJAR  Limited  
should pay Mr A compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept
or reject my decision before 23 February  2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9222764