K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that he has had ongoing  problems with a car he obtained through  a Hire 
Purchase Agreement with Black Horse Limited  trading as Landrover Financial Services  
(Landrover). He would  like to reject the vehicle, have a refund of his money or get a new 
vehicle.
background
Mr W says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement for a new vehicle in September  2016.  He 
says he had multiple problems relating to the tail gate, gearbox,  internal power socket and a 
door being dented whilst being repaired.  
He is also unhappy  with Landovers customer service.  He says he has taken the car in a 
number of times for repair  and on some occasions was never  given a courtesy car.
He added he isnt happy with recent repairs on the car seat covers carried out under 
warranty.
He says his main complaint is with the problem with the tail gate. Although he says this has 
now been fixed he thinks it should  have been  sorted  before  he took delivery  of the car. He 
says he believes the problem with the tail gate was present  at the point of sale.
He says an approved  garage told him there was an alignment issue with the tailgate  and had 
was aware he had had problems from first getting  the car.
Landover didnt feel it was responsible for any issues with the car as there was no evidence  
there had been  problems  at the point  of sale.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found there was a problem with the tail 
gate but no evidence that this had been present at the point of sale. She noted  Mr W only 
reported the issue to Landrover in October  2018   some two years after he had the car.
In terms of the use of  a courtesy car our investigator found that as Landover wasnt  party  to 
the repairs on the car it wasnt responsible  for providing , or not , a courtesy car.
She didnt  feel Landover  was responsible for the seat cover  repairs as the repairs had been 
carried out under warranty.
Landover accepted this view but Mr W didnt. He said he had casually taken his car into the 
dealership on a number of times as he has used  that company for years  and is well known  
there. He said the dealership had contacted the investigator to confirm that there had been  
problems since Mr W got the car.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She said she had no 
evidence to show Mr W raised  any issues before 2017. And although she had spoken  to the 
dealership she wasnt persuaded  that there had been problems from the point of sale. She 
did agree  to speak  to the dealership again. 
Our investigator then spoke to the dealership once more but didnt feel, again, that 
conversation gave conclusive evidence there had been a problem with the tailgate at the 
point of sale. However she said as the tailgate had been repaired she didnt  feel it was 
reasonable to ask Black Horse to do anything else.
Ref: DRN97391942Mr W didnt accept this further view. He asked for an Ombudsmans  view and noted that the 
tailgate wasnt working again. And said Landover told him it cant  help him as this is a 
warranty issue. Mr W also asked  to talk direct  to the Ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Mr W wanted to discuss his complaint with me. I considered  this request but 
felt I had enough information  to make my decision without having to do so.
From the job sheets we have been  given work seems to have been carried out on the 
vehicle from December 2016. I am not going to list all of the jobs that have been done  as our 
investigator covered  that in her view. But it seems to me most of the issues were  minor ones 
for example replacement  of a battery earth  stud and USB and socket.  And they were 
resolved.  And as I understand it the main  issue Mr W isnt happy  about is the tailgate which  
he feels didnt work  from when he first got the car. 
Landover says it isnt responsible for the service  provided by the supplying dealer. But I dont  
agree with that. The supplying dealer acted as Landovers broker  with regard to the Hire 
Purchase Agreement so I do think Landrover is responsible for its actions.
From the job sheets the tail gate problem seems  to have first been investigated in October  
2017 with the tailgate being adjusted in November 2017 so over a year after Mr W got the 
vehicle. The supplying dealer has also given us information to show in Mary 2018 it 
realigned the tailgate and in February  2019 it refitted  it.
So I dont  think there is any dispute  that there  has been a problem with the tailgate. We 
would normally say that when faults occur after six months the onus is on the consumer to 
show these were present  or developing at the point of sale.
I am mindful  Mr W took out a Hire Purchase Agreement in September  2016  for a new high 
end vehicle. As such I think he could reasonably have expected not to have  any problems 
with it certainly not initially
Mr W says he had problems from the start and the supplying dealership  can confirm this. I 
have looked closely  at the information we have been  given.  It has confirmed that Mr W had 
several issues over two years. It has explained Mr W often pops in and is accommodated as 
a long standing  customer so some of these visits arent recorded in its logs.
However in a conversation with our investigator the dealership hasnt been  able to confirm 
that Mr W had problems  with the tailgate early on. And it has no record to show  this 
happened.  Its records first show an issue with the tailgate in October 2017 when it was 
investigated and then adjusted in November  2017.
Looking at all the information I have there is no record  to show  any issue  with the tailgate 
until a year after Mr W had the vehicle. So I dont believe I have any evidence  to show there  
was a problem  present  or developing at the point of sale. On that basis I dont think  its 
reasonable to allow  Mr W to reject the vehicle or for Landover  to have to replace it.
Ref: DRN97391943I appreciate since Mr W got our investigators  further  view he has now come back and told 
us that there is still a problem with the tailgate.  I believe this was repaired under warranty.   
And the warranty is still valid so Mr W can still make use of this. 
Although I can see its frustrating if the problem with the tailgate still hasnt been  resolved. I 
dont think that proves  the problem existed at the point of sale. So it doesnt change my view 
that I dont  feel there are any grounds to allow  Mr W to reject  the vehicle.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9739194