K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance policy  taken out with a mortgage. Mr 
and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc mis-sold  them the PPI.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs B and Santander  a provisional  decision on 10 May 2019 to explain why I 
was intending  to uphold the complaint.  An extract from my provisional decision is set out 
below:
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to check  that it was right 
for them. But, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time,  I dont 
think that it was.
Mr and Mrs B have  told us that Mr B had a number of medical conditions relating to his 
eyesight at the time of the sale. Theyve told us these  conditions had a significant  impact on 
Mr Bs day to day life, would get worse with age and have at times affected Mr Bs ability to 
do his job.
Mr and Mrs B have  also sent us evidence  to show that Mr B had been diagnosed with these 
conditions a number  of years before the sale of the PPI. So Im satisfied Mr B had these 
conditions as the time of the sale.
The policy wouldnt  pay out for claims for disability resulting from any condition  the 
policyholder had at the start of the policy. Which means  the policy wouldnt have covered 
any claims resulting from Mr Bs medical conditions.
Based on what theyve said, I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve  wanted  any potential  claims as a 
result of Mr Bs medical conditions to be covered by the policy.  And I dont think  theyd have 
bought the policy if Santander  had made  it clear to them that it wasnt right for them or that 
Mr Bs conditions  wouldnt be covered. So I think theyve lost out as a result of what 
Santander did wrong.
I said Id consider anything further Mr and Mrs B or Santander sent me.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Neither Mr and Mrs B nor Santander had anything further to add. And so I see no reason  to 
change the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. So I still think this complaint 
should be upheld,  for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN95961722putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs B in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander must  give Mr and 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9596172