K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK Plc is unreasonably withholding £1,761 of his money.
background
Mr S told us that on 31 December 2018  his father transferred a large amount of money into 
his bank account. He made a number of payments  but on 2 January 2019 Barclays froze  his 
account and placed it under review. It had a balance of £1,761  which included his salary. It 
then closed his account on 21 January. Mr S says Barclays told him that the transfer from 
his father  was fraudulent so Mr S sent it evidence from his father  it was a genuine payment. 
But it still wont release  the money  to him. And he said itd told him itd sent the money back 
to his fathers account but he hasnt received it.
Barclays told Mr S that his fathers  bank contacted it and said the payment made to Mr S 
was fraudulent and instructed Barclays to put a stop on it. It explained to Mr S that it would 
need documentation from his fathers  bank before it could  do anything more.
Our investigator thought Barclays had closed Mr Ss account in line with its terms and 
conditions and so didnt think itd done  anything wrong. And she didnt think  Barclays  had 
acted incorrectly by returning the money  as requested  to do so by his fathers bank. 
Mr S wasnt  happy about this. And he said Barclays had reported  him to the CIFAS database 
which is causing him serious  problems. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision but I dont think  Barclays  has done  
anything wrong. Mr S told us this was a genuine  transaction from his father.  And his father 
has written to confirm that. But Barclays said it needs confirmation from his fathers  bank 
before it can do anything more. Im satisfied its acted in line with the terms and conditions  
for Mr Ss account and in line with its policies and procedures  in this situation.  So I cant  see 
its made any mistake. 
Mr S says Barclays  told him itd sent the money back but his father  still hasnt received it. His 
father will need to speak to his bank about this. But I dont think  Barclays  can do anything 
more.
Barclays explained to Mr S that it would look into the CIFAS marker if his father  contacted 
his bank to confirm the payment was genuine. I think  thats reasonable and I cant  fairly ask 
it to do more than that.
Ref: DRN96326022my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9632602