K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) withdrew  cover  for his travel  
insurance policy following  a change in his health  and then refused to offer a refund for the 
policy he hasnt used.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold this complaint in part and I include an extract  from 
my decision  here:
Mr S had an annual travel  insurance policy with Great Lakes. He had three  trips planned  in 
2018. In the run up to the first trip he was required to go for some  tests in relation to a 
medical prognosis hed received, and he had to cancel the trip. He submitted a claim, and 
this was paid as per the policy terms and conditions. But when he received the results of the 
tests a diagnosis  was confirmed. Unfortunately, this diagnosis was an unacceptable risk for 
Great Lakes who informed him that it couldnt offer him cover any longer on this specific  
policy. 
Great Lakes said it couldnt provide  cover  for this condition.  So, he was told he could either 
make a cancellation claim for the remaining trips or cancel the policy.  Great Lakes told him 
that if he cancelled  the policy, hed receive  a refund. But if he decided to use the policy to 
cancel the trips then he wouldnt  receive any premium back. But when Mr S decided to 
cancel the policy Great Lakes retained the remainder of the premium and he didnt receive a 
refund as promised.  Great  Lakes said as hed already used the policy to make a claim for 
the first trip, the policy was in effect  used and no refund was due. However, Great  Lakes did 
offer to cover him with two separate single trip policies  which  were more  expensive. 
Mr S said hed been treated unfairly  as he hadnt  received  the full benefit of the policy  and he 
had to pay for new cover. Hes also unhappy  that there was no refund.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Great  Lakes had acted reasonably by 
deciding they were no longer able to provide cover on this policy. However, she didnt think 
Great Lakes acted fairly by retaining the remainder  of the policy  premium.  She asked Great 
Lakes to pay the difference between the old policy and the newer  single trip policies.
Mr S accepted the investigators opinion, but Great Lakes didnt. In summary, it said it was 
entitled to retain the premium, as a claim had been  made. Our investigators opinion  
remained the same so, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
how was Great Lakes  required  to consider  Mr Ss change in health?
Under the medical declaration heading  it says:
Ref: DRN95194342If, between booking a trip and the departure date, the status of a pre-existing medical 
condition changes, or you are diagnosed with a new medical  condition,  you must tell us as 
soon as possible and you will be covered for cancellation of your trip. However, if you still
wish to travel, we will advise you if cover is still available  under this policy.
Please note that you must tell us even if you have made a travel  claim in relation to a 
change to a pre-existing  medical condition or the diagnosis  of a new condition.
Given Mr Ss diagnosis  Im satisfied he was required to report this to Great Lakes,  and they 
acted appropriately  by considering what this meant for the policy. 
Great Lakes hasnt provided its detailed underwriting criteria  but I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for it to decline to provide cover. Great Lakes explained  that its annual 
premium policy offers  less cover  for certain medical  conditions, and that its single trip 
policies are more appropriate  for certain  medical conditions. I therefore  think Great Lakes 
acted reasonably by offering Mr S the option  to either cancel the policy or the holiday. I say 
this because, the policy explains:
If we are unable to continue cover  we will:
pay a cancellation  claim  for any pre-booked trip; or
give a pro rata refund of your premium if you do not wish to cancel your trip, unless  a 
claim has been made.
If we are able to continue  cover we may:
charge an additional  premium;  and/or
cancel your annual  policy  and offer cover under a single trip policy for the pre-booked 
trip.
should Great  Lakes  offer a pro-rata  refund?
Great Lakes has said it was entitled to retain the whole premium as a claim has been  made.  
However, this was never made clear  to Mr S when he was deciding  what  best to do. In our 
view to Great Lakes our investigator said that Mr S was incorrectly  informed that he would  
receive a refund. Great Lakes disagrees. It says that having reviewed the telephone call 
recording the customer was told he could have a refund if he didnt claim.  Great  Lakes go on 
to say there  was a claim,  so the information  provided was correct.
But, having  listened to the call I think Great Lakes have interpreted  it incorrectly.  Great 
Lakes advised  of the refund and even told Mr S the amount he would receive.  So, at this 
point Mr S thinks hes getting a refund. The agent then advised that if Mr S used the cover to 
make a cancellation claim for the two remaining  trips, he wouldnt  receive  a refund. The 
agent in the call says: just to advise, as youve not made a claim,  youd  be entitled to a 
refund of £160.78. Mr S acknowledges this and the agent then says If you make a claim on 
either the cruise  or the flights you wont get premium back. Its either one or the other.  
Ref: DRN95194343I dont think it would  be fair to link this advice back to the original claim. Mr S was actually 
told incorrectly that he hadnt made  a claim.  And even though he had, this claim wasnt  in the 
scope of this conversation. Theres no way from this conversation that Mr S couldve 
deduced that he wouldnt receive a refund if he cancelled so it would  be unfair to now say 
this was clear.
Great Lakes could argue  that even if this wasnt clear, it was clear in the policy terms and 
conditions. But based on the conversation Ive listened too I dont think  Mr S wouldve made  
the link between the first claim hed made  and not receiving a refund. During the call it was 
clear that he was unsure of what to do. He was looking for assistance and he was given 
incorrect information, upon which he then acted. So, I dont think its fair for Great Lakes to 
now say no refund is due.
As such,  to resolve this complaint, I think Great Lakes should  pay a pro-rata  refund of the 
annual policy premium  from the date this policy was cancelled.  Interest at the simple rate of 
8% per year must be added from the date of cancellation to the date of settlement. I 
understand it had no option but to cancel the policy. But Mr S was given  incorrect 
information during  that call, information  upon which he then based his decision. And 
whereas I appreciate this option  isnt stated in the policy terms and conditions, I do think it 
would be a fair and reasonable way to resolve  this issue in the circumstances of this case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have accepted my provisional findings, so I see no reason to depart from those
findings. I confirm  them  here, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
Great Lakes should  pay a pro-rata  refund of the annual policy  premium  from the date this 
policy was cancelled. Interest at the simple  rate of 8% per year must be added  from the date 
of cancellation  to the date of settlement. 
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint in part.
I require Great Lakes  Insurance SE to:
pay a pro-rata refund  of the annual  policy premium from the date this policy was 
cancelled. It must  add interest* to the refund at the simple  rate of 8% per year from 
the date of cancellation to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.  
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95194344*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should  also 
give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9519434