K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (T/A Halifax) didnt allow her to transfer  an 
amount from one of her credit cards to one she held with Halifax, thereby missing out on a 
promotional interest  rate.
background
Miss C said she applied  for a credit  card with Halifax in September 2018 and made a partial 
balance transfer  from her other credit card. She said she contacted  Halifax two months later 
and discovered  the promotional  rate for the balance transfer expired that day. So she tried to 
make another partial balance transfer  but was told it couldnt be done because  the 
addresses on her two cards didnt  match.  Miss C said she tried to resolve  the matter  with 
Halifax  including  asking  for an extension on the rate, but she said Halifax didnt want to 
help her. 
Miss C complained to Halifax  about  the way it had treated her and wanted it to be able to 
carry out the balance transfer  and waive any interest  charges shed paid. But Halifax  
although it accepted it hadnt  provided Miss C with good customer service, and paid her £75 
for the inconvenience  that had caused, didnt uphold her complaint. It explained that after 
following its security process it was able to manually complete the balance  transfer in 
September 2018. However, in November  2018, Halifax  confirmed Miss C had told it her two 
credit cards were registered  to different addresses and therefore it couldnt complete the 
transfer. It said it didnt think it had made any errors  and had followed its usual process  when 
accepting balance transfers.
Unhappy with this response Miss C brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and noted that Halifax had accepted  it had 
provided incorrect information and poor customer service and she thought  its offer of £75 for 
the inconvenience caused by those matters was fair and reasonable. But she said that  
after it was made aware of the different addresses, Halifax  wasnt  able to accept the balance 
transfer so she didnt think it had acted unreasonably and didnt need to pay Miss C for the 
interest shed been charged on her other card  for the balance  that wasnt  transferred. She 
also noted that Halifax had offered Miss C the option to update her address through  its app, 
which she thought  was reasonable. 
Miss C didnt agree. She said shed offered Halifax three separate  solutions to the address 
problem but on each occasion  it declined  to help. Miss C said she was just told to complain 
which she didnt want to do and was trying to be helpful despite Halifax having admitted it 
had acted illegally . She believed Halifax could have  contacted  her about  the address  
mismatch and ought to have dealt  with the problem  in a much  calmer, professional manner. 
She also said that she was unable to use the app at that point, which shed explained  
previously. So, as no resolution could be found  the complaints been passed  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive seen evidence of Miss Cs frustration 
that Halifax couldnt accommodate her request to balance transfer  from one credit card to 
Ref: DRN95338142another  and receive the promotional interest  rate available. And I have some sympathy for 
the position she now finds herself  in. 
But I dont think Halifax has acted unreasonably here, and I think its offer of compensation 
for any inconvenience caused  by the matter  is fair and reasonable. I know  this will disappoint 
Miss C, so Ill explain why.
When Miss C made a balance transfer  in September 2018  Halifax says its automated  
process wasnt able to confirm the necessary security checks. It says it asked Miss C to 
confirm that both her credit cards were registered  to the same address and as she confirmed 
they were the transfer completed. But, when she wanted to transfer  funds in November  2018  
Miss C told Halifax  the cards were registered  to different addresses.  Halifax said this meant 
it couldnt complete  the transfer.
Miss C has confirmed that she does hold a current account with Halifax  registered  to her 
parents address and the credit card is registered  to her home address. So I can see that she 
does use two different  addresses for the different financial products she has. Although its 
not clear why Miss C confirmed her credit cards  were registered  to the same address in 
September but not in November 2018,  I dont think Halifaxs position  was unreasonable.  
Having been unable to confirm the card addresses  were the same it said it couldnt accept 
the transfer. And I think Halifax had a duty of care to ensure Miss Cs accounts werent 
compromised so I think it acted reasonably in that respect. I know  Miss C has said Halifax 
told her it acted illegally by completing  the first balance  transfer.  I dont know  whether 
Halifax security  checks  should have allowed the first transfer  thats a matter  for Halifax to 
consider. But I dont think that means  it shouldnt have acted according to its usual 
processes for the second transfer  which Im satisfied  it did. 
But what  I would have  expected Halifax to do  having  taken  a decision not to complete the 
transfer because  of security issues, was to have offered Miss C some alternatives and other 
ways to resolve the matter. And I think it did as Ive seen how it advised  Miss C that she 
could have asked  her other card provider to change  the address  on that card,  and that she 
could have downloaded Halifaxs mobile  app and changed her address  securely   that 
way. Unfortunately Miss C says she couldnt do either of those  things at that time  although 
she says she offered Halifax a number of alternative solutions. 
But those  solutions  werent acceptable under  Halifaxs security procedures.  It has confirmed 
that it doesnt facilitate a change of address on the telephone and recommends customers  
use the app for such things because its more secure and provides greater account 
protection. So I cant say Halifax  has acted unfairly  here as its offered alternatives to Miss C 
which allow  for the additional account security she would have no doubt expected. 
I know Miss C says Halifax were inflexible and wouldnt work with her to resolve the address 
situation before the promotional rate ended. But I dont think that meant Halifax acted  
unreasonably because it couldnt adopt Miss Cs solutions. 
Its unfortunate that neither side could  agree a way to get Miss Cs address changed on that 
date before the end of the promotional period. And the unfortunate consequence of that was 
that Miss C was unable  to make her balance transfer in time. But I dont  think  that was 
Halifaxs fault. I cant safely  say it did anything wrong even though Miss C thinks it should 
have behaved  differently  and worked  with her to find a solution.
Ref: DRN95338143I know Miss C would like me to tell Halifax to transfer the balance in question   and for it to 
cover the interest  shes paid in the meantime  on that balance  on her other  card. And she 
would like us to tell Halifax  how it should  improve its communication  and customer service.  
But were  not here to tell a business  how it should  deal with complaints and queries  or to 
punish it for any errors its made.  Halifax has said some of its customer service was less 
than acceptable  and acknowledged it may have provided some  incorrect  information to 
Miss C  and has offered  to pay £75 for the inconvenience that caused.  And I think, looking 
at the impact  those  matters had on Miss C, thats  a fair and reasonable offer in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
I am aware  that Bank of Scotland plc T/A Halifax has made  an offer to pay Miss C £75 for 
the poor service  it provided. I think such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
My decision  is that Bank of Scotland plc T/A Halifax should pay Miss C £75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9533814