K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS).
background
In 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS.
Initially there was an issue with the rear tablet not connecting,  as well as condensation  in 
one of the rear lights  and both front headlights. There was also an issue  with the ashtray.
Mr S returned the car to the dealership several  times but the issues  werent  resolved. On 
one occasion  the car was returned  to him with scratches on the bodywork and marks on the 
interior leather.
The dealer  attempted to repair the damage but caused further damage by re-spraying the 
car the wrong  colour  and driving it over 700 miles.
Mr S says he was left without the car for several months whilst repairs were  carried  out. 
When the car was returned to him in November 2018 he noticed that some of his personal, 
items were missing,  including  a USB stick, pens, aftershave and a keyring.
Mr S complained to BMWFS. It acknowledged that he was unhappy  with the repairs and 
accepted his request for rejection. It said it would  cancel  the agreement  and return Mr Ss 
deposit. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with BMWFSs response. He said hed been left without his car for 11 
months and had paid over £23,000  in monthly  payments. He was unhappy that additional 
mileage had been covered whilst  the car wasnt I his possession and said hed paid for 
various expenses  in relation to the car including Protect X, road tax, car insurance,  gap 
insurance, wheel insurance and a one year warranty. Mr S said that the car hed been 
provided with whilst his car was being repaired wasntcomparable to his car.
Mr S decided not to reject  the car. Instead he wanted BMWFS  to arrange for the car to 
repaired and resprayed. He wanted his expenses reimbursed and compensation for loss of 
use. Mr S also wanted his personal items back and said the items contained on the USB 
stick were valuable.
BMWFS reimbursed Mr S for the cost of the Protect  X (£500).  It also refunded a paintwork 
repair of £350.  It refused  to reimburse  Mr S for road tax and insurance. It offered to 
compensate Mr S for the replacement cost of his missing personal items  but said it couldnt 
compensate him for the USB files because there was no evidence  that these  had been  in the 
car.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. The investigator said the issues  with the car 
didnt render it of unsatisfactory  quality but felt that Mr S hadnt been  able to use the car as 
he intended and that it had taken  a long time between  Mr Ss request for repair  in 
November 2018  and the repairs  being  completed in January 2019.  The investigator 
recommended that BMWFS refunded two monthly  payments.
Ref: DRN97193392Mr S didnt agree. He said hed been inconvenienced by the repeated  trips to the dealer  
between February and June 2018. He also said hed paid tax and insurance for a car he 
wasnt able to use.
BMWFS didnt agree either.  It said Mr S had been  provided with a courtesy  car whilst his car 
was being repaired. It also said it had reimbursed  £850 already.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied  
term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what  a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as price paid, fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
brand new car, such as the one supplied  to Mr S, to be of a very high standard.
I can see that Mr S has experienced a number of issues with the car. I can also see that 
further damage was caused to the car whilst it was being repaired. Whilst I appreciate that 
the issues required minor repair and caused frustration for Mr S, I dont think  these issues 
render the car of unsatisfactory  quality. From the information available,  the issues  have now 
been repaired and resolved at Mr Ss request.
The real issue here is whether  and to what extent   Mr S should  receive  compensation. 
Mr S has asked  to be reimbursed for expenses hes incurred in relation to the car and for 
items which he says have gone missing.
In relation to expenses  (road  tax, insurance  etc.), I think these are expenses  which  Mr S 
would have incurred  in any event as they are consistent with car ownership. So whilst  I 
appreciate Mr Ss point  that hes had to meet these  costs  whilst not being  in possession  of 
the car, he didnt have  to meet these costs in relation to the courtesy car. So hes not out of 
pocket.
In relation to the personal items which went missing from the car, its important that I make 
clear that Im only able to look at complaints against the finance company BMWFS. It 
wouldnt be fair to hold BWFS responsible for items  which  went  missing whilst the car was 
being repaired by the dealer. I do understand how upsetting it must have been for Mr S to 
discover that the items  went missing.  However, I cant  be certain that the items were  in the 
car and Im unable to quantify in financial terms any loss which Mr S has suffered.
I understand that Mr S was without the use of his car for an extended  period of time. Hes 
explained that although he was provided  with a courtesy car, it wasnt comparable to his own 
car. Generally, Id expect the business  to keep Mr S mobile for any periods he was unable to 
use his own car  but this doesnt  mean that the courtesy car provided  has to be on a like for 
like basis. That said I recognise that Mr S has suffered loss of use and enjoyment of a 
prestige car and Ive taken this into account  when considering appropriate compensation.
I can see that Mr S had to return the car to the dealer  on several occasions. I think  this 
wouldve caused him inconvenience. Ive also noted that it took a long time to resolve Mr Ss 
complaint  and in particular, it took a long time from when Mr S requested a repair in 
November 2018  until the repairs were completed  in January 2019. For these reasons I think 
Ref: DRN97193393Mr S should  receive  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in a sum 
equivalent to two monthly payments.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
should refund Mr S a sum equivalent  to two monthly payments for distress  and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9719339