K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that UCB  Home Loans Corporation Ltd.s Loyalty Flexible Variable Rate 
(LFVR) hasnt moved  in line with changes to the Bank of England Base Rate.
background
Mr S took out an interest only mortgage  in 1999. The mortgage  at the time was taken out on 
a three  year fixed rate at 5.99%. After  that, the mortgage would revert to UCBs Variable 
Rate (UCBV) which at the time was 6.59%.  Mr S remained  on the variable rate until 2005 
when he fixed his mortgage again. 
He went on to a two year fixed  rate at 5.55%  in April 2005 and also changed  his mortgage 
from an interest only basis to capital repayment. A further two year fixed  rate was taken out 
in May 2007  at a rate of 5.94%.
This rate expired  in 2009 and Mr S had discussions with UCB  about changing to a new rate. 
However, UCB were  no longer offering the drawdown facility on this mortgage account.  This 
meant that if Mr S switched to a new rate, he would lose the flexible  benefits  of borrowing 
back any funds which he had previously  overpaid. As Mr S didnt go onto a new product he 
switched to UCBs LFVR which at the time was 4.79%. This rate increased to 5.29% in 
February 2010.
In May 2011  Mr S changed  his mortgage repayment  vehicle back  from a capital repayment 
one, to interest only where it remains the same to this date. The LFVR increased  by 0.25% 
in September  2018 to 5.54%.
Mr S wasnt  happy that the LFVR didnt track the Bank of England Base Rate so he 
complained to UCB. They said that the rate didnt track the Bank of England base and any 
changes were made in line with their terms and conditions.
Mr S disagreed with this so he brought the complaint to our service where it was looked  at 
by one of our investigators. She thought that the rate had been applied fairly   so she didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this. He said:
he incurred an extortionate interest rate which never reduced but only increased  
following on from Bank of England Base  Rate.  
he was advised  to stay on LFVR at 4.79%
he didnt receive  any correspondence informing him that his rate was changing
other significantly cheaper products with the benefit of a drawdown facility  were 
available on the open market but this was not mentioned to him at all
he was suffering from chronic  fatigue which made decisions difficult  for him so he 
was relying on UCB treating him fairly
Mr S asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman so it has been  passed to me 
to decide.
Ref: DRN94888142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I appreciate Mr S has strong 
feelings about his compliant, I wont be upholding it. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S and UCB  have said and what  I have gone on to 
consider overall,  is how UCB applied their rate changes generally, and if these changes  are 
applied fairly  in line with their terms and conditions.
I havent seen  anything in the terms and conditions which  suggests  that UCB  are 
contractually obliged  to change their LFVR when the Bank  of England  Base Rate changes.  
Lenders can take these  changes  into account  when setting their rates   and they often do. 
But they dont  have to apply changes  just because the Bank of England Base Rate  changes  
at any given time.
The terms and conditions  also say that UCB can change  their LFVR at any time as long as 
they give notice   which I believe they have.  The statements that I have seen on file show  
that notice was given and that these were  sent out to Mr S, at his known postal address.
Mr S has said that he didnt receive  correspondence following on from the increase and post 
continued to be sent to an incorrect address. UCB have told us that there  was some 
correspondence they sent out which was returned  as they were not aware of a change  of 
address. But this appears to be quite a long time ago. Ive reviewed the statements that have 
been sent to Mr S notifying him of changes to his interest rates  and I can see that these 
have all been sent to his current  address. So I cant agree  that he hasnt been notified.
With regard to the interest rate change in 2010,  UCBs  terms and conditions  allow  them to 
change the LFVR if they need to. They are entitled to do this, among other reasons, to 
reflect costs associated with specific changes in relevant market conditions  including 
technological changes  and changes in services or facilities provided (clause 10.2 iv b). I can 
see that Mr S was notified of this change in January  2010 within  the annual statement  sent 
to his known address.  
The change of interest rate in September 2018  was undertaken under clause 10.2 (iv) (a) 
and was taken  due to changes in prevailing  markets, as the Bank of England increased its 
rate by 0.25%    which  again they were  entitled  to do. Mr S was notified of this change in 
August 2018 (statement) which was sent to his home address. Both of these changes  are in 
line with the terms  and conditions and Im satisfied that they were applied  fairly.
Ref: DRN94888143Mr S has said that he was advised  to go onto the LFVR  in 2009. This was at the time where 
discussions appeared to have taken  place letting him know  that the drawdown facility  was no 
longer available on new products. I havent seen anything which makes me think  that Mr S 
was advised to stay on this product.  I can see from his mortgage statements that he paid 
more than was required towards his mortgage which meant  he acquired an overpayment  
reserve. This overpayment reserve entitles Mr S to drawdown this money, should he want to 
borrow it back  which is something he wanted to have the benefit of. So whether Mr S was 
advised to stay on this product or not, Im not sure he would have done anything  different 
because of the facilities that it offered - which he made use of. Mr S was given the choice of 
keeping this facility  or taking a lower interest  rate, and he chose  to keep the facility.  I dont 
think this was unfair.
Mr S had taken out a mortgage with the reserve facility. Nothing in the terms of the mortgage  
offer entitled  him to a new interest rate when his old one expired. UCB no longer wanted to 
offer reserve  mortgages. All its new interest  rate products  no longer included this feature. It 
wouldnt be fair just to withdraw this feature from Mr Ss mortgage.  But he was given the 
option to change his mortgage  to a lower rate that didnt include the feature, or keep his 
mortgage the same and continue to benefit from the reserve feature.
In addition to this, if Mr S was unhappy  with how the LFVR was applied to his mortgage, he 
could, if he wanted  to, have changed  his mortgage  to another  lender. I appreciate he said 
that there  were other drawdown  products  available  on the market  which  was not mentioned 
to him, but UCB didnt have  to do this. And from what Ive seen there were no contractual  
barriers put in place  by UCB which stopped Mr S in moving his mortgage   such  as an early  
repayment charge.
If there were changes in Mr S circumstances, or in the market, which means  he was unable  
to move his mortgage  elsewhere, this isnt something Id expect UCB to have foreseen  or 
something they were  responsible for. So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold them  
accountable for that  if it applies here.
I appreciate that Mr S has been unhappy  with the interest  rates applied to his mortgage 
account over years  and I empathise that it may have been a difficult time for him due to his 
health conditions.  But Im satisfied that UCB  have  treated him fairly in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint.
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think the changes  applied by UCB  have  been  done so 
reasonably and fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9488814