K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
Background
In July 2018 Mr M acquired  a second  hand  diesel car costing £5,990  funded by a hire 
purchase agreement  and a small deposit. The car was some  seven  years  old and had done 
75,627 miles. Two weeks later he was informed that the car was emitting  blue smoke  and he 
took it to local garage. He says he was told that this was most likely due to a fault with the 
turbo, worn valves or guide seals.
He took the car to the dealer  and asked to be allowed to reject  it. The dealer couldnt  
replicate the smoke and replaced  the air filter and replaced the oil in the turbo  filter. It 
suggested he drive  it for 2,000 to 3,000  miles to see if the smoke  subsided which it thought 
may have  been  due to it sitting on the forecourt  for a long period. Mr M was unhappy  with 
this and suggested an independent inspection.
In October  Mr M took the car back and the car remained  with the dealer for some time. It 
concluded Mr M had filled the car with petrol rather than diesel and this had been the cause 
of the fault. Startline issued its final response  letter and in February 2019. Mr M supplied a 
diagnostic that showed smoke was still being  emitted and he also obtained evidence that he 
hadnt filled the car with petrol.
As Startline  had rejected his complaint Mr M brought the matter to this service.  It was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who recommended it be upheld. He noted that Mr M 
had stopped using the car in February  2019  and he had only driven it for some  300 miles. 
He also noted  that Mr Ms suggestion to have the car subjected  to an independent  inspection  
had been rejected and Startline had maintained this position throughout.
Our adjudicator didnt  believe  there  was sufficient  evidence to show that fuel contamination 
had occurred and he thought Mr M had made  the dealer aware  of the issues  immediately 
and his concerns  hadnt been properly addressed. It was up to the dealer and Startline to 
demonstrate the car was fit for purpose. He reckoned Mr M should be allowed to reject the 
car.
The business didnt  agree and said Mr M hadnt provided a diagnostic to show the same 
issues were still present and he hadnt  let the dealer  opportunity  to look at it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Startline is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
Ref: DRN95854992The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Mr M identified a fault with 30 days,  had it inspected by a third party  who gave several 
possible causes. He then took the car back to the dealer and asked if he could reject it, but 
the dealer said no fault could be found.  There  is no job card and so we dont know  what tests 
were carried  out. Mr M offered to pay for an independent inspection,  but this was rejected. 
No reason has been given for this.
Later the dealer suggested  the fuel had been  contaminated  and Mr M went to great lengths 
to prove  that he hadnt filled the car up with petrol. However this seems to have had no 
impact in Startlines approach to the complaint. The last recorded  mileage  was 75,936  and 
Mr M estimates he has driven the car for a further 60 miles. This means he had done less 
than 400 miles and as such I am happy to accept  that he only filled it up once. 
If petrol  had been  used  rather than diesel it may well have happened  before Mr M bought the 
car. However, I dont  find the dealers claim to have found evidence  of petrol in the tank very 
persuasive. It has produced no evidence  to support that claim.  
This matter could have  been resolved much sooner had the dealer and or Startline agreed to 
an independent report. The Consumers Rights Act 2015 allows a consumer to reject  faulty 
goods in the first 30 days. Mr M provided supporting evidence from a third party  that the car 
was faulty and if the dealer hadnt been  able to find the fault then it would have been  
sensible to go with Mr Ms suggestion  of an independent inspection. The onus wasnt on Mr 
M to prove there was a fault.
On balance I am satisfied  there was fault which wasnt properly addressed  and as it was 
brought to the attention  of the dealer within 30 days Mr M should  have been  allowed to reject  
the car. 
Ref: DRN95854993My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Startline Motor Finance  Limited 
to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
refund  any payments  made from inception onwards as he has had little use the car
collect the car at no further cost to Mr M
refund  any deposit Mr M may have paid
pay interest at 8% simple  interest to be paid on all sums  repayable  from date of 
payment to date of settlement
remove the agreement from Mr Ms credit file
pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9585499