K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with his mortgage  valuation. He wants  a refund of a valuation 
fee of £248 and the costs  of his attendance at the property, and compensation.
background
Mr R applied for a remortgage of his buy-to-let property. He said that NatWests online 
valuation system under-valued his property as it was linked  to an old valuation updated 
using the HPI index.  Mr R paid for a new valuation  to secure a better mortgage deal. After 
Mr R paid for the valuation, the HPI index  was updated and Mr Rs property was then in the 
same valuation bracket as indicated  by the actual  valuation.  
Mr R asked for a refund  of the valuation fee as he said NatWest shouldve  known  the online 
valuation system was about to be updated and suggested he waited, rather  than pay for a 
valuation. NatWest said that it wasnt required to disclose its internal processes to 
consumers and it didnt  tell its staff when the HPI index might change.
Mr R complained to us. NatWest said that it wasnt told in advance when the HPI index 
would change. The adjudicators view was that NatWest wasnt  at fault. He said that HPI 
index was an external  system not run by NatWest and it couldnt be expected to know when 
it would  be updated.  The adjudicator also pointed out that if customers were  told when the 
system was updating, there was no guarantee that the value of a particular property would 
increase so waiting  for an update could disadvantage some.  He thought  that it was fair and 
reasonable not to tell customers when the HPI index  was due to be updated and to just use 
the information on the relevant date.
Mr R disagreed. He was adamant that NatWest would know  when HPI index data was being 
uploaded to its systems,  and it should tell its staff and customers  when that was due to 
happen. Mr R felt hed been unfairly  treated and customers should be given the choice  of 
waiting or paying  for a valuation. The adjudicator didnt change  his view.  Mr R made further 
points and sent further evidence about the valuation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R was only able to get a better mortgage deal if the value of his property reached a 
particular level. It was fair and reasonable for NatWest to allow  Mr R to challenge its online 
valuation. According  to the notes  made  at the time (and I place weight on these 
contemporaneous notes as they were made at the time and before the complaint was 
made), Mr R was told that the valuation fee was non-refundable. It was his choice to 
proceed. And as the valuation was carried out, the work has been done, so I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable for the fee to be refunded.
Ref: DRN97846822Mr R says that NatWest shouldve told him that the HPI index was about to change.  But the 
HPI index  is independent  of NatWest, and its evidence is that it didnt know exactly when it 
would change (though it is updated  monthly). In the modern era, theres  no evidence before 
me to say that NatWest must be told in advance  the update could well be automatic. And 
in any event, I dont  accept that lenders  should  routinely tell customers when  valuations  
might change, particularly when dealing  with commercial customers  such as Mr R (a buy to 
let mortgage of this type is a commercial transaction). This transaction was on a non-advised 
basis, NatWest isnt an expert in valuations,  and theres no guarantee that valuations will 
rise. Its fair and reasonable to simply use the HPI data on the date of application. And as the 
index is updated  every month,  Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve waited in the hope the 
valuation improved, given  the interest  rate he was currently  paying.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 26 July 
2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9784682