K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains Santander UK Plc are holding him liable for transactions  he didnt authorise.  
He also says Santander allowed direct debits to go through  when there  werent enough 
funds in his account, and he incurred  charges.  And hes unhappy he was charged overdraft 
fees even though he didnt agree  to this when he opened the account.  He also complains  
Santander have  closed his account giving 30 days notice.
background
In 2017 Mr A noticed multiple transactions to a number of different betting sites and to a 
company, Ill call A, which he says he hadnt  authorised. Mr A says he authorised  some  of 
the transactions to the merchants, but hes not been  able to specify exactly  which  ones. 
Mr A also said he never set up a direct  debit for his insurance company and payments for his 
insurance were released when he didnt have funds, so he incurred charges unnecessarily.  
He also queried  direct debits to a telephone provider.
Mr A says he shouldnt have been  charged  overdraft fees with his account as he believes his 
account didnt  charge  for overdraft facilities. He also said he was given 30 days notice in 
September 2017 that the bank was to close his account.
Account closure
Mr A complained to Santander. In looking at the disputed transactions  the bank said it could 
only look at transactions  13 months prior to them being raised as per their terms and 
conditions. And they found no evidence of fraud. 
When considering  the other complaint points, they said the account had always  charged for 
overdraft facilities. And the direct  debits for Mr As insurance had been reversed on 
numerous occasions due to insufficient funds. The merchant would then re-present the direct 
debit for collection and if there were enough funds  in the account the direct debit would go 
through.
Santander said theyd  closed Mr As account in line with its terms and conditions  and gave  
him 30 days notice. 
Mr A complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint and 
said in summary he didnt think Santander needed  to do anything  more. He thought  
Santander hadnt made a mistake by not refunding the disputed transactions.  He also said 
the bank was entitled to close a customers account  when giving 30 days notice 
A second investigator looked at Mr As complaint. In summary he reached the same  
conclusions to the first investigator  That it was fair for Santander not to consider the 
disputed transactions  raised outside of 13 months  and he thought  the other transactions  
were authorised.  
In response to the view Mr A said
he hadnt authorised the account  to change to one that charged overdraft fees. 
He said he didnt  look at his transactions until 2017
he set up online banking in 2015/16. 
Ref: DRN91991282Mr A was not happy with the investigators  view, so the matter has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out in 
the second view and for much the same  reasons. 
Overdraft charges
We cant usually consider a complaint which is referred to us  or the business  more than 
six years  after the event thats been  complained about. Or three years from when the 
complainant became aware  or should have been  aware  they had cause for complaint. 
Mr As account was opened in May 2009  so six years from this would be May 2015. Mr A 
contacted us in October 2017  to raise this complaint,  so out of the six-year timeframe.
But I also need to consider when  Mr A became aware, or should  have been aware, of the 
need to complain. 
I can see that statements  were issued to Mr A. Mr A has said he didnt  receive statements so 
wasnt aware of the overdraft charges.  But even  if I accept  Mr A didnt get the statements, 
Ive seen evidence  Mr A accessed  his online banking  from 2013. So, Id have expected  him 
to have identified  the need  to complain much  sooner  than he did.
Because Im satisfied  Mr A was receiving  bank statements and was using online banking  
from 2013, I think Mr A couldve queried with the bank if he thought the account was wrongly 
being charged fees for overdraft. I think Mr A knew or ought  to have known about the 
changes to the account. Since he didnt raise  the complaint within three  years  of when he 
reasonably ought  to have been  aware of the charges, Im unable to consider this part of the 
complaint.
Disputed transactions between 2002  and July 2016
Mr A has queried betting transactions  going  back to 2002  Under the Payment Service  
Directive the consumer is entitled to redress only if they notify the bank without undue delay 
- and no later than 13 months  after becoming  aware of any unauthorised transactions. 
This is reflected in the terms  and conditions of Santander which  says:  
13.1
You are responsible  for transactions  from your account and any fees or interest incurred as 
a result of those transactions if:
g) you failed to tell us the transaction was unauthorised, incorrect or not carried  out by us 
within 13 months of the date on which  the transaction occurred or ought to have occurred.
This means  that unless transactions have been queried within 13 months then the bank will 
not consider the disputed transactions. Santander said theyd only consider the disputed 
transactions between  August 2016 and September 2017. I agree that as Mr A raised  the 
Ref: DRN91991283complaint about  the disputed transactions in September 2017, the terms and conditions of 
his account say Santander can only consider transactions from August 2016.
Ive considered if its fair and reasonable for Santander to rely on these terms to refuse to 
look at Mr As older disputed transactions. Ive seen evidence Santander sent statements to 
Mr A from when  the account  was set up and Mr A registered for online banking  in 2013. Mr A 
has said he didnt get the statements so couldnt  alert the bank. Ive seen evidence which 
shows he used online banking since 2013 so could have spotted  the disputed  transactions  
even if he hadnt  received  the statements the bank  sent him over the years.
I understand Mr A says he wasnt aware of the disputed transactions until September 2017, 
but Im satisfied its not unreasonable  for Mr A to have checked his statements or online 
banking before this. So, he ought to have been  aware of the need  to complain to the bank 
soon after the transactions  occurred.
So, I think Santander have acted fairly  and reasonably in relying  on their terms and 
conditions to not refund the transactions. 
Disputed transaction between 15 August 2016 to 15 September  2017
In respect of the transactions  Mr A disputes,  which occurred between 15 August 2016 and 
15 September 2017, I need to consider if Santander  acted  fairly when it declined to refund  
these transactions.  The transactions  have  been  set out in the investigators view. Mr A is 
disputing a large number of gambling transactions  to a number  of different online sites  as 
well as some  online  payments to A 
In general Santander can hold Mr A liable for the disputed transactions  if these were made 
or authorised by him. The relevant regulations are the Payment Service Regulations 2009 
(PSRs 2009). I am satisfied the banks technical evidence  shows  the transactions were  
authenticated by the card details being entered. But, this isnt enough to allow Santander  to 
hold Mr A liable  for the transactions he disputes.  I need to consider whether  its more likely 
than not Mr A consented to the transactions.
From the evidence I have  seen I think its reasonable for Santander to conclude Mr A carried  
out the transactions. I say this because:
one card was in use during the 13 month period of the disputed transactions  between 
August 2016 and September  2017. Mr A lives on his own and Ive not seen any 
evidence or a convincing explanation for how anyone else could have taken and 
replaced Mr As card without  him realising.
Mr A said he used  the gambling  websites for some transactions.  And Mr As bank 
account was credited  with some winnings from the gambling websites none  of which  
were transferred out of his account. I cant see how a fraudster wouldve got any 
benefit from the winnings and so I think its more  likely than not those transactions  
were being made by Mr A.
The information held by the gambling websites matches the information  Santander  
holds for Mr A. This includes his email address, date of birth, addresses Mr A has 
lived at and card details. I find it surprising that Mr A wouldnt have been notified  by 
the sites  when the deposits  and withdrawals  he says he didnt  authorise  took place. 
Ref: DRN91991284Mr H has queried the transactions to A but not the setting up of As account. He 
hasnt been clear about which transactions  he disputes  but has not provided  any 
evidence as to how his account  was accessed by a fraudster.  The transactions to A 
were all carried out by debit card and the correct CVV was entered  when  requested 
with no failed attempts.  
I also think if a third party had access to Mr As online banking fraudulently, that fraudster  
would have likely emptied the account of funds and that didnt happen. So, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr A did authorise the transactions.  
In response to our investigators opinion on the disputed  transactions  Mr A said he didnt 
look at his transactions until 2017  and he set online  banking up in 2015/16.  He said 
someone else was using his online banking. Mr A has not provided any evidence to support 
this. On the contrary the evidence I have seen suggests Mr A had access  to online banking 
from 2013. 
Taking everything into account  I find on balance Mr A authorised the disputed  transactions. It 
follows Santander is entitled to hold him liable for them.
Direct Debits to the insurer  and a phone provider 
Mr A has said he never set up the direct debits to the insurance company. And he was also 
concerned Santander was releasing payments at times when he had no funds thus incurring 
charges for Mr A. Our investigator explained  decisions about  payment releases are 
automated and so Santander wouldnt have a say in when the payments were  sent to the 
insurance company.  Case law allows Santander  to enable payments to go to the insurance 
company even if this would put Mr As account into unauthorised overdraft. 
I am satisfied Mr A did set up the direct debits  to the insurance  company. I say this because  
I have seen the audit reports provided by Santander  and as I have  explained Santander 
could not influence the timing of these payments. Santander have acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the account  in allowing automated  payments to go through when 
there are sufficient funds  on the account,  or the payment doesnt  exceed the limit Santander 
may have  for an unauthorised overdraft.
Mr A has also queried direct debits to a phone provider saying he did not set this up. I can 
see there is a creation  request  for a direct  debit in March 2019.  The correct payer and 
account details  have been provided.  This direct debit was cancelled  in September  2019 
following the last payment  to the merchant.  So, I am satisfied Mr A set up the direct  debit  to 
the phone  provider.
I dont think, when looking at the evidence, Santander have done anything wrong regarding  
the direct  debits to the insurer or the phone provider.
Account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just like a customer  may close  an 
account with a bank. But before it can close an account a bank must do so in a way which  
complies with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Ive seen evidence  that Mr A was sent a letter on 26 September 2017 giving him 30 days  
notice of the closure of his account.
Ref: DRN91991285As Santander gave  notice  of the account closure, I have looked at the terms and conditions 
it relied on. Having  looked  at the terms and conditions of Mr As account I can see Santander 
can close an account with less than 60 days notice in certain  circumstances. And Im 
satisfied they complied with these terms. 
Although Mr A would  like to know the reasons for the closure of his account Santander is not 
obliged to give him the reasons. I have  checked  whether Santander  have complied with its 
own terms and conditions  when closing Mr As account. I can confirm  Santander  has done 
so and I will not be asking  it to do anything more.
I appreciate that the closure of Mr As account caused him inconvenience. But the bank can 
make commercial decisions  about who it offers banking services  to. They cant  unfairly 
discriminate against  a customer But, they can decide they no longer want to do business 
with individuals.  Thats because  they have the commercial freedom to decide who theyd  like 
to contract  with. And Im satisfied that in Mr As case Santander exercised its commercial 
freedom legitimately when  it decided to close his account. So, I cant  fairly and reasonably  
say Santander  have done anything  wrong  here. 
In summary  I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr A, but I dont think  Santander  have done 
anything wrong  here. If follows  I wont be asking  them to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold the complaint  against  Santander  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9199128