K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society 
(Chelsea) acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing with Mrs L about their mortgage.  
They want  to be able to deal with Chelsea through a paper or online process  in order  to 
make changes to their mortgage.
background 
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with Chelsea with parts  being  paid on an interest  only basis. 
Mrs L called  it to find out how to change to repayment and was told that this would involve 
talking on the phone  for about 45 minutes. Mrs L said that as she was in an individual  
voluntary arrangement (IVA), she knew that this conversation would make her anxious and 
depressed. Mr and Mrs L said Chelsea had told them the only way to change their mortgage  
was to have this financial conversation over the phone. They thought that this was unfair and 
unreasonable and wanted to deal with matters  on paper or online as much as possible, 
though were willing to speak after giving  all the information in advance in paper or online.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to Chelsea. It said that it had to go through  Mr and Mrs Ls income  
and spending  in order to check whether moving to a repayment mortgage  was affordable  
and to select a suitable product to meet their needs. Chelsea set out the areas it would  want 
to explore over the telephone and said that Mrs L could have a third party present to support 
her.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to us. The adjudicators view was that Chelseas own vulnerable  
customer policy should be used  to assist Mr and Mrs L and it should be more flexible in its 
approach. He didnt  see why the income and spending information couldnt be collected 
using a form which Mr and Mrs L could  complete  on paper, or why email  couldnt be used  to 
ask further questions. The adjudicator pointed out that the initial  information could be 
collected as Mrs L wished and then an appointment with an adviser  over the phone  could be 
made. He said that Chelsea  should  allow Mr and Mrs L to provide details of their financial 
position in writing, but that no compensation for trouble and upset should be made  as it was 
reasonable to require  consumers to discuss their needs with a lender.
Chelsea disagreed.  It said that it had done everything they could to assist  Mr and Mrs L, 
though it noted that apparently Mr L was uncomfortable about  discussing financial issues.  
Chelsea also said that this service shouldnt try to change  Chelseas processes, though  the 
adjudicator pointed out that he was simply saying  that the affordability review should  still 
take place, just in a different way. Chelsea said that it didnt have secure email so it couldnt 
deal with Mr and Mrs L in that way. 
Chelsea did agree though  that the income  and spending could be set out in a form, but said 
it then needed  to speak to Mr or Mrs L on the phone  to ensure that they fully understood the 
change they wanted to make and could afford the increase  in monthly  payments.  It offered to 
ensure only one member  of staff deal with the whole matter,  including  any application to 
borrow more money,  and to allow the call to be made from a branch of a related business so 
that staff were on hand to assist (but not advise). Chelsea re-iterated that a third party could 
also be present to support Mr and Mrs L and breaks  could  be given if the discussions 
became too much for Mrs L. The adjudicator thought that this offer was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN96106172Mr and Mrs L said that theyd been previously told that correspondence by email was 
possible with Chelsea; they were concerned that in a call Chelsea would try to discuss their 
income and spending. Chelsea explained that it hadnt told Mr and Mrs L that it was possible 
to discuss matters by email, but it had said the income and spending form could be emailed  
to Chelsea as it would encrypt that information.  It couldnt encrypt  outgoing emails from 
Chelsea to Mr and Mrs L, which was why it couldnt  discuss matters by email. The 
adjudicator agreed  with Chelsea  that it was necessary  to discuss any questions over the 
phone, rather  than by email  as Mr and Mrs L wanted, to ensure that the member of staff 
advising them was confident that Mr and Mrs L understood what  was being advised. 
Mr and Mrs L wanted an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chelsea is correct when  it says that its required to check  that changing the mortgage from 
interest only to repayment is affordable for Mr and Mrs L. And the requirement to do this has 
become stricter in recent years due to changes in the mortgage  rules. Chelsea is also 
required to ensure that consumers understand what theyre being  advised to do, which  does 
involve communication.  
But Chelsea  is also required to treat consumers fairly and reasonably, and to give particular 
assistance to vulnerable  consumers. The definition of vulnerable is flexible and a consumer 
can be vulnerable  temporarily or permanently; its worth noting  that a person doesnt need to 
be disabled  to be vulnerable. Chelsea didnt use its vulnerable  customer policy when  dealing  
with Mrs L, despite  her explanation that due to her IVA (financial difficulties),  she becomes 
anxious and depressed discussing her finances  (mental health issues).  To be fair to 
Chelsea, it isnt clear why Mr L cant talk to it  theres a reference to him being 
uncomfortable, but that isnt a satisfactory  explanation. But its enough in my view to trigger 
the vulnerable  customer policy for a lender to be told that one of its customers  (Mrs L) wants 
to engage with it but has difficulties using its standard method of communication.
I think that as its not unfair or unreasonable for a lender,  given all the requirements upon  it, 
to want to discuss finances with a consumer  wanting to change  their mortgage, this isnt a 
complaint where  compensation for trouble and upset would be fair or reasonable. I note that 
Mr and Mrs L arent seeking this either. The problem is where do the parties go from here?
Chelsea now accepts that it should  use its vulnerable customer policy to assist 
Mr and Mrs L. I think that this is fair and reasonable. Theres no dispute that the initial  
information about income and spending could be given to Chelsea in writing by way of a 
form. I also think that this step is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Mr and Mrs L 
accepted initially  that there is a need to speak to Chelsea to discuss what product would 
meet their needs  (and such  a discussion  shouldnt  cover  the issue  of affordability as that 
needs to be dealt with first). 
Ref: DRN96106173The argument is about what method of communication should  be used to deal with the 
remaining affordability questions and to clarify any points  that arise  from the income and 
spending form. Mr and Mrs L say that they could call Chelsea to hear the question and then 
email their response,  which Chelsea could then encrypt. Chelsea says that this isnt 
practical. Mr and Mrs L have also asked how those with hearing  impairment  would be dealt 
with, but technology exists to enable such persons to discuss  matters over the phone, so this 
point doesnt really help Mr and Mrs L.
Having considered what both parties  have to say, including  the many  adjustments  now 
offered by Chelsea (such as one member of staff dealing  with everything,  breaks in the call if 
necessary, access to a branch during the call, presence of a third party), I think  that its fair 
and reasonable for the initial income and spending  information to be given in writing but 
questions that arise from that financial information  provided by Mr and Mrs L should be dealt 
with over the phone  by Chelsea, together with the advice about the new product.  This takes  
into account the fact that Mrs L has historically (and after the IVA has been put in place) 
been able to deal with these matters on the phone, that no substantial  reason has been 
given why Mr L cant speak to Chelsea,  that theres  no evidence  about the severity of the 
anxiety and depression that Mrs L says that she will suffer, and that the most  difficult  
information will be given in writing;  it also allows proper communication  to take place to 
ensure that Mr and Mrs L fully understand the proposed change to their mortgage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Yorkshire Building Society should allow 
Mr and Mrs L to provide initial information about their income and spending in writing, and to 
put into place  the adjustments it offered to the adjudicator in its response  to his view when  
then progressing the matter over the telephone. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject my 
decision before  5 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9610617