K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc granted his applications for personal  loans which  
were not affordable.
background
Mr I says he applied for loans from HSBC when he was suffering from depression and was 
gambling heavily.  He says he wasnt working  at the time but told the bank he was in 
employment. But the bank didnt ask for any proof of income. He was also upset that the 
bank sent him a letter about his mental health  problems and his financial difficulties  which 
was opened by his wife. He had specifically asked the bank not to write to him because she 
didnt know about  his problems.
HSBC said Mr I falsified his applications.  But itd checked his file and could confirm  he was 
working and he was getting a sufficient income . And both his personal  and his business 
accounts were running in a healthy  position. It said Mr I didnt tell it about his health 
problems until July 2018. But it was aware  of his financial  difficulties before then. Its 
Collections team had helped him with plans and it hasnt charged him any interest or applied 
any charges since 4 March 2016. It said it hadnt done anything  wrong.  But it accepted  it 
shouldnt have sent him a letter which was subsequently opened by his wife and it offered 
£100 compensation.
The adjudicator could see that HSBC  had granted four loans  between  13 June 2015  and 24 
November 2015,  each one refinanced the previous one. And three of the loans were 
refinanced before the first payment was made  on the previous one. He concluded that, while 
its not up to this Service to tell HSBC what lending criteria it should be using, he didnt think 
the checks itd made were  proportionate to the size of lending. And that additional evidence  
shouldve been  obtained to check Mr Is income.  So he thought  interest and charges should 
be refunded from June 2015.
HSBC said it didnt  agree it shouldve asked  for evidence of income. And it said if it was 
unhappy  with the salary verification it would have been referred for an underwriters  
decision.  It wouldve been at that stage it wouldve asked for evidence  of salary. It said Mr I 
had misled the bank.  And it said it wasnt logical to refund interest back to the first loan. 
Mr I didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusion  because he wanted HSBC to write off the 
full debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
All Mr Is loan applications were made in branch and so there was an opportunity  for HSBC 
to ask fair and reasonable questions  about  his applications.
Ref: DRN92587532When he applied for a loan of £2,600  on 13 June 2015 his account  had been in constant 
overdraft for a number  of months. The only regular income was from two forms of benefits. 
There isnt any evidence  of a regular salary coming  into this account.  There also appears to 
be a change in the pattern of Mr Is spending over the previous few weeks. There  were a 
number of cash withdrawals and cash deposits.  And from 3 June 2015  to 12 June 2015  his 
overdraft increased from £95.44 to £1,245.51. 
Whilst I appreciate that a reliance on benefit  payments  is not a ground  for refusing a loan 
application, I think that the history  of Mr Is current account meant that HSBC  shouldve 
asked for proof of the income of £12,500  he declared on his application form. It said Mr I was 
getting a sufficient income and that both his personal and business accounts  were running 
satisfactorily at the time. I asked HSBC  for a copy of his business account  statements from 
this time but it wasnt able to supply them. 
In light of the unavailability of Mr Is business account statements and in light of the 
transaction history  on his current account  I cant be satisfied that HSBC reasonably 
assessed Mr Is income  and his ability to repay  this loan in a sustainable manner without 
incurring financial difficulty or experiencing adverse consequences.
Three months later Mr I applied for a loan of £4,390 to refinance  the previous one and said 
his income was £22,500. This was nearly  double the amount he quoted in the previous 
application. So I think HSBC shouldve asked for proof of this increase in his salary. 
The following  month, without making his initial repayment on that loan Mr I applied for 
another loan of £8,000  to refinance it. This time he quoted  his salary as £26,000. And the 
following month he applied for a loan of £13,050  with a salary of £24,000.  In light of these 
applications being made within a short period  of time and in light of the discrepancies  in the 
income Mr I declared I dont think HSBC reasonably assessed the affordability of these  
loans. And as Mr I made all four of his applications  in the same local branch  I think  it 
couldve done more  to do that.
And so I agree  with the adjudicator that HSBC should refund interest and any charges for 
the date of the first loan on 13 June 2013.
Mr I said he wanted the full debt written  off but he has had the benefit of the money. And he 
falsified the information in his applications.  So I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to 
ask HSBC to write off the full debt.  
Ref: DRN92587533my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this compliant.
To put matters right HSBC UK Bank  Plc must:
Refund all interest  and charges from the date of the first loan and the subsequent 
loans to the date of settlement.
Any charges  should be refunded with 8% simple interest from the date each charge 
was paid to the date of settlement *
Pay £100 compensation as previously offered.
*Income tax may be payable on the 8% interest  payment awarded. If HSBC UK Bank Plc 
deducts income tax from this interest,  it should  tell Mr I how much has been taken off. HSBC  
Bank UK Plc should give Mr I a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9258753