K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  sold 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland  plc (Halifax at the time) mis-sold 
them the policy. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland (BoS) throughout.
background
Mr and Mrs R were sold the policy  in 1997 when they applied for a mortgage.  The policy cost 
just over £12 per month  and it only covered Mr R.
Unhappy with BoSs answer to the complaint, Mr and Mrs R referred it to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at it and came to the view that the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
However, Mr and Mrs R disagreed with what our adjudicator had to say. So the complaint 
was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs R say they werent made aware  that the policy  was optional while BoS disagrees  
and says that Mr and Mrs R were likely to have been told that they didnt have to take the 
policy.
I dont doubt the honesty  of Mr and Mrs Rs recollection. But they havent told us much  more 
about what was said and/or  done at the time of sale. This isnt necessarily that surprising. 
After all, the policy was sold over 20 years ago. Yet, the difficulties associated  with the sort 
of timeframe involved in this complaint are something I have to consider when weighing up 
whats likely to have happened.
I accept that its possible  Mr and Mrs R werent  told in person by BoS that the policy was 
optional. But its also possible they were  told. I dont  know which  of these  scenarios  
represents what actually  happened because I wasnt part of the conversation  between  the 
parties. However, when  events are in dispute, I have to base my decision on what  I think is 
more likely to have  happened given the information available.
BoS has provided us with a copy of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage application form. On page 7 of 
the application theres a section on PPI. And in that section there are two options  to choose 
from when deciding whether to take the policy:  yes or no. As theres  a tick in the box next 
to yes, which is then followed by Mr Rs signature, Im satisfied that its more likely  
Mr and Mrs R agreed  to take the policy knowing  they didnt  have to  especially as Mr R also 
committed to this decision by signing for PPI on a separate Mortgage Repayments 
Insurance Application.
Ref: DRN95562702BoS says that the policy was recommended at the time  which  means it had to make  sure it 
was right for Mr R in light his circumstances  and, to some extent, those of Mrs R. And based 
on everything Ive seen, I think it was suitable overall. Mr R wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover in such a way as to render the recommendation 
unsuitable given  the nature of the financial commitment he and Mrs R were entering  into. 
I know Mr and Mrs R say there were some savings available. But as Ive alluded to above, 
they were taking on a significant and long-term  financial  commitment secured against their 
home. The mortgage repayments would  have been important repayments to maintain in the 
event Mr R found himself out of or unable to work.  And as the policy would have  helped  
them to keep up with their repayments  in that situation over a reasonable period of time 
instead of having to rely on the savings, which they could have used elsewhere, I think the 
policy would have been helpful.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mr and Mrs R clear  
information. So thats what Ive looked  at next.
Its possible the information given to Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable overall, Im not 
persuaded better information about the policy would have led them  to make a different 
decision and not take the cover as it looks like it would have been  useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9556270