K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (NBS) trading as Portman  Building  
Society mis-sold  them  a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with NBS in 1996. Around the same time they took out a 
PPI policy. The benefit of the policy was split 50/50  between Mr and Mrs S and wouldve 
covered their mortgage payments if they were unable to work due to accident or sickness or 
lost their jobs.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  should be upheld because the policy 
made it harder for Mrs S to bring  an unemployment claim because Mrs S was self-employed. 
She thought  if they had understood this they wouldnt have taken the policy.
NBS disagree. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
NBS say the policy was sold on a non-advised basis.  What  this means is that although NBS 
didnt have to check the suitability of the product for Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances it  was 
still under  a duty to provide Mr and Mrs S with information on PPI in a clear,  fair and non-
misleading way so they could make an informed choice about  whether or not they wanted  to 
take it. To make an informed choice Mr and Mrs S needed to understand the costs and 
benefits of PPI, as well as the main exclusions and limitations of the policy.
I can see from the NBS records and paperwork from the sale that Mrs S was self-employed 
at the time they took out the policy.  The policy terms say that in order  for a self-employed  
person to make a claim  they would have to provide satisfactory proof of notification to the 
Inland Revenue  of cessation  of trading  and submission  of closing accounts. 
I think this would make it harder for Mrs S to make  an unemployment claim than for an 
employed person.  I say this because an unemployment claim would be unsuccessful  unless  
Mrs Ss business completely ceased  trading. This would  require Mrs Ss business  to 
completely close down before she could make a claim  on the policy  rather  than Mrs S being 
able to claim if there was a temporary  lack of work.  
I think this policy term wouldve been  important to Mr and Mrs S, so NBS needed to make 
sure it was brought to their full attention  before they agreed to take the policy.
NBS say that the certificate of insurance  that was issued to Mr and Mrs S after the sale 
stated this, as well as telling them to read the document carefully and make  sure they knew 
what the policy did and did not cover. I think this tells me that NBS didnt  bring this policy 
term to Mrs Ss attention  and that they expected  Mr and Mrs S to discover this themselves. 
Ref: DRN95675412And I dont  think being expected to read a policy document to receive  information  on an 
important limitation in the policy after the sale is good enough.
So I dont  think that the limitation relating to the unemployment cover for self-employed 
people in the policy was made clear to Mr and Mrs S. I think  this would have mattered to 
them because it wouldve been  harder  for Mrs S to make a successful claim for 
unemployment. And I dont think theyd have  taken the PPI if this was made clearer.
Because of this I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
what NBS  should do to put things  right
NBS should put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and NBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  NBS can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires NBS to take off tax from this interest.  NBS must give Mr 
and Mrs S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society and direct it pays the fair compensation  outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9567541