K820x#14Complaint
Mr R is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank  Plc blocked access to his account and removed the 
available funds from it. Hes also unhappy that a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System 
(CIFAS) marker was recorded against his name. 
Background
Mr R has been a HSBC  customer  since 29 May 2018. He opened  a basic  bank account on 8 
November 2018.  
On 20 November 2018, £150,000 was credited to his basic bank account from a third party  
bank - Ill refer to this bank as Bank  A. 
The following  debit transactions were made out of the account following the credit of 
£150,000:
25 November 2018 £3,000 (transfer)
26 November 2018 £25,000 (transfer)
26 November 2018 £3,300 (card purchase)
26 November 2018 £479 (card purchase)
26 November 2018 £1,201 (card purchase)
26 November 2018 £826.89 (card  purchase)
27 November 2018 £15,000 (transfer)
HSBC reviewed Mr Rs account and froze the remaining  balance  of £116,064.11; this was 
removed on 30 November  2018.
Mr R spoke with HSBC  to provide supporting  evidence to show he was entitled  to the money 
in his account. 
Unhappy with Mr Rs supporting evidence and explanation,  HSBC  took the decision to close 
his account which took effect  on 4 February 2019.  A CIFAS marker was also applied against  
Mr Rs name.
A representative on behalf  of Mr R referred  this complaint to our office.  
An investigator here looked into things  and didnt find that HSBC  had acted outside  of the 
terms and conditions applicable to Mr Rs account.  
She noted the bar for recording a CIFAS  marker is a high one. And HSBC must have good  
reason to believe they could have suffered a loss and/or they reasonably  believe they have 
grounds to press criminal charges as a result  of the activity on the account. This should  be 
more than just a suspicion or concern.  
She further noted  that HSBC must have carried out sufficient checks to satisfy this 
requirement. Given the impact a CIFAS  marker  can have on an individual,  the bank is 
expected to have a record of these checks so they can evidence  the decision they reached 
to record the CIFAS  marker. Our investigator  was satisfied  HSBC had good reason to record 
the CIFAS marker. 
Ref: DRN95645962Mr Rs representative disagreed with the outcome and requested an ombudsman  review the 
complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R hasnt disputed his account closure  so its for me to now decide whether HSBC  ought 
to return the funds they removed from his account and remove their adverse  report to CIFAS  
about him.
Im satisfied that HSBC  acted in line with their legal  and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed and subsequently blocked Mr Rs account. The terms and conditions  of Mr Rs 
account allows for this. 
Having looked  at the evidence, I dont find that HSBC failed to act properly to follow their 
own procedure when  they blocked the funds that remained in Mr Rs account. So I have no 
grounds to ask them to return  the funds to Mr R and Ill explain why. 
CIFAS marker
Ill firstly  consider the matter of the CIFAS  report. I must have regard for the investigators 
correct description of the basis on which  HSBC  can file a report  with CIFAS.
Ive considered the information HSBC provided  to support their actions. This includes their 
investigation and notes of their discussions  with Bank A. For confidentiality  reasons, Im 
unable to disclose  the content  of these specific investigations and notes.
I can see that HSBC spoke to Mr R to give him an opportunity to explain the circumstances 
surrounding the payment into his account. From looking  at the contact notes,  I can see that 
Mr R told HSBC the payment was a loan from an investor, who was also his friend. The 
notes go onto say the loan was a flexible business loan for 5 years and provided the loan 
agreement as evidence.  
Taken together, Mr Rs account contradicts HSBCs understanding of things from Bank A 
and other  sources.  So I dont think I can fairly  and reasonably  say that HSBC   didnt have 
sufficient justification  to make a report to the police  (and therefore  record a CIFAS entry); 
and I also dont consider that information  has subsequently come to light such  that I can 
retrospectively say that HSBC  acted incorrectly. 
Having looked  at the loan agreement myself,  it doesnt state anywhere that it was for 
business purposes. I also dont find the identification documents  provided by Mr R about the 
account holder  of Bank A persuasive. Thats because this information doesnt  evidence 
Mr Rs entitlement to the funds paid into his account, rather  it shows  that he holds 
information about the account holder of Bank A. 
Returning funds
Im aware Mr R would  like the £116,064.11 removed from his account to be returned to him. 
Based on HSBCs concerns, the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account allow them  to 
remove the funds  in question, without asking his permission. Although, I should note that 
Ref: DRN95645963HSBC told Mr R they were removing the funds and invited him to submit  further evidence. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think HSBC  gave Mr R sufficient  opportunity  to evidence his 
entitlement to the funds paid into his account  and hes not been able to do this to HSBCs  
satisfaction. Ive not seen  anything to suggest  HSBC  acted outside what theyre entitled to 
do, or unreasonably,  by removing the available funds in Mr Rs account.  
To be clear, in making  this decision, Im not seeking  to suggest I understand exactly what 
the position is between Mr R and the person  who sent the funds to him. Im not suggesting  
that I can be certain at all that Mr R has been involved in any wrong doing. But the decision 
for me to make was about whether  I could say that the bank wasnt entitled to act as it did, 
with their CIFAS report  and removal of the funds from Mr Rs account;  based on the 
information available to them. I dont consider HSBCs current potion  to be unsustainable.  
In light of everything, I dont require HSBC to alter or remove the report  they made to CIFAS 
or return any funds to Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9564596