K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about the way their secured loan account with OneSavings  Bank 
Plc has been administered. They think charges were unfairly added to the account and 
they were unhappy  to be told a balance of around £3,200 would be outstanding at the end 
of the term, although  the loan has now been  paid off.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a secured loan in February 2008. The original provider of the 
loan transferred it to OneSavings Bank  Plc (OSB) on 6 November 2015.
The loan was secured as a second charge on Mr and Mrs Ts house.  They  borrowed
£33,750.00 over a term of 12 years. At first interest  was charged at 9.25% although it 
increased later. The initial  original contractual monthly payment was £388.80. This 
changed to £414 in around February  2009 and from April 2016 Mr and Mrs T were  paying 
£444 a month.
Mr and Mrs T contacted OSB in December 2017 about paying off their loan. Theyre  
concerned OSB told them theyd need to pay not only the balance of the loan, but 
also around £3,200 more  to clear their debt by the end of the term.
When the debt was transferred to OSB, the original  provider  had added  charges of around
£1,500 plus interest.  Mr and Mrs T think the charges on their account  are excessive and 
unfair. And they say they werent given a breakdown  of the charges. They  were  only told 
theyd need to increase their monthly  payments to around £503 to repay the loan, 
charges and interest by the end of the term.
OSB didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint so they brought it to this service. I recently 
issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint including information GE Moneys  
been able to provide.
Before I set out my provisional findings its important to explain what I can and cant  look 
in respect of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
limits to what were  able to consider
Were only able to consider complaints about businesses  and activities that are covered 
by our rules.
When Mr and Mrs T took out the loan in 2008,  the original provider came under  our 
jurisdiction where a complaint was about  a credit agreement that was regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. So we could  look at complaints  about  the provider, but 
only where the complaint related to a credit agreement that was regulated by the Act.
Ref: DRN90487352Until 1 April 2014 the original provider was in our consumer credit  jurisdiction only. It then 
became subject to our compulsory jurisdiction.  From this date onwards, we could 
consider complaints about any of its activities covered by our rules.
Since Mr and Mrs Ts loan was more than £25,000 it wasnt  regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. So we cant look at any part of their complaint thats  about  
things that happened while the original provider was under our consumer credit 
jurisdiction.
We can look at Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about  what happened from the date when the 
original provider came under our compulsory jurisdiction, so from 1 April 2014 onwards  
until the loan was transferred to OSB  on 6 November 2015.
OSB has been  under our compulsory jurisdiction throughout  the time its owned
Mr and Mrs Ts loan.  So we can consider the complaint against OSB  from 6 November 
2015 onwards.
So, in summary,  were  able to look at the actions of either the original  provider or OSB from
1 April 2014 onwards.
events before 1 April 2014
Although I cant investigate and make  findings  about  things that happened before 1 April
2014, I think the way Mr and Mrs Ts account  was conducted throughout is relevant 
to understanding  the things I can consider.
I understand that, unfortunately,  due to illness Mr and Mrs T had some  financial difficulties 
and missed some payments from 2009 onwards. The original  provider wrote  to Mr and Mrs 
T about  the arrears  many times before 1 April 2014.  It added contractual charges of around
£945 for the correspondence and other  administrative  work  it carried  out when direct 
debits were returned unpaid and when  the account  was in arrears.
The arrears,  interest, charges and interest on charges were added  to the total. So the 
balance of the loan was higher than scheduled.  This meant  the loan balance didnt 
reduce as quickly as it wouldve done  if monthly  payments  had been  made  on time and in 
full.
The original provider assessed Mr and Mrs Ts income and expenditure a number of times 
to see what they could afford to pay towards the arrears. There  was very little income 
available after normal expenditure had been taken  into account. But the original provider 
agreed some payment plans which meant Mr and Mrs T avoided some  of the administration 
charges that they wouldve otherwise had to pay.
Regular annual statements were  sent to Mr and Mrs T both before and after 1 April 2014.  
The charges  added  to their account were  clearly set out in the transactions  history.  The 
statements also said:
If you incur fees and charges these will be added  to your account with any 
associated interest. If these are not cleared they will be added to your balance,  be 
charged interest at the contractual  rate and collected via increased  monthly  
instalments to ensure  they are repaid within the remaining term. You have the 
Ref: DRN90487353option to pay these  in part or full if you are up to date with your monthly 
instalments. For your information  we enclose  a leaflet  setting  out all our fees and 
charges. Your statement  of account is printed on the following page(s).
The charges, interest and any amount  paid towards  them were shown separately on the 
statements. And the charges tariffs were set out in a leaflet that was sent with the 
statements.
I think Mr and Mrs T wouldve  reasonably understood from this that any fees and charges 
they incurred  would be added to the loan and interest would be charged  on the total sum 
unless they chose to pay the charges and any interest charged on them  separately.
By 31 March 2014 the balance of the loan was over £23,835, arrears were  £727, charges 
were £870  and interest on those charges was around £224.
events from 1 April 2014
The terms and conditions  of the credit agreement allow for charges to be added  when  the 
lender has had to carry out additional work  such as managing the account in arrears.
Mr and Mrs Ts account was in arrears from 1 April 2014 until around December 2016. 
During that time they incurred arrears  administration charges of around £570 and a field 
agent fee of £48.
Mr and Mrs T say they dont understand what the charges were for. Im satisfied
Mr and Mrs T wouldve received the annual statements and tariffs sent by the original  
providers which, as Ive mentioned, set out the charges clearly. They were also explained  in 
letters they received from the original providers. So I think  they had enough information to 
know theyd incurred charges and what they were for.
Between 1 April 2014 and 5 November 2015,  the original provider wrote to Mr and Mrs T 
many times as Ive said. The letters warned them about the consequences  of failing to pay 
and signposted  them to agencies that might be able to help them  with financial support. I 
think the original  provider was actively taking steps  to administer the account  and recover 
the arrears. So I think it was fair to add administration  charges to Mr and Mrs Ts account. 
And where  the original provider had agreed payments plans, no administration fees were 
charged which was reasonable.
The loan agreement  gave  the lender the power to increase monthly payments to pay off any 
arrears and charges  which Mr and Mrs T had incurred through being  behind with their 
payments. Although the lender doesnt have to increase monthly payments in this way, I can 
consider whether, in Mr and Mrs Ts case, it wouldve been  a fair thing to do.
The original  provider carried out an assessment of Mr and Mrs Ts income in January 
and March 2014. This showed Mr and Mrs T had around £30 left over after outgoings at 
that time.  Mr and Mrs T were able to make some ad hoc payments between  April 2014 
and November 2015 which reduced the balance of the account. But I dont think  it 
wouldve been possible  for them  also to have made any significant additional monthly 
payments to reduce  what they owed.
An income and expenditure assessment carried out in January 2015 showed Mr and Mrs 
T had significantly more disposable income  of around £650 a month  by then. I think the 
original provider couldve considered increasing  their monthly payments at this time. But
Ref: DRN90487354Mr and Mr T missed a payment later that year so on balance I dont think  it would 
have improved their position  if it had.
When OSB took over the loan from the original  provider there was a balance of around
£19,530. Arrears  stood at £257. And charges were around £2,000.  I think Mr and Mrs T 
wouldve known this from the statement the original  provider  sent them when the loan 
was transferred.
OSB didnt add any charges  to Mr and Mrs Ts account even though it also made many 
attempts to contact  them to discuss the arrears and wrote to them  about  missed 
payments on their account.
OSB wrote to Mr and Mrs T telling them it intended  to increase their monthly direct debit 
payments by £30 to £444 a month  from June  2016. As Ive mentioned,  the credit 
agreement gave the lender the power  to do this but I think  it was fair for OSB  to give Mr and 
Mrs T the chance to discuss this before the payments went up. Since Mr and Mrs T didnt 
object, OSB increased the payments  from June  2016. This led to the arrears being  cleared 
and the balance of the account reduced  by the time Mr and Mrs T approached OSB  about 
paying off the loan in December 2017.
OSB hadnt been able to get up to date income and expenditure details from Mr and Mrs T. 
Its possible they wouldve agreed  to pay more to reduce the balance  further.  But Mr and 
Mrs T didnt contact OSB when asked  to. So I think OSB behaved  reasonably in increasing  
the payments  by enough to clear the arrears and start reducing the balance.  If it had 
increased them more  without knowing what Mr and Mrs T could afford, this couldve created 
financial difficulties for Mr and Mrs T.
In around December 2017 Mr and Mrs T asked about paying off their loan. I think  OSBs 
explanation about what they owed confused Mr and Mrs T. It broke down what  theyd 
need to pay between the amount theyd originally borrowed and the charges theyd 
incurred. So Mr and Mrs T thought theyd have  to pay around £3,200 more than they were 
expecting.
I dont think the annual statements OSB sent to Mr and Mrs T set out clearly the total 
amount owed and, separately,  the arrears and unpaid charges. Ive mentioned I think Mr 
and Mrs T wouldve understood  from information  the original provider had given them  that 
charges and interest on them  were added to the overall balance.  The account continued to 
operate in this way under  OSB. So I think Mr and Mrs T wouldve known from earlier  
information and the OSB  statements they still had unpaid charges and that its OSBs 
explanation in December 2017,  which confused  them.
But before  Mr and Mrs T brought  their complaint to this service I think  OSB explained 
clearly to Mr and Mrs T in its final response letter what theyd owe for charges and interest  
would only amount to around £3,200 if they didnt take steps to pay the charges off sooner. 
And it said that to pay them off as well as the balance of the original borrowing by the end of 
the term would mean  increasing their monthly  payment from what they were paying,  £444, 
to around £503  a month. This was an increase of £59. Ive explained why I think it was 
reasonable for OSB  to increase the monthly  payments  to £444 and not more. And I 
understand Mr and Mrs T paid the loan off in around  May 2018. So I dont think the
confusion in December  2017 affected their financial position.
Ref: DRN90487355In summary, I dont think  the charges Im able to consider have been added to Mr and Mrs 
Ts account  unfairly.  I can understand  Mr and Mrs T were concerned if they thought  they 
owed £3,200 they werent expecting to pay. But I think OSB explained things clearly to them 
before they brought their complaint to this service. So, bearing  all the circumstances in 
mind, I dont intend  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
developments
Neither Mr and Mrs T nor OSB has made any comments  on my provisional decision so I see 
no reason to change  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9048735