K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about the sale of a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage 
in 2006. The monthly cost of the policy was £44.55,  and it provided a monthly benefit of 
£750 in the event of a successful claim, if Mr and Mrs H were  unable to work  because  of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy was half price for the first 12 months.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to HSBC that they had been mis-sold PPI. HSBC investigated 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  and thought  the PPI hadnt been mis-sold.  But it offered to 
compensate Mr and Mrs H for the level of unfair commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  it received. 
HSBC offered compensation of £921.63.  This was made up of £683.58  for the excess 
commission that Mr and Mrs H were  charged on the PPI premiums and £238.05 (after tax) to 
compensate them for being out of pocket of this money.
Unhappy with HSBCs answer,  Mr and Mrs H referred  the matter  to our service.  
Mr and Mrs H remained of the opinion  PPI was mis-sold and had some  concerns about 
HSBCs commission  offer.
More than one of our adjudicators have looked  at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Recently our 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  as they didnt think  the policy was mis-sold. And as
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
 which  it didnt tell Mr and Mrs H about,  HSBCs offer to pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI was fair.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion and remained of the opinion that the 
PPI policy  was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs H also remained  unhappy  as HSBC  hadnt  explained how the commission 
compensation had been  worked out  and it had only been  explained by our adjudicator. 
Mr and Mrs H also questioned whether they could be sure that the amount HSBC says it 
received in commission was correct.
 
As Mr and Mrs Hs complaint hasnt been  resolved, it has been passed  to me for a final 
decision. Both parties have made  their final submissions for my consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
I will look at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in two parts. 
Ref: DRN91016612First, I will consider whether the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Second, whether HSBCs  offer of compensation for the unfair level of commission and profit 
share it received,  is fair.
the sale of the PPI policy in 2006
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the sale of the PPI policy. Ill 
explain why.
The mortgage and PPI were applied for in branch with an adviser.
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt really have a choice about taking the PPI and consider that 
they had to take it out in order  to get the mortgage.
Having reviewed the paperwork, I cant see that the PPI was a condition  of obtaining the 
borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs H had to complete and sign a separate Mortgage Repayment Protector 
application (PPI) form. 
And within the mortgage offer document that Mr and Mrs H have signed, it states Optional 
Insurance  Mortgage Repayment  Protection. If the PPI had been  compulsory,  I dont think 
the wording would have been  set out in this way. The wording indicates  that it is an optional 
product. 
So from the information provided I think HSBC  made it clear  that Mr and Mrs H didnt  have to 
take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out. 
I have also looked  at Mr and Mrs Hs concern  that they felt pressured by the adviser and 
consider that they had to take it out in order to get the mortgage.
Its hard to know exactly what was said during the meeting.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H 
have tried to provide the best recollection  they have. And I would like to assure them  that I 
have taken their comments into consideration. But I have  to be persuaded that it was more  
likely than not that they were pressured into taking the policy.  As HSBC advised them to take 
out the policy, I think its just as likely  they were told they should take out the policy, rather 
than they had to. And looking at their circumstances,  I dont think that would have been 
unsuitable advice.  I havent seen enough  in this case to make  me to decide their version  of 
events is what more  likely happened. 
Overall, based on all the available evidence and taking  into account the paperwork Ive seen,  
I cant fairly say Mr and Mrs H werent given a real choice whether to take out the insurance.
As explained above, HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. And from the 
information Mr and Mrs H have given  us about their circumstances, it seems to have been 
right for them at the time.  
I can see that Mr and Mrs H were  eligible  for the policy and werent  affected  by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. 
Ref: DRN91016613Mr and Mrs H say they were both in full time employment and received some benefits from 
their respective employers if they were off work  sick, so they didnt need PPI.
But taking a mortgage is large,  long term financial commitment. And borrowers stand to lose 
their home if they dont  keep up with repayments.  The PPI would  have protected 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage for up to 12 months  per claim, if they were unable  to work due to 
an accident or sickness. And it would have paid out in addition to any work benefits,  
meaning they could  use their work  benefits or savings for any other priorities.  The policy  
would have also paid out for up to 12 months per claim if they lost their jobs which could 
have been a useful benefit  at what would be a difficult time. 
I note Mr and Mrs H have said they could have relied on family savings to meet  their 
mortgage repayments if they were  unable to work. But having the PPI meant that they 
wouldnt have had to use their savings. And while I dont doubt that family would have 
wanted to help, peoples circumstances can change, and they might not have been in a 
position to help when needed.
I also note that while  Mr and Mrs H had a life assurance policy  and an accident cover policy.  
Life assurance provided cover in the event of loss of life. And accident  cover would provide a 
set amount depending on the seriousness of the accident  such  as loss of limbs for 
example. So they these  types of policies are quite different to PPI. 
Given the above and after careful  consideration, I cant fairly say that the advisers 
recommendation for PPI was unsuitable  or unreasonable  in Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But Im satisfied  they likely chose to take it out - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. They werent  affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations 
that may have prevented them from claiming  under  the policy.  And it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
Mr and Mrs H had a concern that there  were  advised  the PPI was required to run alongside 
the mortgage. As our adjudicator explained, this was a standalone policy  which meant 
Mr and Mrs H paid a monthly amount and in the event of a successful claim  received the 
monthly benefit (£750).  And if Mr and Mrs H switched  mortgage providers, they could keep 
the PPI in force. But importantly, as per the policy terms,  the policy would only provide 
protection for a period where a mortgage  was in place. Once the mortgage ended,  with 
either HSBC  or a different  provider, the PPI cover would end. 
I dont know what was said at the point of the sale, but given the above, I dont think  the 
adviser was necessarily providing Mr and Mrs H incorrect information about the policy.
Mr and Mrs H also thought the policy would automatically end when  their mortgage was 
redeemed and were  unhappy to find out that this wasnt  the case.
As mentioned above, under the policy terms, the policy would only provide protection  for a 
period where  a mortgage is in place.  Once  the mortgage ended  the PPI cover would end. 
Mr and Mrs H, after their mortgage  had been  redeemed, received letters  from the insurer 
explaining firstly that it was unable to collect the premium and subsequently as the premium  
hadnt been received the policy was cancelled.  
Ref: DRN91016614It seems  to me that the cover had indeed ended  in line with the policy  terms stating the 
cover would end when the mortgage was redeemed. And it seems  this was done at the 
request of HSBC. And the insurer,  because  it was a standalone policy, contacted  
Mr and Mrs H to see if they wanted to continue with cover. 
While I cant comment  on the insurers actions, it seems as the mortgage  was redeemed, the 
insurer wasnt to know whether Mr and Mrs H had switched provider and possibly wanted to 
continue with cover or not. And its letters  were  seeking confirmation of what  Mr and Mrs H 
wanted to do. I dont  think this is necessarily HSBCs fault. I do accept the overall 
communication could  have been  clearer. But that said, Mr and Mrs H didnt pay premiums  
for the PPI policy as the mortgage was no longer in place - overall, they havent lost out. But 
as I said, I can certainly understand why Mr and Mrs H were unhappy and wanted this 
commented on.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said - including  what they have  said about 
their circumstances at the time, not needing the PPI and their concerns about  what  they 
were told about the PPI. But, for the reasons Ive given above, these points dont change my 
decision.
Overall, I dont  think HSBC mis-sold  Mr and Mrs H PPI in 2006. So HSBC doesnt  need to 
refund everything  Mr and Mrs H paid for PPI.
what has HSBC offered?
HSBC has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because HSBC didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HSBC has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
I know that, after receiving HSBCs  offer of compensation, Mr and Mrs H were unsure how 
HSBC had worked it out and werent  sure whether they could trust what HSBC said its 
commission levels were.
I agree  that HSBCs letter isnt the clearest   and only at the very end of its letter  does it 
loosely break down the amount that it will be paying  Mr and Mrs H. But I would like to assure  
Mr and Mrs H that it has been worked  out correctly. 
I know Mr and Mrs H had a concern about the amount of commission  HSBC received and 
whether it is accurate. Again,  to reassure Mr and Mrs H, I would  like to explain that HSBC 
has provided evidence  about the levels of commission it received on its products over the 
years to this service. So the level of commission HSBC received  on Mr and Mrs Hs PPI 
policy is known. And this meant HSBC could work out what  it owed Mr and Mrs H in 
compensation.
Ref: DRN91016615 
HSBC worked out the compensation by looking at the PPI premium  Mr and Mrs H were 
charged each month and then working  out what the commission and profit  share rate was on 
each premium. And for any period Mr and Mrs H paid anything above 50% in commission  or 
profit share, HSBC  has refunded  this back. And HSBC has added  8% simple  interest (per 
year) on any amounts that Mr and Mrs H had overpaid, as compensation for them being out 
of pocket of that money.
Having looked  at its offer, HSBC has done what the FCAs  rules  it must follow tell it to do it 
includes everything I would expect to see. HSBC doesnt need to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9101661