K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y complains that MBNA Limited  put in place a repayment arrangement on her credit  
card account  which has negatively impacted her credit file. 
background
Mrs Y has held an MBNA credit  card for a number of years  and previously  transferred  the 
balance from her other credit cards  with different providers to this card, to take advantage of 
its promotional 0% interest rate. This interest rate meant that the repayments Mrs Y made  
went entirely towards reducing the capital balance  of the card, because MBNA didnt apply 
any interest during  the months  that this promotion applied.   
In April 2018, the promotional interest  rate expired  and changed to a higher rate, meaning  
that the minimum monthly payment increased.  Its Mrs Ys choice how much she wants  to 
pay, but in order to keep to the agreement,  she has to make at least this minimum amount 
each month. 
Mrs Y contacted MBNA  in May 2018,  following a letter  it sent her about  the impact  of only 
making the minimum payment each month. It also spoke of the help MBNA  could offer if she 
was struggling to make repayments due to financial difficulty  and gave contact details of 
independent debt advice organisations that she could  choose to get in touch with. 
Mrs Y asked MBNA for help, explaining that she was going  to struggle to make  the required  
payments now that the promotional rate had ended. So MBNA offered to assess  her income  
and expenditure  during the call, which Mrs Y agreed  to and gave details of her financial 
situation. 
Having gone through  this assessment, MBNA found  that Mrs Y couldnt afford the current  
minimum payment amount. It explained to her that, to meet  her contractual  monthly payment 
amount, she needed  to pay over £180 per month  at that time  but, based on the information 
shed provided,  she could only afford a maximum of £131 per month. 
MBNA said that this wasnt  enough to be eligible to set up a repayment arrangement that 
was based on the current terms of the agreement. In other words,  it found  her to be in 
financial difficulty and offered to temporarily  alter the terms by stopping interest being 
applied, along  with agreeing to waive all future  late, over-limit and returned payment 
charges. This meant that Mrs Y could pay what she could afford and at the same  time 
reduce the balance  despite not making  the contractual monthly payment amount. 
MBNA explained to Mrs Y that arrears  would build up, because the minimum amount was 
still due under the agreement but not being paid each month   however, it said it would allow 
this as a short-term relief  to help her. It said that this wouldnt prevent the possibility of a 
default being  applied at some point,  but that this would only happen after six months  of 
arrears. And in any case, it would give her at least 30 days notice if it intended to apply a 
default, so that she would have a chance  to bring  the account back  up to date and avoid one 
being applied.
Ref: DRN96912762Mrs Y agreed to set up the payment arrangement and began to make  a set payment of £131 
from May 2018, by monthly direct debit.  She also made payments in addition  to this, which 
she told MBNA that she paid in an attempt to ensure that the arrears didnt lead to a default. 
She was aware  that the additional payments didnt equate to the contractual  minimum 
monthly amount,  but wanted to reduce the amount of arrears.  MBNA explained that she 
didnt need to make additional payments, because the income and expenditure assessment  
demonstrated that these were  unaffordable. 
Mrs Y pointed out during calls with MBNA  that she wanted to protect  her credit score, 
because her mortgage was due to be paid off in late 2019  and she planned to take out new 
lending once  this happened  so it was important that her credit file wasnt  negatively  
impacted. 
Payments continued  until February 2019 and then MBNA sent Mrs Y a default notice. She 
paid the required  amount  to clear the arrears that had built up, so the default  was avoided.  
But shortly  afterwards she complained to MBNA,  because she said it was unfair to pressure 
her with a default  notice  when she had kept to the payment  arrangement. And shed realised  
at that time that her credit  file had been negatively impacted by making less than the 
required minimum amount each month  which she says MBNA  didnt warn her about, 
despite her making  it clear that protecting her credit file was always  her intention. This 
caused her considerable distress and shes not been approved for the lending that shed 
hoped for as a result  of the impact on her credit  file. 
MBNA didnt  uphold the complaint because  it said that it had offered to help Mrs Y on a 
concessionary basis  which,  due to its policy, could only go on for so long. It maintained that 
sending a default notice when it did was reasonable, given the arrears  on the account. And it 
said that it made clear  the impact on Mrs Ys credit file that these arrears would have, before 
she agreed to the repayment arrangement. 
Mrs Y remained unhappy,  so she brought the complaint to our service  and one of our 
investigators looked into it. The investigator found that MBNA gave Mrs Y appropriate  
information about the repayment arrangement and it offered her reasonable help  so she 
didnt recommend that MBNA do anything differently. 
Mrs Y disagreed with this, so the complaint  has been escalated  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not upheld  it. Ill 
explain why. 
I appreciate Mrs Ys frustration about  this payment arrangement with MBNA, because  its not 
in dispute that its had a negative impact on her credit  file. Ive listened  to the call recordings 
of conversations that took place and its apparent  that she wanted to continue with what she 
describes as a good credit worthiness score on her credit file. Its also reasonably  clear  that 
her intention was to maintain this credit card agreement until her mortgage was paid off, at 
which time more of her income would be free to go towards reducing her debts.  So, in effect, 
she wanted to just service the agreement until she was in a better  financial  position to take 
steps towards clearing  it. In light of this, Ive thought carefully about how MBNA  has dealt 
with her approaching  it for help.  
Ref: DRN96912763As the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out the obligations on 
businesses, such as MBNA, in relation to credit-related regulated  activities.  The     
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) forms part of the FCA Handbook and (amongst other 
things) CONC sets out that a business must  deal fairly with a customer  whos  in arrears. In 
other words, despite strict legal rights and responsibilities, creditors  ought  to treat struggling 
consumers positively and sympathetically.  
Mrs Y wasnt  in fact in arrears when  she contacted  MBNA in May 2018. At that point, she 
had been maintaining the monthly minimum payment and was therefore keeping to the 
agreement. Shes argued that she would  have endeavoured to have continued to meet her 
contractual obligations, had MBNA  not put this arrangement in place. 
But its not in dispute that the expiry  of the promotional 0% interest  rate put strain on Mrs Y 
to meet  her requirements under this agreement  indeed she approached MBNA for this 
reason. And once  it was aware  that she may be struggling financially, MBNA had a 
regulatory obligation not to put undue pressure  on Mrs Y to pay an unreasonably large 
amount that could  have had an adverse impact on her financial circumstances  so it was 
important to understand what  she could afford. 
MBNA took steps  to understand Mrs Ys financial situation by taking on board the relevant 
figures about her income and outgoings.  In my opinion, theres only so much that a lender 
can do to understand  a borrowers finances;  and an income and expenditure assessment is 
a common tool to calculate what money  is left, once all commitments and necessities have 
been paid. 
Mrs Y made MBNA aware of her debts outside of this credit card, which  she was committed 
to repaying each month. She pointed out that she had always  met her obligations for all of 
her accounts   but this was before the expiry of the promotional interest rate on this credit  
card resulting in the minimum payment amount increasing. 
In any event, based on the information  Mrs Y provided, she was unable  to maintain 
repayment to all of her financial commitments if she paid this increased monthly payment 
towards this account.  When asked  how she would  manage to do this, Mrs Y said that she 
would make cut backs  and find a way to make things  work. 
That strikes me as a relatively vague  and impracticable response. Whereas MBNA had to be 
alive to indications of financial  difficulty and take positive, specific steps to help. CONC 
provides that the inability of a borrower to meet repayments, or having  to borrow further to 
repay existing debts, is an indication of financial difficulty. In my judgment, the income and 
expenditure assessment and the discussion about Mrs Ys circumstances was a reasonable 
indication to MBNA that she was struggling financially  so it was fair to offer its assistance 
in the form of this payment arrangement. And, when Mrs Y subsequently called in to 
question the arrangement, MBNA  offered to complete  a second assessment, to check it had 
accurate details  but she said what she originally submitted was correct.  
In light of this, I find it was reasonable for MBNA  to act on the information Mrs Y provided  
and this information suggested  that without some help, she would otherwise struggle to pay 
what was needed.
Ref: DRN96912764The payment amount  was affordable as mentioned, but this arrangement  also meant that all 
of the £131 went entirely towards  clearing  this debt for Mrs Y  therefore, preventing the 
level of debt from rising due to interest and charges. So, by arranging for the interest rate to 
temporarily be set at 0%, it allowed Mrs Y an opportunity  to reduce the balance of the credit 
card faster than if the rate hadnt  been  altered. 
According to CONC, MBNA should have treated Mrs Y with forbearance and due 
consideration. In my opinion, by putting in place this arrangement  MBNA  acted  in line with 
these obligations.  It allowed  her reasonable time to repay the debt, as although temporary, 
MBNA agreed that the payment arrangement could continue for a number of months  to allow  
Mrs Y a reasonable  opportunity to reduce what she owed.
So, in the event of the interest rate returning to the normal, higher rate (once the repayment 
arrangement had ended), this would  mean  Mrs Ys minimum  monthly  payment amount  
would likely  be less than before the arrangement was put in place. Therefore, I find that 
MBNA treated Mrs Y fairly by attempting to relieve some of the strain on her finances. 
Turning to Mrs Ys concern that MBNA didnt make her aware  of the impact  on her credit file, 
MBNA ought  to have  given information that was clear, fair and not misleading (PRIN 2.1.1 of 
the FCA Handbook). It follows that giving appropriate information  is necessary to allow a 
consumer, such as Mrs Y, to make an informed  choice  about whether or not to enter into a 
payment arrangement such as this one. 
In calls both in May 2018 and July 2018,  MBNA  explained that, although it agreed to put in 
place this repayment arrangement, the £131 was not enough to meet the terms of the credit 
agreement of the account  so reference to this would be recorded on Mrs Ys credit  file. 
And following the income and expenditure assessment, MBNA provided  a summary of the 
key features of the arrangement in a letter dated  23 May 2018.  Enclosed with this letter  was 
an information sheet,  which  said Unfortunately, youve not met the terms of your credit  
agreement and currently your repayments  arent enough to prevent a default from registering 
with the credit reference agencies. It also pointed out the actions that MBNA may take in 
reference to applying a default,  along with the consequences that a default  would have on 
Mrs Ys ability to obtain credit in the future. 
Because of this, Im satisfied MBNA provided  information fairly and accurately that made the 
impact on Mrs Ys credit file reasonably clear. And it has reported  a true and accurate 
reflection of the payment  history of the account to credit reference agencies, as its required 
to. 
In any event, no default was applied to Mrs Ys credit file because  she cleared the arrears 
upon receiving  the default  notice MBNA sent. The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  
sets out guidance for businesses to follow when intending to apply a default. According to 
this, a default may be applied after three  months of arrears and normally  by six months  of 
arrears. 
Therefore, its not unfair for a default  notice  to be sent after three consecutive months of 
arrears, as a final chance for the borrower  to bring  the account  back up to date. So, for the 
avoidance of doubt, although Mrs Y took action to prevent the default being applied,  I 
believe that MBNA didnt  act unreasonably  in sending the default notice when it did, because  
by February 2019,  the account  had been  in arrears  for over six consecutive months. 
Ref: DRN96912765In all the circumstances of the complaint,  its my judgment that MBNA has acted fairly and 
reasonably  so I dont  require it to do anything differently  for Mrs Y. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Matthew Belcher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9691276