K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  will not repay an overpayment  she made 
onto her credit card by the same method she used to make it.
background
Mrs G mistakenly  made the same  payment onto her Nationwide credit card twice.  Shes 
unhappy that it will not make the refund for the overpayment by bank transfer  which was the 
way she paid it the money. She complains she lost the use of her money  for 30 days. She 
wants compensation for the inconvenience  shes been  caused and for Nationwide to alter its 
procedures. 
Nationwide said in its final response that it didnt  have  the option  of paying back  the money 
to an external non Nationwide  account.  As Mrs G doesnt have  another  Nationwide  account  
it can only send her a cheque or it could be set against her spending  on the card.  Mrs G had 
also accepted  an offer of £40 compensation.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said   
Nationwide gave  Mrs G some incorrect information about not being entitled  to a full 
refund of the overpayment. Itd offered £40 compensation for this which  was fair. 
Nationwide gave  Mrs G three options for how the refund could be made. It could pay 
it into a Nationwide  account, send a cheque  or re-credit the amount  to a direct  debit  
account if one had been set up. Unfortunately none of these  options  was suitable for 
Mrs G. It also offered  to pay the money  into a family members  Nationwide  account  
but that also wasnt suitable. 
Nationwide offered Mrs G the only available options and correctly followed its 
procedure. That was reasonable.  The £12 late payment  fee is set out in the terms 
and conditions but it couldve explained it better to Mrs G. We cant tell Nationwide to 
change its procedures. Thats a matter for the regulator, The Financial Conduct 
Authority.
Nationwide has acted  fairly and reasonably. And he doesnt think it needs  to do 
anything more.
Mrs G remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  She says none of the 
offered methods of refund were practical  for her. Nationwide shouldve returned the money 
by using the same means it was paid  by paying  it into the bank  from which it had come.  
She couldve understood it objecting to paying it to another  bank  or person. Not why it 
wouldnt return it to the same bank from which it came.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN91211432I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.  
I understand Mrs Gs frustration. But the simple fact is Nationwide is entitled to determine  the 
methods it will use to refund overpayments.  Thats a matter  of it making a commercial  
decision in which we would not normally interfere.
It was unfortunate  that none  of the offered refund methods was convenient for Mrs G. But 
Nationwide applied its chosen refund policy correctly. 
Mrs G would like Nationwide to change its policy. But this service  isnt a regulator.  We cant 
fine or punish a business or require  it to change it practices and procedures. General  issues  
about how the insurance industry works are a matter  for the Financial  Conduct  Authority. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  Nationwide to 
do anything more or differently as Mrs G would like. Although  I recognise  her strength of 
feeling, I dont  see any reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9121143