K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about  the way their home  insurance claim for damage caused by an 
escape of water was handled by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
Mr and Mrs N made  a claim on their home insurance policy  at the beginning of July 2018.  
They had discovered that thered been a slow ongoing leak in their bathroom.  RSA accepted 
the claim and arranged for a surveyor to attend  to inspect the damage.  He came  a few days  
later. Early  on in the claim,  alternative accommodation was discussed. Mrs N needed access  
to a walk in shower and now that their bathroom  was out of action she would  be unable to 
use the one she had at home. 
RSA said it could place  them  in local hotels but they may need to move  between them from 
time to time. Serviced apartments were  also looked into but they were deemed  to be too far 
from Mr and Mrs Ns house. Mr and Mrs N said they had a caravan they could stay in and it 
was agreed with RSA that this is what they would do. RSA covered the cost of the nightly 
charge (between  £12-£14) by paying  them £20 a night. 
RSAs contractors visited the house at the end of July 2018  to assess  how to dry it out. 
Unfortunately the contractors lost the report theyd  compiled  due to an IT issue  so they had 
to re-visit a few days later and do it all over again. It was then necessary to arrange for some  
asbestos testing,  the results of which didnt come back until the end of August. 
Having already deferred a trip to accompany  their daughter for some  medical tests in 
another part of the country Mr and Mrs N didnt think they could do so again. They were then 
away for about two weeks and were reluctant to leave their key with the drying contractor. It 
was agreed the drying out would  start when they returned. Whilst they were  away, Mr and 
Mrs N contacted RSA to say they had some concerns  about  the work  methods of the drying  
contractor and they were  worried  it was causing the spread of mould and bacteria. So they 
said theyd prefer a different company to carry out the work. 
A second company inspected the property at the end of August 2018, it continued with the 
stripping out started by the first company and then proceeded  to dry the property.  The house 
was certified as dry in the middle of November.  
Mr and Mrs N had arranged for their own builders to carry out the repairs to their house  and 
RSA agreed to cash settle their claim based on the estimates provided by Mr and Mrs Ns 
builders. This was paid to Mr and Mrs N in November 2018.  In the end Mr and Mrs Ns 
builder didnt do the work because of a disagreement regarding  the scope and costing with 
the surveyor. So Mr N undertook to do it. Mr and Mrs N moved back  home around March  
2019. 
They then made  a complaint to RSA about  the way their claim had been handled. RSA 
looked into their concerns  and agreed  that certain  aspects  couldve been handled better. It 
agreed to pay them  compensation  of £350  for the shortcomings in the service theyd 
received. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt think the compensation amount was a fair reflection of the trouble  and 
upset theyd been caused by RSA so they complained to this service.  They  said that RSA 
had taken too long to dry it out; that the first contractor didnt follow  the correct process when 
Ref: DRN96640582carrying out the drying and stripping out work; that they had had to stay in their caravan far 
longer that was necessary; that the situation had caused them health problems and theyd 
had to keep chasing RSA to reimburse them for their accommodation costs. Mr and Mrs N 
said they thought that compensation of between £2,000 and £5,000 better  reflected the 
distress and inconvenience theyd been  caused. 
Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  He 
thought that the compensation offered by RSA was fair in all the circumstances so he didnt 
recommend that it pay anymore. Mr and Mrs N disagreed and asked for their complaint to be 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any upset it will cause to 
Mr and Mrs N, I dont think their complaint should be upheld. 
All home insurance  claims  attract a degree of distress and inconvenience. Thats to be 
accepted and this service  wouldnt  recommend compensation  was paid for the 
inconvenience of having to make  the claim in the first place. But where  an insurers  actions 
or words have made  an already situation worse  be that through  delays or poor claims 
handling  then we recommend compensation is paid. 
Here, RSA has accepted  that its claims handling  fell short of an acceptable standard and it 
agreed to pay compensation of £350  to Mr and Mrs N. So its my role to decide  whether that 
amount fairly and reasonably compensates Mr and Mrs N for the trouble and upset RSA 
caused them  above and beyond that normally associated with making a claim. I have to say 
that I think it has and that the payment is in line with this services general approach to 
compensation awards. Indeed, if this case had passed across  my desk without RSA having  
already offered £350 to Mr and Mrs N, its unlikely that I wouldve awarded anymore. 
I can see that it wasnt until about four months  after the claim was made that Mr and Mrs Ns 
home was dry. I think that length of time is longer than I wouldve expected. But I can see 
that some  of the delay was unavoidable  due to the need to carry out any asbestos testing 
and await the results and because  Mr and Mrs N were understandably away  supporting their 
daughter. And whilst the loss of another week as a result of an IT fault was also regrettable  I 
cant say that was intentional or careless.  There was also a delay when the first contractor 
was removed from the job at Mr and Mrs Ns request before the second contractor could 
start. Once  the second contractor had finished stripping out in September  2018, I can see 
the drying out then took about four weeks to complete. 
RSA accepts that the claim  didnt proceed as quickly as it wouldve liked and I agree. And it 
took this into account  when  deciding  what compensation  it should pay. 
I note that Mr and Mrs N raised some concerns with RSA about the safety  risk to their home 
posed by the work methods of the first contractor. RSA accepted  this and agreed to replace 
the contractor. That seems reasonable to me. And I know that Mr and Mrs N were worried  
that their  and their familys   health might have been affected by how the work was being 
done, but Ive seen  no evidence that it did. And I cant  ask RSA to compensate  them for 
something that didnt  happen. 
With regard to alternative accommodation,  I agree  that spending 8 months living  in a 
caravan wouldve been uncomfortable and disruptive. But I can see from RSAs file that 
Ref: DRN96640583alternative accommodation was discussed  at the very outset of the claim and that Mr and 
Mrs N said they had a caravan  they could stay in so RSA agreed  to cover their site fees and 
some extra on top. Mrs N needed a walk-in shower and all that RSA could find in their 
locality was hotel accommodation. Given the claim was going to take a while,  RSA said that 
it was likely they would have to move around hotels regularly. Also Mr and Mrs N have a dog 
so hotel accommodation wasnt the most suitable. 
RSA also looked  at trying to find a service apartment but the nearest it could locate was over 
10 miles away. And I can see that Mr and Mrs N were contacted by a letting agent at one 
point who was struggling to find suitable local accommodation. So the evidence shows  that 
suitable alternative accommodation  was sought but was difficult to find and that, in any 
event, Mr and Mrs N preferred to stay in their caravan. I know that in response to our 
investigators view, Mr and Mrs N said that they only agreed to stay in the caravan initially 
whilst RSA found suitable accommodation but unfortunately, Ive not seen any evidence that 
that was what was agreed. 
There are plenty of phone calls logged about  payment  being  required for the site fees but no 
mention by Mr and Mrs N at any point that they were  expecting  to be accommodated 
differently. RSA paid for the site fees well into 2019  despite cash settling Mr and Mrs Ns 
claim (and discharging its liability) in mid-November  2018. I can see that RSA continued to 
pay the site fees on the basis that if it had appointed  contractors to carry out the 
reinstatement works,  none were available until January  2019.  Mr and Mrs N have 
complained about the need to repeatedly  chase  RSA to get the site fees reimbursed but I 
can see from the file that RSA paid them in two week intervals  and longer  at times. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect it to pay out for weeks in advance  when it wasnt  sure how  
long Mr and Mrs N may need to remain in the caravan. So I think  RSA treated Mr and Mrs N 
reasonably in this respect and I wont be asking it do any more. 
RSA gave Mr and Mrs N the option  to have  its contractors  do the reinstatement  works  or to 
cash settle the claim. I can see that Mr and Mrs N preferred to cash  settle it and that RSA 
did so based on the estimates they provided. Mr and Mrs N said that in the end their 
contractor didnt complete  the work  because  thered  been a misunderstanding between  him 
and RSA about what the repairs  would  cost. I appreciate that this would be upsetting  but in 
order to find that RSA was in some way at fault for this then I would need  to see some  
evidence (perhaps  from their contractor himself) to show that this is the case.  Unfortunately  
Ive not seen any such evidence. 
I understand that RSA had said its contractors couldnt start work before January 2019 and 
that Mr and Mrs N were  unable to find a suitable replacement  contractor  of their own to start 
work before then either.  So Mr N undertook to do the repairs. But any delays after RSA cash  
settled Mr and Mrs Ns claim arent RSAs responsibility. 
RSA offered to pay Mr and Mrs N compensation of £350 for the delays associated with 
drying and stripping out their house and for the miscommunication between it and them that 
occurred at times. On balance, taking all of the above into account, I think  thats a fair and 
reasonable amount for it to pay. RSA wasnt responsible for all of the delays associated  with 
the drying out and I think it tried to find suitable alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs N 
before accepting that they were happy  to stay in their caravan and to pay their site fees.  
Of course I appreciate that the whole episode was stressful and disruptive for Mr and Mrs N 
and Im sorry for them  that it was. But I can only award compensation for the extra  trouble 
Ref: DRN96640584and upset caused by RSA and, as Ive explained above, for that, I think that £350 fairly and 
reasonably compensates  them so I wont be asking it to do any more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9664058