K820x#14complaint
Miss V complains  that she was mis-sold an HSBC  Plus packaged  bank account  (PBA) in 
October 2006 by HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC). She says she was told that the account  was 
necessary for her to keep  her overdraft and to build  a good credit score, and that she had no 
idea about the benefits.
background
Miss V opened a basic bank account with HSBC in September  2005,  which  then became a 
fee free standard current account in December 2005. At some  point  around  that time,  Miss V 
applied, and was approved, for an overdraft.
In October  2006 Miss V says she went into a branch in order  to apply for a credit  card,  and 
ended up being  sold the PBA as well. Judging from the records  HSBC  has been able to 
provide this service,  it looks  like Miss V was given  the upgraded account  for 2 or 3 months  at 
no charge, after which she was initially paying  £9.95  per month for it. Its key benefits at that 
time were a range of banking  ones, notably lower  interest rates  on various forms of lending, 
and higher interest rates on savings accounts. In addition,  it provided worldwide travel 
insurance. Since that time, HSBC  has made  various changes  to its range of PBAs, including  
adding benefits,  changing the account  names, and increasing the fees.
Miss V initially said she was told she needed the PBA in order to have an overdraft, a credit 
card, and to overall improve her credit  score.  She says she mentioned  to the HSBC advisor 
that she was hoping to apply for a mortgage in the following year or two, and was also told it 
would help with that. She later said she was told that she would have to agree to the PBA to 
keep her existing overdraft, which she also says she was told on more than one occasion 
since, when she has asked about  downgrading her account to a free one.
Miss V has raised concerns about  later changes to the account,  and also about whether a 
fee waiver has been/should have been applied. To be clear, this decision cannot look at 
those issues, as HSBC  has not had the chance  to investigate Miss Vs concerns itself. 
Miss V has also not previously raised  the issue of being lied to by HSBC  staff when she has 
tried to downgrade her account,  or being  given the wrong information when she started  this 
complaint. I can appreciate that she feels frustrated, but she will need to give HSBC full 
details of her later concerns so it can look into them separately.
I will only be considering whether the HSBC Plus PBA was mis-sold to her in October 2006. 
Our adjudicator previously  considered  this, and didnt think that HSBC had mis-sold the 
account. Miss V doesnt accept that and has asked an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to thinking  
about the sale of PBAs  on our website,  and Ive followed  this approach  when considering 
Miss Vs case. To uphold  her complaint, Id need  to decide that HSBC did something wrong, 
and that the mistake has caused Miss V to lose out. I dont think the evidence  does  show  
that, so Im not upholding  her complaint, and Ill explain why.
Did HSBC mislead Miss V into thinking she needed  to have the PBA in order  to borrow  
money and improve  her credit score?
Ref: DRN95593192Its clear that Miss V feels very strongly  about  this point, which  Ive thought  about  carefully.  
She has explained that although she went into the branch to apply for a credit card, she was 
first sold the PBA, and then her credit card application was approved.  She says the advisor 
lied and told her shed  been approved because she had a PBA.
I accept that this is possible, and also that Miss V is telling me what  she genuinely now 
remembers. But this happened  nearly  13 years ago, and I need to consider all the evidence 
Ive got in the round to decide what I think is most likely to have been the case.
Miss Vs testimony on this point has changed. For example, she first said she was told shed 
have to have the PBA to get an overdraft. Then once she learned she already had an 
overdraft at this point with her free account, she said that she was told shed have to have 
the PBA to keep that overdraft. Of course, memories  fade over the years, and its not 
surprising if some details  become  confused.  But the only evidence I have to show that the 
HSBC advisor lied to Miss V is Miss Vs testimony.  And I dont think that testimony is reliable 
enough to lead me to conclude thats  whats  likely to have happened.
Miss V has told us that she needed  to have  an overdraft facility, but hasnt explained why 
she would  have believed  that the one she already had would  have been  taken away from 
her unless she agreed to the PBA. She says she didnt understand at the time how credit 
scores are built and improved. But has also said that a friend told her shed need a credit  
history, and so she should get a credit card. Not a PBA. I realise that she has said she 
trusted the bank advisor, and understand that. But overall her testimony doesnt persuade 
me it is most  likely that the HSBC advisor lied to her in order  to get her to agree to this 
account.
Was the account a reasonable  fit for Miss V and could she have found it useful?
HSBC says it didnt  recommend  the account  to Miss V, but only gave her information about it 
so she could decide on her own if it was right for her or not. Miss V says it did recommend 
the account to her, and I can see why she feels that way. It doesnt  make any difference  to 
my decision,  so Ive considered this sale along  the lines of HSBC  having given a 
recommendation to Miss V.
I can see that Miss V benefited from the preferential interest rates on her overdraft and her 
savings account.  She says that at the time she agreed to the PBA she was also hoping to be 
in a position to apply  for a mortgage, which could have also been at a lower interest rate 
because of the PBA. So that too would have been attractive to her. Overall, the banking 
benefits look to have been  a good fit for her.
The only insurance  product that the PBA came  with at the time was travel insurance. In her 
original complaint to HSBC, Miss V said that she had travelled abroad  in 2005, but had not 
done so since.  In her complaint to us she then said that she never travelled. However,  HSBC  
has been able to provide  bank statements showing overseas cash withdrawals in 2010 and 
2011, and payments to airlines.  So overall  the evidence suggests that Miss V could have  
had some use for the travel insurance. She says she wasnt  told about the cover.  But if that 
is true, then HSBC should have told her about it, and I cant see why it doing  that would have 
put her off agreeing to the PBA. She hasnt  told us that she lost out because  she didnt know 
she had the cover (e.g. by not making a claim when she needed  to). So even if HSBC did do 
something wrong here, I dont think Miss V has actually lost out because of it.
Ref: DRN95593193It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint. Im sorry to bring Miss V bad news  
when she clearly feels strongly about her case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint, and HSBC doesnt need  to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9559319