K821x#15Complaint
Mx C, who ran a partnership with Mrs C, complains that the National Farmers Union Mutual
Insurance Society Limited  mis-sold them legal expenses insurance in 2010  and mishandled
a request to amend the partnerships insurance  arrangements in 2014.
Background
Mx C ran a farm that produced and sold eggs, initially as a sole trader. Some  years ago,
they took out NFUMs  household insurance  product,  with a home worker extension to cover
their business activities. But by 2010,  the businesss turnover had outgrown the eligibility
criteria for the home worker extension. So, from then on, they insured  their business
activities separately from their home,  under NFUMs farm insurance  product. They  chose to
include commercial legal  expenses cover.  In 2014, Mrs C became a partner in the business.
In October  2014, Mx C contacted the NFUM agent  who managed  their insurance
arrangements to let him know that the structure of the business  was changing. They  said
that the partnership would  no longer be producing and selling eggs, and that these activities
would be taken over by a limited company,  of which Mx and Mrs C would both be directors.
They clarified that Mx and Mrs C (continuing to act as a partnership)  would own the land,
buildings, plant and machinery, and rent them, non-exclusively,  to the limited company for a
nominal amount. The limited company would own the birds and stock,  produce eggs and run
a newly  built farm shop,  which would  also be its registered address.
Mx C told the agent they wanted  to insure  the land, buildings, plant and machinery under the
household insurance policy, as part of a home  worker  extension, as they considered that the
rental income comfortably  met the eligibility criteria. They wanted the activities of the limited
company to be insured separately  under a new farm insurance policy. They felt this would be
the most  cost effective  arrangement.  They  offered to meet  the agent if anything  was unclear,
noting the emphasis in NFUMs advertising  campaigns on face to face contact.
Two weeks later, and close  to the date these changes were to take effect, Mx C chased the
agent as they hadnt  had a response. In reply, the agent conceded he was still trying to get
his head round the request, but reassured  Mx C that cover would be in force. He said he
didnt think he could  go down the extension  to home route.
Mx C replied  with a more  detailed explanation  of their requirements, and said they
understood that their existing policies would  need to be terminated, and new policies  set up.
The agent  said new policies  would  be set up before the business changes  came into effect,
and that hed confirm the policy numbers, but the paperwork might not be ready until later.
The agent  told NFUMs underwriters the partnership was changing to a limited company.
He said the partnerships assets should be covered under the farm insurance  policy  (which
would now be held by the limited company),  with Mx and Mrs C noted as interested  parties.
He promised to obtain a signed fact find the following week,  but said the changes needed to
start from 1 November 2014.  He proposed no changes  to the household insurance policy.
Ref: DRN93143732It appeared from comments made later by the agent that he didnt think a home worker
extension would be possible due to the turnover of the egg production  and sales business.
Mx C argued that this was irrelevant as those  activities would be insured separately under
the limited companys policy.  All the partnership would be doing  was renting assets it owned,
non-exclusively, to the limited company. So, the relevant  turnover was the rental income.
After the business  changes  had taken effect,  Mx C was sent confirmation of the changes to
the farm insurance policy and asked to sign a fact find. They  were alarmed to discover  that
NFUM had simply updated  the farm insurance policy  to show  the limited  company as the
policyholder, which  wasnt what theyd asked for. The limited companys address had also
been noted as their home address, not the address of the new farm shop.
Mx C got back in touch  with the agent  as they were  concerned hed misunderstood  the
request and that the cover now in place was unsuitable. They  said it wasnt  appropriate to
simply update the partnerships  policy. The limited  company was a new entity  with a different
business model. They reaffirmed that they had wanted the assets  owned  by the partnership,
and the rental of them, to be insured under  the household insurance policy, as part of a
homeworker extension. At this point, the agent agreed to a meeting.
Subsequently, several changes had to be made  to the farm insurance policy to ensure it met
the limited companys (and partnerships) needs.  The agent maintained that it wouldnt be
possible to insure  the partnerships  assets under a home worker extension. Changes were
also made to the insurance arrangements for Mx and Mrs Cs tractor and motor car to reflect
changes in their use. Amended  paperwork was sent to Mx C in December 2014.
Mx C later had cause to make claims on the legal  expenses sections of their policies in
relation to a dispute with a regulatory authority. The outcome of these claims, and Mx Cs
subsequent complaints about them, led them to complain to us about the agents handling of
their request  to terminate  the partnerships policy, to start a new policy  for the limited
company and to add a homeworker extension to the household insurance policy.
In March 2020, I wrote to Mx C to explain that under the regulators rules,  Im only allowed to
consider a complaint if its brought by, or on behalf  of, an eligible complainant. I highlighted
that to be an eligible  complainant a person must  fall into one of seven  categories. The two
most relevant in Mx Cs case were consumers  and micro-enterprises.
I said the nature of Mx Cs complaint meant  they werent eligible to bring it as a consumer,
because they werent  acting  for purposes which were wholly or mainly outside of their trade,
business, craft or profession. So, they didnt  meet  the definition in the rules. Id therefore
considered whether there was a micro-enterprise that could bring  the complaint instead.
The rules  define  an enterprise as any person engaged in economic activity,  irrespective of
legal form, including, in particular, (a) self-employed persons and family businesses  engaged
in craft of other activities; and (b) partnerships or associations regularly engaged in an
economic activity. They set out that the enterprise  must have met this definition  when it
referred its complaint  to the business to be eligible to bring that complaint to our service.
I considered that Mx and Mrs C, acting as a partnership, met this definition.  Mx C clarified
that it remained engaged in economic activity (the rental of assets to the limited  company)
until the limited company  was dissolved in 2019.  And Mx Cs complaint points regarding  the
partnerships insurance arrangements  were  all referred to NFUM  prior to that date. So, I
concluded that it was eligible to bring those complaint points to our service.
Ref: DRN93143733I pointed out however that whilst Mx and Mrs C were also directors  of the limited company,
by its nature it had its own distinct legal  identity. Therefore, I felt that any complaint points
about the limited  companys insurance  arrangements needed to be considered separately
from the complaint  points  relating to the partnership.
I explained that the only complainant whod be eligible to bring those complaint points was
the limited company itself (represented by Mx and Mrs C). I noted that the limited  company
had been dissolved  in May 2019, and as such, no longer existed.  So there was now no
eligible complainant to pursue the complaint points concerning  NFUMs handling of the
limited companys insurance  arrangements.  I concluded that I didnt have jurisdiction  to
consider any complaint  points concerning its insurance arrangements.
I therefore concluded that I could only address the complaint points relating to the 
partnerships insurance arrangements.  In summary, those points were that:
NFUM failed to respond in a timely manner to Mx Cs request to end the 
partnerships farm insurance  policy and to insure the rental of its assets under 
a home  worker extension. By the time it became clear this request couldnt be 
met, theyd lost the chance to explore alternatives with other providers.
NFUM declined to meet to discuss the request, despite demonstrating 
confusion about it. And theyve never  provided details of what  exactly  the 
agent proposed  to its underwriters.
In consequence  of the above, NFUM didnt establish all of the relevant facts. 
This meant, for example, it made  decisions about the home worker extension 
based on the limited  companys turnover instead of the partnerships  turnover.
NFUM failed to act on instructions to terminate the partnerships policy, and 
instead transferred  it to the limited company, using the same  policy  number. 
This constitutes an unauthorised use of the partnerships data. 
In effecting the requested changes, NFUM failed to provide  the partnership  
with a demands and needs statement. 
By declining to meet with Mx C to discuss their complaints, NFUM failed to 
make reasonable adjustments to cater to their disability. 
The above involved multiple breaches of rules, regulations, legislation and 
codes of practice and the level of service provided ran contrary  to that which  
is offered in NFUMs advertising  campaigns.  
The partnership had also complained that, in 2010:
NFUM sold Mx C unsuitable legal  cover which didnt cover  issues  likely to be 
faced by a farm that produces and sells eggs (their primary business activity 
until 2014). The terms were misleading  regarding Mx Cs ability  to select their 
own solicitor. And it was unclear who provided the insurance.  If Mx C had 
more information  at the point  of sale they may have  chosen  to join the NFU 
(the union)s legal  assistance scheme  instead  (or as well). 
I also explained in my letter of March 2020 that the regulators  rules allow  the ombudsman  to 
dismiss a complaint where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been  
considered or excluded  under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless  material new 
evidence which the Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently 
become available to the complainant.)
Ref: DRN93143734I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 23 October 2020. I started by considering 
whether any of the subject matter had already been considered by our service.   
I highlighted  that, in a previous decision, an ombudsman had addressed  Mx Cs point that 
NFUM should have  terminated the partnerships  policy and set up a new one for the limited  
company. And that transferring the policy to the limited company instead  involved data 
protection breaches. Whilst she accepted that the policy shouldnt have been  transferred, 
she decided it hadnt caused Mx C any material disadvantage, financial or otherwise.
Mx C had highlighted that the ombudsman specified that she was only commenting on the
transfer from an administrative  perspective.  And separately, she specified  that she wasnt
considering the actions  of the agent.  So, theyd asked me to review  the agents role in the 
transfer from a customer service perspective. 
I clarified that I had reviewed the correspondence Mx C had with the agent about  the 
terminating the policy. But only as part of a wider review of the level of customer service  
provided by the agent in handling the requested changes  to the partnerships insurance 
arrangements. I hadnt revisited the impact  of the transfer itself.  
The ombudsman had also considered whether NFUM could have  offered  Mx and Mrs C a 
homeworker extension, ultimately accepting NFUMs explanation that they werent eligible. 
Mx C had noted that her decision referred to the limited companys, not the partnerships,
eligibility for the homeworker extension. So, they felt the complaint  theyd  made here was
different to that which was addressed in the previous decision. But I explained  that the rule 
applied to subject  matter which had previously been  considered.
In the ombudsmans provisional decision, shed referenced Mx Cs argument, repeated in 
this complaint, that NFUMs decision about whether to offer the homeworker extension 
should have been based on the partnerships turnover, which fell below the £10,000 limit in 
its eligibility criteria. And that the limited companys turnover,  given  it was a separate  legal 
entity, was irrelevant. Shed also referenced NFUMs position that the homeworker extension  
wasnt suitable for property rental. I recognised that Mx C remained unhappy with the 
ombudsmans findings on this. But I said I was satisfied its subject matter shed considered 
when reaching  her final decision.
I said Id reviewed the agents  actual handling  of the request for a homeworker extension as 
part of my wider review of the level of service  he provided. In particular, Id thought about the 
agents timeliness and Mx Cs argument that they lost the opportunity  to explore  alternative 
options with other insurers. But I said I wouldnt be revisiting whether NFUM would have 
agreed to the request had it been  presented based  on the partnerships turnover.
In addition, the ombudsman had considered Mx Cs argument  that by refusing to meet to
discuss their complaints following the events described above, NFUM failed to make
reasonable adjustments. Shed concluded  that NFUM hadnt acted unreasonably in declining
Mx Cs requests. So, I explained I wouldnt be addressing  that point any further either. I said 
Id considered the agents initial choice not to meet Mx C to discuss  the business  changes.  
I said I didnt consider that any material new evidence had been presented by Mx C in 
relation to these  points  that wasnt available to them previously. 
Ref: DRN93143735I confirmed that the remaining points in the list above were ones I should consider. Whilst 
the ombudsman  had included Mx Cs argument  that they were mis-sold  NFUMs  legal cover 
in a list of complaint points, shed later said she wouldnt address any issues about  the sale 
of the policy  in her decision  so that they could be considered separately. 
I then went on to set out my provisional  findings  on each of the remaining points:
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NFUM failed to respond  in a timely manner to Mx Cs request to end the partnerships  farm
insurance policy and to insure  the rental of its assets  under a home  worker  extension to their
household insurance policy. By the time it became clear that this request couldnt be met,
theyd lost the chance to explore alternatives with other providers
Its clear from the timeline that the request  wasnt handled promptly,  even though Mx C had
made the agent aware of the date of the impending changes  to the partnerships activities.
To briefly recap, Mx C first emailed  the agent  on 14 October 2014,  explaining  that the
changes would be effective from 1 November 2014. I think  this was sufficient notice, and I
also note that Mx C offered to visit the agent  in person to go through  the detail. The first time
the agent acknowledged the request was 29 October 2014, following Mx Cs email chaser.
By this time, there were  two working days left before  the changes came into effect,  and the
agent was due to be going  on leave until the following  Monday (3 November 2014).
In the agents  response, he was quite open about the fact that he was still trying to get his
head round the request.  So, its surprising that he hadnt sought any clarification from Mx C,
for example by accepting their offer of a face to face meeting.  It was the first time he raised
the possibility  that NFUM wouldnt be able to provide a homeworker extension  as requested.
He gave no meaningful explanation as to why that was, or of his alternative proposals,
beyond a general reassurance that cover would be put in place on the correct  basis.
This seems to be the first date that the agent  made any contact with NFUMs underwriters
about the proposed changes, which  suggests to me that hed taken no meaningful  action
between 14 October 2014  and 29 October 2014, despite the deadline of 1 November 2014.
The first time Mx and Mrs C received any real indication of what the agent had proposed to
the underwriters,  and the extent to which this differed from their original request, was when
they received  a Fact Find to sign on 10 November 2014. By this time the changes  to the
partnerships activities had already taken effect.  Shortly afterwards, the agent did agree  to
meet Mx C in order to clarify  the reasons for the changes and to fix a number  of loose ends.
A number  of issues seem to have been resolved during this meeting, so its disappointing
that it couldnt have taken  place earlier, in the 17 days  before the changes  took effect.
Ref: DRN93143736Its clear from Mx Cs emails that they were concerned about what cover,  if any, would be in
place as of 1 November 2014 during  this period. When they did find out what  cover  had
been arranged  they were  understandably  disappointed  that it wasnt what theyd requested.
It caused confusion  that the agent  didnt initially explain why the request for a homeworker
extension couldnt  be accommodated, or why the partnerships policy  had been recycled.
And it would have been frustrating that he expressed confusion  about  the request  despite
having had time to seek clarification. Ive accounted  for this in assessing  fair compensation.
It doesnt appear to me that Mx and Mrs C were initially in a position to make  an informed
decision as to whether  to accept the agents alternative proposals.  The first time they were
even fully aware of them  was nine days after theyd been put in place. Mx C says that as a
result of this they lost the opportunity to search  for alternatives.
I note that Mx C only enquired with NFUM about the partnerships insurance arrangements.
So, it would seem that their preference, if possible,  was to remain  with NFUM. I dont get the
sense theyd considered switching insurers at that point. They  were  longstanding NFUM
customers and dont  appear to have habitually  shopped around for the cheapest premium.
I cant see that they approached other  insurers when the agent  said he didnt think  he could
go down the extension to home  route a few days before the changes took effect, or later,
when the agent maintained this stance.  In fact, following the meeting in mid-November  2014,
Mx C seemed content to continue with the agents  proposals after agreeing some changes.
After all, they were  broadly a continuation of what had already been  in place for many years.
Mx C says they were  forced to accept  the proposals by that point. But they had the right to
cancel their policies  at any time and receive a refund for any unused cover  (if they hadnt
made a claim). In practice, that means  they could  have cancelled  the farm insurance policy
as late as 26 November  2014 (when  they made a new claim) without penalty if theyd found
a suitable alternative. The household  insurance policy could  have been  cancelled any time.
Im not persuaded so far that the partnership would have taken different policies if the
arrangements the agent eventually made had been finalised prior to 1 November 2014.
NFUM declined to meet to discuss the request, despite demonstrating confusion about it.
And theyve  never provided details of what exactly the agent proposed  to its underwriters
NFUM has a network of regional offices  and it emphasises the benefit  of having real
conversations in order to see the details that really matter in its advertising campaigns.
Its clear from the correspondence  that the agent had been Mx Cs main point of contact for
a number of years and that similar reviews  had been carried  out in person  in the past.
It doesnt seem that Mx Cs offer to visit the office  where the agent worked was out of the
ordinary. The business changes were indeed complex, and the agent admitted  to struggling
to get his head around them. Taking that into account, a face to face meeting, or even a
telephone call, would no doubt have been  beneficial to both Mx C and the agent.
Like I said, I think its likely that if the meeting which took place in mid-November  2014  had
taken place before the agent made changes to the partnerships insurance  arrangements,
many of these issues wouldnt have arisen.  I can empathise with Mx Cs view that they didnt
receive NFUMs  advertised level of service. And that this led to exactly the situation that
level of service is intended to avoid. It would have been particularly frustrating that theyd
proactively offered to visit the agent  in person, but this hadnt been  taken  up.
Ref: DRN93143737In consequence  of the above, NFUM didnt establish all of the relevant facts. This meant,  for
example, it made decisions about the home worker extension based on the limited
companys turnover instead of the partnerships turnover.
I havent revisited whether NFUM would have agreed to offer Mx and Mrs C a homeworker
extension if the request  had been  presented based on the partnerships  rental income.
Ive addressed the agents failure  to carry out a formal  fact finding exercise in greater detail
under a later heading.
NFUM failed to act on instructions to terminate the partnerships policy
In the correspondence that took place between  Mx C and the agent before the changes to
the business took effect, Mx C said, it was my expectation that all current  cover will need to
end, and new policies  start. The agent replied to reassure Mx C that new policies would be
set up and that he would send over policy numbers later that day.
This would have reinforced  Mx Cs understanding that the partnerships policy would end. Its
now well established that this didnt happen. The policy  was instead transferred, using the
same policy number, to the limited  company.  Given the impact of that transfer has previously
been considered by an ombudsman, I havent  revisited it here. Ive only considered  the
agents role in these  events in order to build an overall picture of the level of customer
service he provided in handling  the requested changes.
Clearly, the agent  made promises about how those  changes  would be administered that
werent subsequently kept. This inevitably caused confusion  and frustration down the line.
And it would have further compounded the impact of some of the other customer service
issues highlighted in this provisional decision.
In effecting the requested changes, NFUM failed to provide the partnership  with a demands
and needs statements.
Theres broad agreement that the limited companys policy, which Ive referred to here
because the partnerships assets  were  insured under it, should have been set up as new.
Mx Cs original request  included an enquiry  about another product,  NFUMs  homeworker
extension, which it subsequently declined  to offer. Furthermore, Mx C made clear in the
request that they were reliant on the agents advice as to how continued cover for the
partnerships assets and activities could be achieved.
In light of this, I think it would have been appropriate for the agent to have completed  a
formal fact finding exercise  in good  time before the changes (to the partnerships business
activities and its insurance  arrangements) came into effect. And to have set out his findings
in a demands and needs  statement. His recommendations should then have been presented
to Mx and Mrs C with specific reference to their demands and needs, again in good time
before the changes  took effect,  to allow them to make an informed decision.
As well as being a regulatory requirement, I think this would have helped  Mx and Mrs C to
understand why the arrangements proposed  by the agent differed to what  theyd  requested.
The likelihood is this would  have  sparked a conversation whereby Mx and Mrs Cs eligibility
for the homeworker extension could have been explored and explained. It also would have
highlighted the items  which necessitated further amendments to the partnerships  cover
throughout October and November 2014.
Ref: DRN93143738By the time the agent did carry out a process  of this nature, cover  had already  started  and
his relationship with Mx C had become more strained which  made things harder to unpick.
Again, Ive kept all of this in mind when  considering  what would be a fair amount of
compensation overall.
The above  involved  multiple breaches of rules, regulations, legislation and codes of practice
and the level of service  provided ran contrary to that which is offered in NFUMs advertising
campaigns.
Im keen to reassure Mx and Mrs C that Ive noted  the specific rules, regulations, legislation
and codes of practice  that theyve referred to in their submissions. And while I havent
referenced each one individually,  Ive been  careful to have regard to all of them in reaching
my provisional decision. The same  applies  to the advertising campaigns theyve sent us.
Furthermore, Ive carefully considered Mx Cs submissions about their disability, and the way
in which  theyve described that it exacerbated the impact of NFUMs failings. In particular,
Ive noted that their disability can make them feel distrustful of others,  misunderstood and,
sometimes, suicidal. I can see that this hampers their ability  to cope with conflict, delays,
unclear communication and unkept  promises, all of which were  arguably at play here.
In reaching a decision, I ultimately need to consider whether NFUM  treated Mx and Mrs C
fairly (whilst  paying regard  to the above). Where I think  it hasnt, I need to consider the
impact of those failings on Mx and Mrs C. My point is that the volume of breaches isnt
necessarily material to the redress I award.  Whats important is the collective impact of any
instances where I conclude NFUM hasnt treated Mx and Mrs C fairly.
In summary,  I think the agents handling of the requested changes to the partnerships
insurance arrangements caused distress and inconvenience to both Mx and Mrs C, which
was prolonged  over a period of several weeks. I think, in Mx Cs case,  the distress and
inconvenience would have been  exacerbated by their disability. Taking everything into
account, I intend to direct  NFUM to pay £400 compensation (in total) to Mx and Mrs C.
NFUMs legal cover  was unsuitable and didnt cover  the types of legal issues likely  to be
faced by a farm that produces and sells eggs (the partnerships primary activity  until 2014).
The terms were misleading regarding Mx Cs ability to select their own solicitor. And it was
unclear who ultimately  provided the insurance.  If Mx C had more  information at the point of
sale they would have chosen  to join the NFU (the union)s legal assistance scheme instead.
This dates  back to 2010 when Mx C, then acting  as a sole trader, insured their business
activities under a farm insurance policy, and later added commercial  legal expenses cover.
Mx C feels  the policy would never have covered a dispute between the partnership and its
primary regulator (a government agency). So, they feel the policy doesnt provide adequate
protection for farmers dealing with regulatory matters. They found out NFUMs  underwriters
seemed keen to explore this perceived deficiency  during  a review of its legal cover.
These issues first came to a head  when  the partnership was issued with a penalty  notice by
a government agency in November 2014.  Mx C didnt pay the penalty and the matter  was
referred to the relevant government department for a possible  criminal investigation.
In a decision issued  in 2016,  one of our ombudsmen concluded that, strictly, the policy
wouldnt cover  the dispute  unless legal  proceedings were  issued. But she encouraged
NFUM to be pragmatic and support Mx C to stop things getting that far. NFUM reimbursed
Mx Cs legal fees and instructed a firm of solicitors  on its panel to review  the case.
Ref: DRN93143739In the end, the government department  didnt  (or couldnt) pursue a criminal conviction  and
issued a warning  instead. Mx C wanted  to dispute the matter further but the only way of
doing so would ultimately have been  via judicial  review, which  was excluded. Mx C tried to
submit other claims for personal injury and discrimination, but they were  declined.  They  also
enquired about  a claim for trespass but its unclear whether this was pursued. Further claims
about the same events  were declined under Mx Cs personal legal cover. In 2017 one of our
ombudsmen concluded  there was nothing  more she could ask NFUM  to do.
In broad terms, I think NFUMs recommendation to take the policy was a suitable one. I think
the policy did cover regulatory  disputes  (albeit  with some limitations)  and other sections of
cover (like tax protection,  property protection and bodily injury,  and contract disputes for
example) were also of relevance  to Mx Cs (and later the partnerships)  business activities.
Mx C asserts that the agent (who also acts as group  secretary  for the union in Mx Cs area)
reassured them that they didnt need  to join the unions legal assistance scheme because
NFUMs legal cover  was comprehensive. This was a discretionary scheme where  union
members could apply  for between 25% and 75% of their legal fees up to £5,000 (or more in
exceptional cases)  for legal disputes  relating to their farming  business. Any advice  the agent
gave Mx C about whether to join the unions legal assistance scheme is outside of my remit.
I can only comment on actions he took while acting as an agent  of NFUM (not the union).
As this was an advised sale, the agent was expected to highlight any of Mx Cs needs that
the policy didnt  meet. It appears to me the policy did cover  regulatory disputes in the main,
but this was limited  by an exclusion for judicial  review (the last resort for contesting decisions
made by a public  body). And cover was only triggered by reasonably  serious events (like
criminal proceedings,  or a statutory notice affecting the farms activities, being issued).
Its debateable whether the agent  was obliged to specifically highlight  these issues  to Mx C
at the point of sale separately to the policy document (which  in itself was only eight pages).
Even if he was, I dont think it would have  resulted  in Mx C (or the partnership) being in a
materially different position.
Its very common  for before the event legal expenses insurers to exclude judicial review,
and cover for legal  defence is generally comparable to that which NFUM provides. So, its
unlikely Mx C could have obtained  broader  cover for regulatory disputes  elsewhere. And I
think Mx C would still have wanted  to proceed with the policy rather than take no cover  at all.
Mx C has suggested they could have supplemented  the cover  by joining the unions legal
assistance scheme. But I dont think Mx C has demonstrated that this would have enabled
the partnership  to pursue the main  dispute with the government agency  further  than they did.
Its a discretionary scheme, which means  each  case is assessed on its own merit. Its also
quite clear that its intended  to support farming and growing businesses.  By the time the
partnership was in dispute with the government agency, it wasnt engaged in farming.
The running of the farm had been taken over by a new and separate  limited company.
Furthermore, any action undertaken with legal assistance would need to have been funded
in part by the partnership. In the case of a judicial  review (which it seems was the route
through which the partnership would need  to have challenged the warning), the potential
costs would have  been really significant (far beyond the £5,000 assistance limit). And there
was no scope for the scheme to assist  with any adverse costs if an action failed. Im not
satisfied the partnership would have been prepared to expose itself to that level of risk.
Ref: DRN931437310Mx C says it was unclear  who provided  NFUMs legal cover.  This complaint seems to have
arisen from comments made by NFUM internally which  implied that its claims handler carries
responsibility for this cover, separately  from NFUM. That isnt true, and I can see why this
would have caused Mx and Mrs C some  confusion.  The policy  literature itself makes quite
clear that the claims handler acts as an agent  of NFUM.  As the underwriter, NFUM retains
ultimate responsibility for this cover, including the conduct of claims and the policy wording.
Finally, Mx C says the terms of this cover were  misleading regarding the partnerships ability
to select its own solicitor,  because it doesnt  explain the standard  terms of appointment
which NFUM (or its agent) impose in this situation. They  feel that the standard terms of
appointment were  so restrictive that they rendered their freedom of choice  meaningless.
As a starting point,  I wouldnt usually expect standard  terms of appointment to be provided to
the policyholder,  and theres case law to support that reference in the policy to the insurers
standard terms of appointment is enough  to incorporate them into the insurance contract.
However, if any standard terms  of appointment significantly restrict the cover available  under
the policy Id expect that to be clear in the policy wording or separately.  If it wasnt,  we might
decide the insurer couldnt insist  on any standard terms  of appointment which significantly
limited the amount payable.
Similarly, unless the policy wording clearly stated  the hourly rate that would be indemnified,
wed expect the insurer to offer a reasonable hourly  rate in the circumstances. That doesnt
mean it needs to appoint  the policyholders preferred firm at whatever cost.  It can still restrict
what it pays to a non-panel  solicitor, so long as it doesnt render the policyholders  freedom
of choice meaningless.
I note that in our previous decision,  the ombudsman commented that she didnt think NFUM
had sought to restrict what it would pay the partnerships  solicitors to an extent that rendered
its freedom of choice  meaningless. And she concluded that NFUM could fairly insist  on the
standard terms of appointment the solicitors werent  prepared to agree to, even though  they
hadnt been highlighted in the policy wording or elsewhere. So, I think  NFUM acted fairly by
simply making reference to their standard terms of appointment  in the policy  wording.
My provisional decision
I intend to direct the National  Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance Society  Limited to pay £400
(total) to Mx and Mrs C for the distress and inconvenience  caused  by its agents handling of
the requested  changes  to the partnerships insurance  arrangements in 2014.  I dont intend to
make an award in relation to the sale of commercial legal cover  to Mx C in 2010.
Responses to my provisional decision
NFUM accepted my provisional  decision and confirmed it was happy to resolve the matter in 
the way that Id suggested. 
Mx C responded to say I hadnt grasped the gravity of the situation or its effect  on them.  
They provided medical reports which documented how their health  conditions make it 
difficult to cope with stress. They provided context about other factors which had made the 
relevant period distressing. Mrs C had been redundant, they were managing two separate  
builds (a shop and egg packing centre and a bird poultry unit) which had involved planning 
issues, and they were running  their existing business alongside setting up the new farm 
shop. Taking all of that into account,  they didnt  consider £400  sufficient  compensation. 
Ref: DRN931437311They also responded to my comments that I didnt think the partnership would have taken 
different policies if NFUMs proposals had been finalised prior to 1 November 2014, 
particularly in reference to my point that they didnt appear to seek  alternatives at the time.  
They said the insurance arrangements were bespoke and even obtaining a quote  took time. 
They sent me copies of emails with brokers from later policy years to support that even if 
theyd sought  alternatives as soon as theyd found out NFUM wasnt going to offer the 
homeworker extension, it would already have been  too late. 
Mx C also questioned my observation that they could have cancelled  the policies at any time 
up until 26 November 2014.  Whilst they hadnt  made  a claim until then, the events the claim 
related to had happened  several weeks prior.  They  added that they had an immense 
workload at the time and just assumed they were locked into the policies until they renewed. 
Overall, they maintained  their position  that they were forced to accept insurance proposals 
they didnt want. 
Finally, they confirmed they didnt intend to dispute  my comments  regarding the legal 
expenses cover, other than to say that the terms applied by NFUM  meant their preferred 
solicitor didnt feel in a position to take on their case.  And that the only reason judicial review 
became the only realistic  option was because  NFUM hadnt  initially provided any assistance.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very grateful to Mx C for providing  additional  information about their health  conditions, 
and for the context  theyve given me about the backdrop to the events that Im addressing 
under this complaint reference. 
The medical reports certainly contain commentary  which is relevant to the impact  NFUMs 
agents errors had on Mx C. Having said that, Mx C had already  provided a very detailed  
account of their condition  and its effects in their response to our investigators opinion letter. 
And Id been happy to take them at their word. In my provisional  decision, I said: 
Ive noted that their disability can make them feel distrustful of others,  misunderstood and, 
sometimes, suicidal. I can see that this hampers their ability  to cope with conflict, delays, 
unclear communication and unkept  promises, all of which were  arguably at play here.
Whilst Ive identified a number of failings in the provisional decision, the key impact of each 
failing was the same. For a period of weeks, Mx and Mrs C were  unsure what cover the 
partnership had in place. They were unsure why their request hadnt  been accommodated in 
its original format. And they had to have a number of additional interactions with the agent to 
arrange full cover, which shouldnt have been  required. In Mx Cs case  in particular, the 
impact of this was exacerbated by the health conditions described above.  
I appreciate that Mrs Cs redundancy, the building of the shop, egg packing centre and bird 
poultry unit (along  with the associated planning  issues) and the continued  running  of the 
existing business  meant  Mx and Mrs C already  had lots going on. But these circumstances, 
which NFUM wasnt responsible for, were always likely  to be distressing. And I can only 
compensate Mx and Mrs C for the extent  to which NFUM made the situation worse than it 
otherwise might have  been. 
Ref: DRN931437312Mx C has talked of the length of time this has been  outstanding  and the trauma its caused. 
But I think its important to clarify that this decision is only intended to address the agents 
involvement in these events, which effectively ended  once the necessary amendments were  
made to the policies  after the meeting which took place in November 2014. The manner in 
which NFUM underwrote the policies,  and handled the claims Mx C subsequently  made  on 
them, have been  considered separately. 
Taking everything into account,  I still think £400  fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused by NFUMs agent. 
Ive gone back  through  the evidence to reassess Mx Cs argument that they were  forced  into 
accepting insurance  proposals they wouldnt otherwise have accepted.  As a starting point, 
they only seem to have  enquired with NFUM about  insuring  the partnerships  new activities.  
Theyd held a range of policies with NFUM  going  back a number of years and had developed 
a close working relationship with the agent.  The request to insure  the partnerships activities 
wasnt made in isolation,  it was tied up with requests relating to the insurance arrangements  
for their home and a new limited company.  
I dont think the language  of the original request indicates Mx and Mrs C were only prepared 
to continue to insure  the partnership with NFUM under a homeworker extension. They said, 
we want insurance cover continuous for all risks currently  covered however I am uncertain 
how that will be achieved in practice I did wonder if we could return  to the homeworker  
extension? This suggests they were  open  to other  options if the homeworker extension  
wasnt available, so long as continuous  cover  was achieved, which it eventually was. 
Based on the timings  of the correspondence Mx C had with brokers in later years, it doesnt 
appear theyd left sufficient time to approach other insurers if NFUM  declined  the request. 
In 2015, a broker felt 20 days wasnt long enough to gather quotes. And there was less time 
than that between Mx Cs original request  to NFUM  and the business  changes taking place. 
That would reinforce  that they werent  realistically  considering switching insurers  if NFUM 
said they werent eligible for the homeworker extension.  And suggests they wouldnt have 
had time to look at alternative options even  if they were, and NFUM  had replied promptly. 
Mx C has said they could have delayed the changes if the request was handled promptly.  
But if the changes  were that dependent  on insurance being provided  in a particular format,  
or at a particular price,  and the date of the changes was flexible,  then its unclear why the 
date was fixed prior to the original request being made to NFUM. And its unclear why 
Mx and Mrs C didnt  delay the changes when  they didnt initially receive a response  from the 
agent, or later, when he said he didnt think he could  go down  the extension  to home route.   
Once the agent maintained his stance at the meeting, theres  nothing  in the correspondence 
to indicate this was unacceptable  to Mx and Mrs C. As I said, they seemed reasonably  
content to continue with the arrangements once the required  amendments  had been made. 
They didnt enquire about their rights  to be released  from the policies or raise a complaint. 
The terms allowed them  to cancel the policies at any time (even outside of the cooling off 
period) and receive a refund of any unused  premiums  so long as no claims had been made. 
I take Mx Cs point that its unclear how this would have worked in practice given they were  
aware of circumstances that might give rise to a legal expenses  claim from the start of 
November 2014.  Perhaps NFUM would have retained the full years  premium in relation to 
the legal  expenses cover  in that particular scenario. But my point is that Mx C doesnt  seem 
to have explored this at the time.  
Ref: DRN931437313I also felt it was relevant  that the arrangements NFUM proposed in the end were broadly a 
continuation of the arrangements that Mx and Mrs C had been renewing for many  years.  
NFUM insured the partnerships assets  under a continuation of the farm insurance  policy.
Therefore, I didnt think this would  have been particularly unpalatable to Mx and Mrs C, 
despite their disappointment  that the homeworker extension hadnt  been offered, if the 
reasoning had been adequately explained.  I find it unlikely based on their comments  about 
their workload at the time that theyd have been inclined to research alternatives with other 
providers instead,  and Mx C has said they wouldnt have  known  who to approach. It seems 
more likely theyd have  stuck with NFUM and gone ahead with the agents  proposals. 
I recognise that subsequently, following its declinature of Mx Cs claim, the relationship  
between NFUM and Mx C broke  down completely. This resulted in them ending the policies 
at the following renewal.  
However, I need to be careful not to apply hindsight in my review of what they would have 
done if the agent had handled the requested  changes promptly and fairly. Having done so, 
Im still not persuaded Mx and Mrs C would have  done anything differently. As such,  Ive 
decided, on balance, they didnt incur any financial losses as a result of the agents errors. 
My final decision
I direct  the National Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance Society Limited to pay £400  (total) to 
Mx and Mrs C for the distress and inconvenience caused by its agents  handling  of the 
requested changes to the partnerships insurance arrangements  in 2014. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mx and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2021.
Mike Walker
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9314373