K822xComplaint
Mr C, represented by Miss T, complains  that the car he acquired  through  a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Background 
Mr C entered into a conditional sale agreement  with Close Brothers  in February  2018  to 
acquire a used  car. He drove a short distance after collecting the car and then says the car 
wouldnt start. He contacted the dealer which attended the car and jump started it. Mr C 
returned home and again  the car wouldnt start.  He contacted the dealer again and a new 
battery was provided  along with a new wing mirror (as this was broken when the car was 
collected).
Mr C says he then checked  the previous MOT and after discussing this with the dealer it 
agreed to address the outstanding advisories. Mr C says the car was taken to a garage and 
the repairs took two weeks during which time no courtesy car was provided.
When the car was returned, Miss T says it was in a poor condition and that after driving a 
short distance it started to misfire and the engine management light (EML) came  on. At this 
point Mr C contacted  Close  Brothers  to ask to reject the car but he was told he had to let the 
dealer attempt a repair  first. The car was returned for investigation and Mr C says he was 
without it for eight weeks during which time he didnt  have a car. Given  the situation  Mr C no 
longer wanted  the car and chose to make  alternative arrangements.
Following the repairs,  Mr C says the wing mirror was smashed again  and that while driving 
the car home  it was pulling to the left. After getting the car home Mr C says it wouldnt start 
so he had to get another battery. Then,  in August 2018, while  Miss T was driving, she says 
there was a loud noise  and a disc flew off from under the car. Mr C doesnt believe  the car is 
safe to drive.
Close Brothers says that Mr C raised  a complaint on 12 March  2018 saying that he had 
experienced issues with the car that had been  repaired  by the supplying dealer however 
following this the car was mis-firing  and the EML was illuminated. It says that as this was a 
different issue to the initial repairs  the dealer was allowed an opportunity  to attempt a repair. 
It says the repairs took place at no cost to Mr C but that by the time the car was ready  for 
collection Mr C had acquired another  vehicle. It says that Mr C remains liable for the car he 
acquired under the conditional sale agreement.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that although repairs  had been undertaken 
she was satisfied that these hadnt  successfully resolved the issues. Therefore she thought it 
fair that Mr C be allowed to reject the car and have his agreement unwound. She also 
thought that he should  be refunded  the payments he had made from March  2018 along with 
interest and also refunded  £25 that had been  charged for him to change  the number  plate on 
his agreement. She also thought he should  be paid £180 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience he had been caused.
Close Brothers didnt  accept our adjudicators view. It said that there  was no documentary  
evidence to show that the car was currently faulty.  It said it had asked that the car undergo a 
diagnostic report at its cost but this hadnt happened.  It said that the initial fault with the car 
was fixed at no cost to Mr C after which it experienced a mis-fire.  It said this was also fixed, 
with Mr Cs authority and at no cost to him. It said Mr C then chose to acquire a different  
Ref: DRN94786992vehicle and it was agreed the dealer would sell his car but this didnt happen. It said Mr C 
had driven minimal mileage due to him deciding to get another vehicle and that it shouldnt 
have to accept  rejection  when there  wasnt evidence of an ongoing  fault.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in which  I reached  the following conclusions.
Mr C experienced issues with the car shortly after acquisition  and repairs were 
undertaken. However he then experienced further issues and he contacted  Close 
Brothers about these  on 12 March  and said he wanted to hand back  the car.
Under the CRA 2015, Mr C had 30 days to reject  the car if it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. The calculation of 30 days  is put on hold while repairs are taking place. In this 
case the car was in for repairs  for two weeks before the issues were  raised  on 12 March.  
Therefore I found that Mr C was still within the 30 day period when he asked to reject the 
car and that Close Brothers should  have  accepted his request.
Mr C had to show  there was a fault with the car. After it was returned for misfiring a faulty  
fuel pump that was replaced. Given this I found  that the car had a fault that would have 
been more likely than not present or developing at the point of supply. 
Close Brothers didnt  accept Mr Cs request to reject the car and repairs  were 
undertaken. Mr C was without the car for eight weeks  and no alternative transport was 
provided. Given the issues and that Mr C wasnt  given alternative transport I found it 
reasonable that Mr C decided  to acquire a different  vehicle. This was his choice but as I 
found that he should have  been allowed to reject  the car in March 2018,  I thought  it 
reasonable that actions were taken to put Mr C back in the position he would have been 
had this happened.
Our adjudicator said that she felt Mr C should be allowed to reject the car due to the 
repairs not being successful. Close Brother  has said there  wasnt  documentary evidence  
of this. I thought  it more  likely than no that the repairs werent successful. However, I 
upheld this complaint in regard to the rejection  being  allowed under the 30 day right to 
reject I so didnt go any further  into this aspect of the complaint.
Overall I thought it fair that Mr C be allowed to reject  the car and that his conditional  sale 
agreement should  be unwound with nothing further  owing. I also thought that any adverse 
information that may have been  added to his credit file should be removed.
Mr C had very limited use of the car. It was in for repair for two weeks  in the first month and 
then a further eight weeks  and he said it hasnt  been  driven since August 2018 following the 
incident when  Miss T was driving. Given this (and that I thought he should  be put back  in the 
position he would have been had his request to reject been accepted in March  2018), I said 
that all payments made since 12 March 2018  should  be refunded along with interest.
Mr C was inconvenienced by the issues he experienced and by not being allowed to reject  
the car in March  2018. I thought compensation of £250 was reasonable because  he had to 
return the car for repairs  twice within a short period and didnt receive a courtesy car. He 
then had to continue with this complaint when I felt that his request to reject should  have 
been accepted.
Ref: DRN94786993Mr C accepted my provisional  decision.  Close Brothers didnt respond.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As no new information was provided in 
response to my provisional  decision, my decision  hasnt changed.  
Mr C acquired  a used car under a conditional  sale agreement with Close  Brothers. Under the 
regulations Close Brothers can be held liable  if the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  For this complaint the relevant legislation is the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 
(CRA 2015)  which  sets out what is expected  in regard to satisfactory quality. In this case  the 
car Mr C acquired was first registered  in December 2010. The agreement states the mileage 
at acquisition as 48,000  although Mr C has said it was higher than this. I have taken these 
factors into account.
As I set out in my provisional  decision I dont think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply  due to the issues  that Mr C experienced shortly after acquisition. I think Close  
Brothers should have  accepted Mr Cs request to reject the car in March  2018 as he was still 
within the 30 day time period and faults had been  found. Because  of this I think  he should 
now be put back in the position  he would have been had this happened.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Close  Brothers Limited should:
1.collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
2.cancel Mr Cs conditional  sale agreement with nothing further owing and remove any 
adverse information  regarding  this agreement that may have been  recorded on his credit 
file;
3.refund  any monthly payments made by Mr C from 12 March 2018 to the date of 
settlement;
4.refund  Mr C the £25 Close Brothers  charged him for the plate change on the agreement.
5.pay £250 to Mr C to cover the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
Item 3 is subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If Close Brothers considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a 
tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9478699