K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr G bought the policy at a meeting  in 2000 at the same time as taking a mortgage. He was 
employed at the time as a manager  and had been  there three years. Hes told us he was 
entitled to at least three months full pay if he were  made redundant and had £20,000 in 
savings he couldve used  to pay his mortgage if he couldnt work. I think its likely Mr G was 
also entitled to statutory sick pay, from what hes told us. Mr G was, from what hes told us, 
in good health at the time of the sale and hadnt had any health  issues.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr G for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. To help Mr G with mortgage related costs, for a successful claim 
the policy at the start offered to pay around  £440 a month and cost around £27 a month.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2004. Mr Gs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Gs 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr G wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Gs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr G about  
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr G and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr G received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr G disagreed  with the adjudicators  
Ref: DRN99569592opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Gs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN99569593The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Gs 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable  rule of law or 
relevant judicial  authority.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr G with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr G, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr G suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN99569594Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr G and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr G know  he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr G has said he had no interest in PPI 
and says it was just included as part of the package with his mortgage. But his mortgage 
application form had a separate PPI section  with a space for him to sign, separate from 
signing for the mortgage itself, to say he wanted the PPI cover. Also,  to get the PPI set up, 
Mr G signed a separate PPI application form to apply for it. So I think  its likely Mr G was 
aware the PPI was something separate from the mortgage when he agreed to take it.
Mr Gs mortgage application  form said he had to have buildings  insurance  but for PPI it said 
only that Halifax recommend that you consider it  so it looks  from this like Mr G wouldve 
been given a choice about  the PPI. The declaration Mr G signed on the PPI application form 
said I wish to apply  for the PPI cover  and he signed on his mortgage application to say he 
wanted the PPI. I havent seen anything to make me think  Mr G had to sign a PPI application 
form or sign for the PPI on his mortgage application if he didnt want  the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr G knew the PPI policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mr G disagrees but hes also told us he cant  
recall how the PPI was sold. Also, if Halifax did give advice it had to do more. With all this in 
mind, Im persuaded that Halifax  likely gave advice and that its fair to proceed  on that basis.  
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr G with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr G. It seems Mr G cant remember  what  happened  and there is no 
record of exactly what the adviser  discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  did have some information  about Mr Gs 
financial circumstances from his mortgage  application, and established he was in permanent  
employment. Answers on the PPI application form completed at the meeting  indicate that 
Halifax also established Mr G was working  at least 16 hours per week  and wasnt  aware of 
any impending  unemployment. But there is no specific evidence  to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mr G had a need  for the cover. For example, there is nothing to 
suggest Halifax asked  Mr G about  his work benefits.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr G given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr G, I do think its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN99569595-Mr G met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr G had a need  for the policy: Taking  into account his work  redundancy pay and his 
entitlement to statutory  sick pay, it seems likely hed suffer  a significant drop in income if 
he werent working for an extended  period - the policy benefit would help him manage 
the consequences of that. By helping  meet  his mortgage related costs, the benefit would 
have helped protect Mr Gs home  and helped leave  his savings, which  hed chosen so 
far to keep rather than use towards his mortgage,  intact  or free to meet other liabilities  at 
what could be a difficult time if Mr G were unemployed or too sick to work.
-Although Mr G says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr G. There  was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  for him to 
claim. Regarding  pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr G didnt  have any and was in good 
health, but the policy didnt exclude  claims arising from existing health issues anyway.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr G were unable  to do his own or any similar  job and unable 
to do any work  his experience, education  or training reasonably qualified  him to do. But 
the policy still provided valuable cover given  Mr Gs circumstances and the significant  
loss of income hed likely suffer were he unable to work  for an extended  period due to 
disability or redundancy.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Halifax  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr G was given  a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, it would protect his payments  if he were unable  to work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment). I have reached this conclusion because  I think  its 
unlikely Mr G would have  taken the policy without any sense of what  it was for. Also the PPI 
section on his mortgage application was headed Accident, Sickness and Unemployment 
Insurance, called the PPI Mortgage  Repayments  Insurance and said it provides you with 
insurance against accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment . His PPI application 
form was headed  Mortgage  Repayments  Insurance Application and set out what  his 
monthly mortgage payment was to start with and the starting amounts of the monthly PPI 
benefit and the monthly  PPI premium cost.  So I think  it likely Mr G was made aware  of what 
the PPI premium would  cost to begin  with.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr G agreed to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr G Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr G all the information he needed  
Ref: DRN99569596about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Gs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Gs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Gs representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr G about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Gs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr G has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Halifax ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr G? To what extent  did he suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr G. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr G suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not he would have still 
taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr G, I have found  the policy was ultimately suitable 
for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr G has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr G would have acted  differently or whether he would have taken the policy  in any event.
Mr G says he wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN99569597return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr G had some interest in taking payment protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised him there was a suitable product he could 
buy that would protect  his mortgage payments if he were unable  to work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he thought he was getting is 
not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Gs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr G was given about the cost and benefit 
was clear. So I think he wouldve known  what the PPI premium was going to be and that for 
a successful claim the policy would pay an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage payment 
plus an additional cash payment.
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  and exclusions,  
wasnt as clear as it should have been. Possibly  the most significant differences between  
what Mr G thought he had bought  and what he actually  bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr G wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr G be unable  to do his own or 
any similar job and be unable to do any paid work his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr G pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr G from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him if the 
insured risks had happened.  I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr G wouldve 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he was in permanent  employment and in 
good health, although the policy didnt exclude  claims for existing health issues anyway.
So, I think Mr G still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr G might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
Ref: DRN99569598limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr G 
from taking the policy,  Mr G, in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mr G had known he could only claim for disability if he were unable  to do his own or any 
similar job and unable to do any paid work his experience, education or training reasonably 
qualified him to do, it might have played into his thinking about  what to do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  but, given  his circumstances,  on balance I think  he 
would still have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr G any claim he made would be limited to 24 months.  This may 
have differed from what he expected and mightve hoped  for. But Mr Gs work redundancy 
pay was worth less than even 12 months  full pay and his statutory sick pay entitlement  was 
worth less than this. In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr G wouldve still thought a 
policy that paid up to 24 monthly benefit  payments would be of benefit  and help him manage 
the consequences if he were unable to work  in the circumstances covered by the PPI. The 
policy allowed for multiple claims to be made and the benefit could help reduce his outgoings 
at what could be a difficult and uncertain  time if he were unemployed or too sick to work  
helping to ensure  his home was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr G would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for him, sufficiently close to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  and it provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he were  made redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr G would have taken  the policy in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr Gs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr G would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have  been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr G believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Ref: DRN99569599Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr G in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr G wouldnt have taken the PPI, Im satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken the PPI had he been  
given clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was buying. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, to conclude Halifax 
should pay Mr G compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Im also aware Mr G thinks Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Halifaxs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Halifax gave Mr G, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Gs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr G and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find Halifax  had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr G in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9956959