K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has turned down his claim on his 
mobile phone insurance.
background
Mr K made a claim on his mobile phone insurance policy in February 2019 for the loss of his 
phone. Assurant assessed the claim but ultimately turned it down as it said Mr K had given 
false or inaccurate information.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as she felt Assurant had acted  reasonably in 
turning down the claim. Mr K didnt agree so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why below.
The terms of Mr Ks policy say that Assurant  wont honour a claim where false  or inaccurate 
information is provided and fraud is identified. Assurant hasnt suggested that fraud  has 
been identified  in this case. But policies like this will usually only cover  claims once the 
policyholder has shown that a genuine loss that is covered by the policy has occurred. And 
so I still think it would be reasonable  for Assurant to turn down a claim where false or 
inaccurate information was provided if the false or inaccurate information meant it wasnt 
satisfied a genuine loss had occurred.
Assurants records show that when Mr K first called about the claim in February 2019, he 
said he had tried to track the phone using the Find My iPhone app. Mr K also sent us a copy 
of an email he received  from Apple on the same day, saying the Find My iPhone feature had 
been disabled.
The Find My iPhone app allows the location  of the phone to be tracked  and the phone to be 
locked so that it cant be used. That Mr K said he tried to use the app suggests he knew 
what it was. And Mr K says he didnt ask Apple to disable the feature in February 2019. So, 
as Mr K would want to find the phone or stop it being used by someone else if it had been 
lost, I think it would be reasonable  to expect him to question why the Find My iPhone feature 
had been disabled when he received this email from Apple. But Mr K said he didnt question  
it.
Assurant also sent us sent us a copy of a search from March 2019  showing the Find My 
iPhone feature  was currently active. And it sent us a copy of a phone  recording from the 
same day in which Mr K said the phone  was still showing as linked to his Apple account.
In order to reactivate  the Find My iPhone  feature, or disable  it in the first place,  someone  
wouldve needed to enter Mr Ks Apple  account password on the phone  itself or show  Apple 
proof of purchase of the phone and give them  Mr Ks Apple account username and 
password. But Mr K says he didnt  disable  the Find My iPhone feature in February  2019  or 
re-activate it in March  2019 and that no-one  else knows his Apple account password.
Ref: DRN92552212As Mr K hasnt  been  able to give any other explanation of how the Find My iPhone feature 
was disabled and then activated again, I think Assurant is entitled  to conclude  that some  of 
the information he has given is false or inaccurate. And, as this means Mr K hasnt shown a 
genuine loss occurred, I think Assurant has acted reasonably  in not meeting his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9255221