K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that St Andrews Insurance Plc, as the insurer,  should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to St Andrews as the seller  in 
my decision.
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a loan that Ms J took out in 2000  by post. 
Ms J says St Andrews  mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  the complaint. 
Ms J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
St Andrews  had to make  Ms J aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her loan. Ms J has told us that the PPI was added  to her loan without her 
knowledge. The sale of this policy took place a long time ago so limited  information from the 
time is now available,  but St Andrews has sent us a copy  of the paperwork it has. Ms J 
signed an acceptance form which had been pre-filled before it was sent to her by post. This 
was in addition  to her application for the loan. Ms J has told us that she doesnt think  this 
form clearly showed that it related to a PPI policy. Ive considered what Ms J has said but the 
form was titled Creditcare  Acceptance Form.  It also set out the monthly loan cost and the 
monthly cost of the PPI. So I think Ms J would have  known she was agreeing to something 
separate to her loan and she agreed  to take out the policy.
St Andrews  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms J so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms J got the information she needed  to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had 
of making her repayments which included sick pay and various other  insurance  policies. But 
The PPI would have  paid out in addition to Ms Js sick pay and for longer. The PPI would 
also have paid out in addition to any other  insurance  Ms J had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Js circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means St Andrews doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms J.
Ive thought about everything Ms J has said - including that there is an error  on the loan 
application. I dont  know for certain what caused this error, but I dont think this means her 
PPI policy  was mis-sold. So these points  dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN94483562Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9448356