K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about  the handling of a claim they made  on a buildings  and 
contents insurance policy provided by the Society of Lloyds (SoL). They  were  informed that 
subsidence cover  is restricted to just the house  and doesnt  include the terrace  or swimming 
pool. They believe the documentation they received at the time of the sale and subsequently 
is flawed, contradictory  and misleading.
background
Mr and Mrs B arranged  an insurance  policy for their overseas holiday home  via a broker  in 
2012. They  told us that they detailed the cover  they wanted their insurance policy to provide, 
including subsidence,  and received a quotation.  Shortly thereafter, they received a key facts 
document. Mr and Mrs B decided to take the recommended policy.
Following the policy  going on risk they were sent further documentation  by the broker.  This 
included documentation  summarising the discussions with the broker,  the policy  schedule  
and another copy  of the key facts  document. The policy document  (wording)  was also stated 
to be included, but Mr and Mrs B say it wasnt. Theyve told us they didnt  request  a copy 
when they noticed the omission.
The key facts document detailed what was included under the definition  of buildings and the 
perils that were covered by the policy. This list doesnt detail  subsidence as an insured peril;  
indeed, subsidence  is included in the section for significant exclusions or limitations  it was 
not covered unless it is detailed in the schedule that it is. It was also highlighted that further 
information about the cover could be found  in section  one of the policy  wording  buildings 
and definitions.
The 2012  policy  schedule  was endorsed to show that it included  subsidence for the buildings 
and contents sections of the policy. It explained  the details of the insurance contract were 
shown in the policy wording.
The policy document/wording detailed that subsidence cover  was an optional extra on the 
policy  it was only covered if it had been selected  and it was detailed on the policy schedule 
that it was included. It detailed:
1.subsidence or heave of the site upon which the buildings stand or landslip 
Under what We will not pay it stated:
a)for properties located outside the United Kingdom for loss or damage to domestic 
fixed fuel-oil tanks, swimming pools, tennis courts, drives,  patios and terraces,  walls 
gates and fences
Buildings was defined as The home, fixtures and fittings attached  to the home  including  
fixed air conditioning units, solar  panels, wind turbines and generators, tennis courts, drives, 
patios and terraces, walls, gates and fences and fixed  fuel tanks. Swimming pools and fixed  
irrigation systems you own or for which you are legally liable within  the premises  named  in 
your schedule.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs B noticed that there was damage to their holiday home, swimming pool 
and surrounding  terracing. They made  a claim under  the insurance policy. They  were  
Ref: DRN95304092informed at an early point in the claim process that the damage to the main building would 
be considered, but the terrace and swimming pool wouldnt be as it wasnt covered  by the 
policy. Mr and Mrs B complained.
SoL provided its final response  to the complaint in early  2019. It pointed out the key features 
and policy  schedule directed Mr and Mrs B to read the policy wording  for full details of the 
cover provided. It quoted  the policy wording, which set out that swimming pools, terraces, 
etc. were not covered for subsidence. It didnt uphold the complaint  about the documentation 
and cover provided by the policy. It, however, offered £200 for delays and poor service.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy  with SoLs  position  and referred  their complaint about the 
limitation of cover to this service. Mr and Mrs B said that if just the endorsement and key 
facts are considered, they suggest  the swimming pool is covered for subsidence. The 
limitation on the subsidence cover  wasnt detailed in the key facts and the schedule  under 
the endorsement. The lack of information led to them buying a policy that didnt do what  they 
wanted it to. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept the investigators opinion. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I would initially confirm  that this policy  
was sold to Mr and Mrs B by a broker; so SoL is not responsible for the recommendation of 
this policy, its suitability  for their needs  and circumstances  or for anything the broker told 
them about  the policy. I will be considering their concerns  regarding  the documentation SoL 
produced  the policy schedule, the policy document/wording and the key facts  document.
I have noted Mr and Mrs Bs comments on the policy documentation they acknowledge 
having received.  The key facts document is simply that  key generic facts associated with 
the policy  for example the perils it covers. It is not tailored to an individual  consumer. In 
this case the key fact about subsidence  is that it isnt usually included  in the policy   it can 
be but as an additional option and that must be confirmed in the schedule. I wouldnt expect 
to see details of exclusions to cover for any of the perils unless that exclusion was onerous 
or unusual.  Given subsidence cover  for overseas properties isnt usually available  at all, I 
dont think limited cover when it is provided would be considered  unusual  or onerous. This 
document also references that further  details of the cover and definitions were  contained  in 
the policy wording.   
The policy schedule documents that subsidence  is provided by the policy.  It is also 
confirmed that the schedule  along with the policy wording  form the insurance  contract.  
Mr and Mrs B have  said they believe the exclusion  should have  been  detailed alongside the 
endorsement confirming  the cover. Again, that isnt something I would expect to be included 
in the policy  schedule. That document exists to confirm the cover provided  buildings  and/or 
contents, any optional  cover selected, the policy limits and costs. The policy  
document/wording gives the detail of the policy and how it works,  including exclusions.
Neither the key facts  nor the schedule is designed  in isolation to set out the detail of the 
cover provided by the insurance policy. Both reference the policy wording and I consider that 
wording is clear about the limitation to the cover provided. 
Ref: DRN95304093In light of this I dont consider the documentation  provided by SoL was flawed, contradictory 
or misleading when  read as a whole,  as it was designed to be. I, therefore,  cant find that 
SoL acted  inappropriately when it informed Mr and Mrs B that it wouldnt be considering the 
damage to their swimming pool and terrace as part of the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject  my 
decision before  23 July 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9530409