K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  incorrectly  recorded a marker 
against him which is affecting the price of his car insurance policy. 
background
In July 2016, Mr C was accused  by a third-party  driver that hed hit her car whilst  driving  in 
slow-moving traffic.  He denied doing so but gave his insurance  details  and reported  the 
incident at the local police  station.  
A few days  later Mr C was contacted by Advantage as theyd received details of the incident. 
He explained  what had happened, and on investigating the matter Advantage confirmed that 
no further action  would  be taken. 
When Mr C next received his insurance  renewal quote it had increased substantially. He 
raised this with Advantage who said it had logged the incident  and agreed to remove it. The 
premium was recalculated  but Mr C was still asked to pay more than he had previously.
Mr C says that since then his car insurance premium has continued to increase and is 
substantially more than it used to be. He says that even price comparisons with other  
insurers are higher and believes this is because Advantage  hasnt removed  the incident 
marker. 
Advantage assured Mr C that the incident  had been  removed, and its renewal quotes have 
not factored  in the incident he refers to, or any other  claim. But Mr C has contacted  the 
Motor Insurance  Bureau (MIB) whove told him that whilst the incident wasnt  showing on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database, there was something on a database 
called IIL. MIB have  since  deleted that record. 
Mr C remained  unhappy and complained to our service. He told us he didnt believe 
Advantage had investigated his complaint properly as he was given an answer  over the 
phone after being told more investigation was required. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She was satisfied Advantage had 
demonstrated that no marker was recorded against Mr C on the CUE database. And 
Advantage had told her it doesnt use the IIL database when assessing a risk. Shed 
reviewed the calculations from Mr Cs renewals and there wasnt  anything to show  the 
premium had increased as a result of this incident,  or any other. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said this didnt explain why his premiums had increased so drastically 
since 2016.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to the incident in 2016, Mr C had paid approximately £327 for one year of car 
insurance. His 2016 renewal quote  was over £700  and was caused by the incorrect marker. 
Advantage recalculated the premium  and the new amount due was approximately  £477. And 
in 2017, Mr Cs renewal  quote had increased  to £525 which he was able to negotiate down  
Ref: DRN98272022to £415. In 2018 the renewal premium  offered  was £620, which  Mr C negotiated down to 
£456.
I can appreciate why Mr C feels that the increase is as a result of the incident  in July 2016,  
especially given that the MIB found  something logged on the IIL database. But Advantage 
has provided us with a breakdown of its calculations. And whilst I cant share  these details 
with Mr C due to their commercially sensitive nature, I am satisfied the policy  increase isnt 
down to this or any other incident/claim.  
Advantage has explained that since 2015 there had been an increase to insurance premium 
tax. In addition,  there have also been  changes in the way insurance  generally works which 
means there  have  been increases across the board  (for example, due to a change  in 
compensation discount percentage in personal injury claims). These are standard factors 
across the motor insurance  industry,  and something  Advantage  applies across  all its 
customers rather than just to Mr C. Advantage has also said Mr Cs age is also a factor 
impacting on the level of premium. 
I should explain that were not the industry  regulator and we dont regulate insurance pricing 
or tell an insurer how much it can charge for its policies. We take the view that an insurer 
must treat its customers fairly and in principle where  theyre doing this, insurers  will be 
entitled to charge what they feel they need  to in order to cover a risk and ultimately remain 
commercially profitable.
An insurer  will consider many different factors when deciding what  to charge for car 
insurance. Its essentially a matter of judgment, balancing risk against  the need  to compete 
with other  policies on offer. And it will review those  factors before offering a renewal quote. 
Prices can go up or down depending on what it thinks the risks are and those  risks might  
change year to year.  Each insurer will go about  that in its own way. We dont usually 
interfere unless we thought the pricing was unfair  in some way: for example, if there  were  
hidden charges which the consumer was only told about after taking out the policy,  or 
calculation errors because of an incorrect risk factor  being applied, but thats not the case  
here. 
From everything Ive seen  about  how Advantage calculated the price  each  year, Im satisfied 
Mr C has been treated fairly. I say this because his premium  breakdown shows its been 
calculated in line with Advantages  usual rating  factors and not the incident he complains of. 
Where there was originally an error Advantage put that right. I appreciate Mr C might  like to 
see the calculations  himself, but this is commercially  sensitive information  which  we wouldnt 
share with Mr C or any other consumer. I can assure Mr C that Ive thoroughly reviewed  the 
pricing information and am satisfied Advantage has treated  him fairly.
Ive not found  anything  to cause me concern  about  the way Advantage has dealt with Mr C, 
since putting right the original error.  He was advised by the complaint handler that they were 
waiting for further  information to finalise the investigation. Whilst on the call the information 
was received and so the handler  was able to confirm to Mr C that no claim had been logged 
against him. I dont  think this means Advantage hadnt considered the complaint  properly.   
Mr C has also raised a point that he shouldnt have  to renegotiate the price  down  every  year,  
and hes mentioned that on comparison  websites  he doesnt get as good price  as he thinks  
he should. Comparison  websites usually return a broad range of premiums from different 
financial firms  based on the same information that prospective policyholders  share. Not all 
policies offered will be the same and firms  rate risk factors differently. Some even target 
Ref: DRN98272023specific groups of consumers and may use varying discounts even once a policy  has been 
selected. 
Firms currently arent obliged to be the cheapest  in the market  and they have individual  
commercial strategies around  discounts to be offered and customer retention. The crux for 
deciding this complaint centres  on how Advantage calculated Mr Cs premium and whether it 
has been negatively  impacted by the erroneous marker. For the reasons given in this 
decision, Im satisfied Advantage removed the marker and recalculated  Mr Cs premium 
using the correct information.  While unfortunate that Mr C has paid more  at renewals, Im 
satisfied Advantage  has treated him fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9827202