K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance policy (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs M took out in May 1998.
The PPI was sold to Mrs M by a third party but FICL have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt respond so the complaint  has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy document  I think wouldve  been in use at the time of the sale.  It was 
a requirement within  this policy for Mrs M to be working a minimum of 16 hours per week if 
she wanted to claim  under the accident, sickness and unemployment  benefits.  These  were  
the main benefits  of the policy.
I think this term given  in the policy wouldve mattered to Mrs M as shes told us she was 
unemployed at the time of the sale. Mrs M has been consistent about  her employment status 
to us throughout her complaint. So I think I can rely on her testimony.  And I think  its very 
unlikely Mrs M would have evidence of her unemployment from many years  ago. 
This means  Mrs M wasnt able to claim under the accident, sickness or unemployment 
sections of the policy, which were the main benefits.  And if Mrs M had known this, I dont 
think she wouldve bought  the policy. I havent seen enough to suggest  she was given clear  
information on this. So, I think Mrs M has lost out because  of what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs M would have owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN99073512If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  interest  
on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when 
Mrs M wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9907351