K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a car he financed through a Conditional Sale Agreement with PSA 
Finance UK Limited (PSA) was defective. He would like the cost of repairs  refunded. And 
compensation for the time he was without the use of the car.
background
Mr B says he took out a Conditional Sale Agreement with PSA in November 2016. He says 
he has had a number  of issues with the car. The car didnt come with a wheel key or jack. 
And the headlights  needed replacing  and the battery  needed  constant  checking.
He says the main  problem  was a noise with the car that he had from when he first got it. He 
says this was identified as a problem  with the alternator that needed changing at a total cost 
to him of £3,000. He feels this problem  was present when he got the car and he would like 
the cost of this repair refunded .And compensation of £4,000 for the time he was without  the 
car whilst it was being repaired.
PSA said there was no evidence that the issue arose within  the first six months of having the 
car. The onus was therefore  on Mr B to show it was but he hadnt done  so. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found that whilst Mr B may not have been 
given a wheel key he could have contacted PSA about this sooner. And didnt seem  to have 
suffered any financial  loss as a result.  She found evidence  the car should have been 
supplied with a jack but felt this was most likely to have been an administrative mistake. She 
found the brake signal  switch problem Mr B had around two and a half months after having 
the car may have been a point of sale issue but had been successfully repaired. She had no 
evidence to show why the bulbs failed  and felt this may have been due to the high mileage 
Mr D had done. Similarly she found  no evidence that the battery had a fault that meant it 
needed to be replaced sooner than it had.
With regard to the alternator  which  was the main  cost that Mr B incurred she noted that the 
alternator belt was replaced in June  2018 but a new one was required in February 2019. As 
this issue arose more than six months  after Mr B got the car the onus was on Mr B to show 
the fault was present or developing at the point of sale for PSA to be liable  for this cost. But 
Mr B hadnt  done  this.
Finally she had no evidence to support Mr Bs claim that he had been without the use of his 
car for a substantial  period  of time.
In conclusion she felt the issues with the exception of the brake  signal switch,  which  had ben 
repaired, were wear and tear issues for which PSA was not responsible.
PSA accepted his view but Mr B didnt. He disputed the time PSA said the car had been in 
for repairs.  He said he had been  unable to get confirmation of what  has been  done to his 
car and felt this was to avoid any responsibility being taken for any issues.
Following on from  Mr Bs request for a final decision PSA wished the significant mileage 
undertaken to be noted-  over 50,000  miles in January 2019.  It didnt  feel it would have been 
possible to have achieved  this mileage had there been a fault present or developing at the 
point of sale. 
Ref: DRN92769522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B feels  strongly about his complaint and I do understand that. So I appreciate he is going  
to be disappointed as I have come to the same  conclusion  as our investigator.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr B has had some problems with his car. Ive noted  
that he took out a Conditional Sale Agreement on 7 November 2016 for a used car which  
was approximately  16 months old and with a mileage of 3,436  miles when he got it.
As the car wasnt new when Mr B got it, he might expect it to have some wear and tear, 
possibly previous repairs. And it might be reasonable to expect to have to deal with some 
issues  more so than with a new car.
Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose when sold. We usually say that if 
problems arise within the first six months the onus is on the business to investigate these. 
And if issues were present or developing at the point  of sale we would expect the business 
to resolve these. But we wouldnt expect a business  to be responsible for wear and tear 
issues.
When a problem arises  after six months  the onus is on the consumer to show that there  was 
a problem present  or developing at the point of sale for which  the business is responsible.
I can see from the invoices that Mr B has given us that he had work done   in February, 
March, July and November 2017. Whilst some  of these invoices fall within  six months of Mr 
B having  the car they are all for items that I would say  would be deemed  as wear and tear -
for example replacement  filters and headlights.  Its unfortunate that Mr B incurred these 
costs .But these arent items that would normally be seen as the responsibly  of the business 
to cover.  And Mr B hasnt  given us any evidence to suggest these were point of sale issues.
Mr B has mentioned he wasnt given a jack or wheel  keys that he felt were part of the sale. I 
can see that the jack is noted on the vehicle handover sheet. I cant  see that the wheel key is 
noted but spare wheel/saver/aerosol is. Mr B ticked all the boxes on this form and signed it 
on 9 November 2016. That would suggest to me he saw all the items included  on the list. I 
have no evidence to show Mr B didnt get what he signed for. So on that basis  I cant  
reasonably conclude that he didnt  get what he signed for. 
It seems  to me there are two main issues Mr B has had with the car. Firstly  the problem that 
required the brake signal switches replacing. As our investigator noted we havent seen a job 
sheet for that work. But from what Mr B and the business has told us it seems that repair 
was carried out. From customer notes that PSA supplied  it seems there was a delay in 
getting the relevant part but the work  was completed. 
As this issue  arose within the first six months  of Mr B having the car we would expect the 
business to resolve  the problem which I believe it did. We do usually  say its fair to allow one 
attempt to repair a problem. And as far as I am aware that problem was resolved. There is 
no evidence Mr B paid for this as this work isnt included in the list of invoice he sent us. It 
seems to me that PSA did all we would have expected it to do in this situation.
Ref: DRN92769523The second  issue  is the problem with the alternator.  I can see from what  Mr B told us the 
alternator belt was changed in June  2018.  Its not clear  to me but I dont believe that Mr B 
paid for this repair. It seems in January 2019 Mr B paid £568 for the alternator belt tensioner 
and belt to be replaced.  As I understand it the car broke down in February  2019 with the 
alternator being replaced again in March 2019 at a cost of £2,338.
Mr B has said he feels the problem should have  been dealt with under warranty so at no cost 
to him. I assume the June  2018 work  was done under warranty  and I cant  see why at that 
time the business  wouldnt have completed  all the necessary work  to resolve the problem.  
Its unfortunate if the further problems Mr B had were outside  of his warranty period
Mr B has driven a significant  number of miles in the car  over 50,000 miles  at January 
2019. I dont know  what the mileage was when Mr B had the belt changed in June 2018 but 
overall Mr B seems  to have driven a significant  number of miles. I dont think he would have 
been able to do so if there  had been a problem present or developing at the point of sale.
I can appreciate how frustrating this must have been for Mr B. And I share his view that job 
sheets from PSA for the work done under warranty would have been helpful   and we 
havent had them. 
But for PSA to be responsible for the cost of the alternator there would have to have been a 
problem present or developing at the point of sale. Although Mr B said he had a noise 
problem from when  he first got the car I havent seen any evidence  of that. 
The problem was first addressed  in June 2018 thats  more  than six months  after Mr B got the 
car. So unfortunately the onus is on him to show a point of sale issue. As he hasnt done so I 
cant reasonably  expect PSA to cover  the costs of replacing the alternator as Mr B would 
like. 
Mr B has also mentioned his losses when  he was without the car for a significant  period of 
time. I dont know exactly how long Mr B was without  his car. When repairs are needed 
some degree of inconvenience might be expected. And PSA has confirmed that under his 
contract Mr B wasnt eligible for a courtesy  car.
But for me to say PSA has to compensate Mr B for losses I would need evidence  of such 
losses. Mr B has shown  details of his earnings.  And I can see for some  dates he has 
highlighted he did earn less money. But from the information he has given us his earnings 
were variable  there are other  dates  that dont correlate to work on his car where his 
earning were similar to those he has highlighted.  So I cant  be sure any reduction in earnings 
is solely down to the time his car was being repaired.  So on that basis I dont think  I can 
reasonably expect PSA to compensate Mr B in the way he would like.
Ref: DRN92769524my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9276952