K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way in which TSB Bank  plc has administered  his account and 
treated him.
background
Mr M has an account with TSB.  On a number of occasions  he has been unable to make the 
payments he wanted to from the account because he didnt have enough money  in it. On 
these occasions  TSB has applied  charges to his account. Mr M is dissatisfied with this and a 
number of other things.  In short  he complains:
TSB had no proper basis for applying charges to his account  when he went into an 
unauthorised overdraft. He wants it to refund  all such charges that have been applied 
since 2015.
In any event, even  when there was, he thinks, enough money  in his account some  
direct debits  were declined. He also suggested  it cancelled one of his direct debits.
TSB supplied inaccurate information about  the money he had in his account. Making 
it hard for him to keep  on top of what money he had available  to spend.
TSB should have  offered him an interest free overdraft facility  to help him maintain 
his account in good order.
It is inappropriate to take charges from his account when his main form of income  is 
benefits. By doing so he thinks it did not take proper account of his disability.
TSB saw matters differently. Its stance was:
The charges  it applied were in line with the relevant  account  terms and conditions. It 
didnt agree it was obliged  to refund any of the charges. 
It pointed to a relevant  court  case  which it said meant Mr M had no basis for saying  
the charges were  too high or a penalty.
It had only declined  requests for payment where there was not enough  money in the 
account to cover  these. It thought it was entitled to do this. It did not accept  it had 
cancelled the direct debit Mr M complains  about.
The information it provided about  his balances was accurate.  In any event it was his 
responsibility to keep track of his own spending  and make  sure he had the money to 
pay for the things  he was buying.
It didnt agree it had an obligation to provide the overdraft facility  he wanted but he 
could apply for one should he wish to. 
It thought it was entitled to take charges from his account albeit that his main source 
of income was benefits.
Ref: DRN99828842It hadnt been aware, before now, that he might be experiencing financial difficulties. 
But if he was saying  now that he is having  money troubles, it would be prepared to 
look at what (if anything) it could do to help him.
Whilst it took the stance that it wasnt in the wrong, as a goodwill gesture, it agreed to 
refund £30 in returned items  fees.  
Dissatisfied with this response Mr M came  to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. She didnt agree she should uphold  it. In 
summary, she concluded the bank was entitled apply the charges. She didnt think TSB had 
declined to pay direct  debits where Mr Ms account was in credit.  Neither did she agree that 
it had cancelled the direct  debit  he complained about. She did not find that the account 
balance information  TSB provided was inaccurate. She pointed out we had no power  to 
make TSB offer him an overdraft. Neither  did she agree  that the bank acted inappropriately 
in using the money from his account  to pay the charges.
TSB accepted our investigators conclusions, Mr M did not. In summary he repeated  his 
position about why the charges  should not have been taken from his account. He then raised  
a new issue about  personal injury  that he suggested  had resulted from what  he thought the 
bank had done wrong. Plus he added he felt he had been discriminated against by TSB. 
Also, Mr M mentioned a separate decision he had had from this service. He suggested we 
needed to come to similar  conclusions as we had in that decision. Later on he then wrote to 
us to say The Banking Industry guidance is that banks should deal with such  requests 
sympathetically and positively. Do you think that your decision  reflects this that I am very 
concerned with? He asked that I consider this last point  too
Mr M asked  that an ombudsman take a look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I can see that Mr M has made a number  of detailed points in support of his complaint.  
Equally TSB had provided this service with a lot of detailed information. I have read and 
considered everything  that both Mr M and TSB have sent to this service.  Ive not responded 
in similar  detail. As an informal  dispute  resolution service, our role is to reach a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me 
to respond to every point  made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
charges
Mr M asks that TSB refund the charges that it has applied to his account when his account 
did not have sufficient money  in it to make the payments he wanted to make from it. Mr M 
appears to suggest  that the application of the fees has been  relentless and that they are too 
high. He asks for a refund of all such charges since 2015. 
Ref: DRN99828843TSB refuses  on the basis  that the fees have  been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Further  it points  to a court case  that in essence said such  charges 
were not unfair. 
Mr M accepted these terms and conditions  when he opened and used the account. As a 
starting point therefore, it seems fair and reasonable to me that TSB should be able to rely 
on them.  It appears it has only applied  the charges that the terms and conditions permit  it to 
charge.
The court case TSB has highlighted does support the stance it has taken about the fairness 
of the charges. 
Mr M has not said from 2015 he was having  money  troubles  that meant he was unable to 
avoid these charges.  Further,  from the information  I have seen during the relevant period the 
charges applied to his account seem to be less than £100 in total.  Looking  at the income he 
had in his account at the relevant time,  it does not seem the charges caused him to struggle 
financially.
Nothing I have  seen suggests  that TSB has not complied with relevant obligations in relation 
to these account charges. Nor have  I seen anything that suggests to me that TSB ought  to 
refund these charges on a fair and reasonable basis.
Taking all of the above into account whilst I appreciate Mr M is dissatisfied with being made 
to pay these charges,  I think  I have  no proper basis to say TSB must refund these charges.
direct debits
Mr M is upset because  he thinks  even when he has had enough money to pay his direct  
debits TSB declined to process them.
He talks about specific examples a direct debit  for his broadband and one for his insurance. 
Ive looked at these.
Mr M indicates that as far as he was aware, the balance of his account should have covered 
these direct debits. But what seems to have  happened here, is that he had other pending  
debits to come out of his account  at the time he checked his balance. So the balance  he 
saw,  did not take account of payments which he had agreed to make but had not yet been 
taken from his account. 
When these payments were subsequently, subtracted from the money he had in his account 
his balance went down.  This meant he just did not have enough money to cover the direct 
debits he talks about. 
Mr M tells us that TSB cancelled his direct  debit for his motor insurance. But TSBs records,  
which I have no reason to doubt  on this point show that the direct  debit remains active. This 
in turn suggests  that whatever has gone wrong  with these motor insurance payments, it is 
not down to TSB cancelling  the direct  debit.
We have explained  this all, in great detail, to Mr M already. Therefore I think  there is nothing 
to be gained by me repeating these points  again  in similar detail. But in summary,  for the 
Ref: DRN99828844reasons Ive set out above I dont  agree  TSB made mistakes in how it handled his direct 
debits.
It is possible that Mr Ms creditors  did charge  Mr M for missing his payments to them. But as 
I dont think TSB did anything wrong here,  it follows I dont say it must pay Mr M to 
compensate him for those  charges made by third parties.
inaccurate information about balances
A balance  is just a snapshot of the money a person has in their account  at anyone one time.  
What Mr M had to keep in mind  is that not all payments  come  out from an account instantly. 
This is not a fault on the part of TSB that is just a feature of the overall payments system. 
That does mean  though  that when checking  his balance he had to factor in that not all his 
payments had necessarily  come  out yet.
It follows  I cant fairly say TSB gave him incorrect information just because the balances  that 
Mr M saw at the times  he checked did not reflect payments he had made but which  had not 
yet been taken from his account
overdraft
Mr M indicates he would be in a better position  to manage his finances  if he had an overdraft 
for £100. TSB makes its own decisions about who it lends to and as part of that it has to 
make sure that the customer can afford  the debt. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr M applied for an overdraft. Or that TSB has had an 
opportunity to assess his situation to see if it agrees it would be appropriate to make an 
overdraft available  to him.
Rather, Mr M seems to suggest that TSB ought to have proactively  and without checking  if 
he could afford this, given  him an overdraft. But as I have explained above that is not 
something that I think TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have done.
For all of these reasons, I dont agree that it is fair and reasonable to uphold this part of the 
Mr Ms complaint.
welfare benefits
Mr M tells us that it is unlawful for TSB to take money from him to pay charges when that 
money comes from welfare  benefits he receives. He points  out that he relies  on his welfare  
benefits income and that he has a disability.
It is not the role of this service, to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats 
a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide  whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
TSB puts forward legal  arguments which it says support its approach.  Mr M has not said 
those arguments  are incorrect and explained  why that is so. He just rejects them.
As far as I am aware  there  is no regulation that prevents TSB taking charges from his 
account in these circumstances. Plus not all of the money coming into his account appeared 
to be solely  welfare benefits.
Ref: DRN99828845Mr M appears to suggest that it is not correct for TSB to take the charges from his welfare  
benefits because  he has a disability. I dont agree that just because Mr M has a disability this 
in itself, means TSB is not entitled  to use the money in his account to pay the charges he 
incurred. I am not aware of any regulation that says this.
Even if I am wrong about the regulation I mention above, on a fair and reasonable basis I 
see no reason, in the very individual circumstances  of this complaint,  why the income  Mr M 
had coming into his account ought not to be used to pay for the charges that relate his use of 
the account.
I also make  this observation. On the one hand Mr M wants TSB to take account  of his 
welfare benefits to agree  to an overdraft.  But on the other hand, he says it must not use 
those same welfare benefits to pay for charges  that come from his use of the account.  I think  
this is perhaps a rather inconsistent stance to take on this point.
new points
Mr M has raised new points in the course of his complaint about personal injury  which  he 
suggests he has experienced  due to the acts of the bank.  In addition he tells us that TSB 
has discriminated against him. These issues appear  to be new matters and have not been 
considered by TSB in its final response  to Mr M. It follows that I am unable  to look at these 
matters in this final decision.
previous complaint
This service has to look at each  individual complaint on its own merits. Mr M may have been 
awarded compensation by us in a separate complaint. But that does not mean that I 
therefore have  to come to the same conclusion  in this separate  individual complaint.
financial difficulties
Mr M may now be experiencing  financial difficulties, if that is so, I would expect  TSB to look 
into this if Mr M tells it that is the situation.  Or if there  is something about the way the 
account is run that ought to prompt TSB to take a closer look.
Mr M can play his part too. If he is struggling financially, I think  it is reasonable to suggest 
that he tell TSB that directly.
I would remind TSB,  Mr M has now told it he has a disability and he may not be able to 
access its financial hardship services  in the usual manner. If that is so Mr M may need TSB 
to make a reasonable adjustment to make  sure that he, as a disabled person, can use TSBs 
services as close as it is reasonably possible to get to the standard usually offered to non-
disabled person.
Mr M mentions industry guidance. The wording he quotes is most commonly  applied to the 
situation where someone is having  money troubles.  As I have mentioned above if this is the 
case for Mr M I would expect TSB to follow the industry guidance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Ref: DRN99828846Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9982884