K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that a motorbike that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement  
with Billing Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A new motorbike was supplied to Mr T under  a hire purchase agreement  with Billing Finance 
that he signed in August 2018. He returned the bike to the dealer in September  2018 
because of steering  vibrations, the bike losing power and the engine  getting too hot. The 
dealer examined  the bike and said that everything was within tolerance and it was fit for 
purpose. Mr T then complained to Billing  Finance but wasnt  satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. The bike was inspected by an independent expert in July 2019.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
inspection report indicated a fault with the bike so Mr T should be allowed to reject it. He 
recommended that Billing Finance should  pay Mr T his deposit and all of his monthly  rentals 
(all with interest), remove any adverse information  from Mr Ts credit file related to this 
dispute and pay him £75 compensation.
Billing Finance  has asked  for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Billing Finance,  as the supplier of the motorbike, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age and mileage  of the bike and the price  that was paid for it. The bike that was supplied to 
Mr T was new and I consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free 
from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality  also covers  durability  which means that the 
components within the bike must be durable  and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number of factors. 
The motorbike was supplied  to Mr T in August 2018.  He complained to the dealer about a 
number of issues with the bike the following month  and said that he wanted to reject  it. He 
then complained to Billing Finance about those issues  a month  after the bike was supplied to 
him and said that he wanted to reject it. 
The dealer  said that it had tested  the bike and it wasnt faulty  but it offered to take the 
screen off and refund to Mr T the money that hed paid for it to try to improve the bikes  
handling.
Billing Finance  arranged  for the bike to be inspected by an independent expert in July 2019. 
The inspection report said that the bikes mileage was 235 miles and concluded that:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude the motorcycle 
displayed no signs of overheating throughout our 21-mile  road test.
The vehicle however did display what we would consider to be a flat spot when 
accelerating from approximately 30-mph.
Ref: DRN93131162We would  recommend possible adjustment to the fuel system which may rectify the 
issue; however there was also the possibility that the motorcycle  still requires to be 
run-in as the motorcycle has only covered  very little mileage.
The owner's handbook  should be consulted to confirm  the running-in procedure. 
We would  also recommend that further investigation is carried  out to the wobbling  
which we would consider is due to fitment of the tall front screen  to the handlebars  
with the front screen  being a genuine Peugeot optional extra  and noted to be 
secure.
Mr T returned the bike to the dealer about  two weeks  after it was supplied  to him. Between  
August 2018,  when  the bike was supplied to him, and July 2019, when the bike was 
inspected by the independent expert, Mr T had only used  it to drive 235 miles because  of the 
issues with it. The inspection report said that the bike had a flat spot and that the 
wobbling required further investigation.
Although the evidence  is finely  balanced and the independent report  doesnt conclusively 
say that there are faults with the bike, I consider it to be more  likely than not that the bike 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T. I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances for Mr T to be allowed to reject the bike.  So I find that 
Billing Finance  should end the hire purchase  agreement and arrange to collect  the bike from 
him. 
The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr T made a £299  advance cash  payment  for the 
bike and payments of £150 and £149  are also shown on the order form. I find that Billing 
Finance should  refund  to Mr T the advance payment that he made  for the bike and the 
monthly payments  that hes made under  the agreement (all with interest). I understand that 
Mr T has continued  to make those monthly payments  so theres no reason for Billing 
Finance to have  recorded any adverse information  about the agreement  on his credit file. 
But if it has done so, it should ensure that any such  information is removed. These events 
have caused Mr T distress and inconvenience. I find that Billing Finance should also pay £75 
to Mr T to compensate him for that distress  and inconvenience.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. I order Billing Finance 
Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the motorbike to be 
collected from Mr T  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr T the advance  payment  of £299 that he made for the bike.
3. Refund to Mr T all of the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the agreement  is recorded on 
Mr Ts credit file.
Ref: DRN931311636. Pay £75 to Mr T to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that 
hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Billing  Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 4 above. Billing Finance must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9313116