K821x#15complaint
Mr G compl ains that NewDay Ltd initially refunded  £490 .13 to his account  after he asked it 
to do a charge back but a few months  later it then debited more than this from his account. 
He also complains that NewDay Ltd placed  him on hold and said it would call him back but 
didnt do so.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I wasnt proposing to uphold  Mr Gs complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision.
NewDay responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing  to add. Mr G also 
responded to my provisional decision.  He reiterated  his concerns that NewDay should 
honour the provision  in his credit card statement  that says if you purchase any items of 
goods or any services costing between £100 and £30,000  unde r this agree ment  you may 
have a claim against us as well as the supplier, if, for example, the goods fail to arrive or 
are not of satisfactory quality.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new or further  information for my consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. I realise this is not 
the outcome Mr G had hoped for but it brings  to an end what  we, as an informal dispute  
resolution service, can do to help him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional  decision
complain t
Mr G compl ains that NewDay Ltd initially refunded £490 .13 to his account  after he asked it to do a 
charge back but a few months later it then debited more than this from his account. He also complains 
that NewDay Ltd placed  him on hold and said it would call him back but didnt do so.
background
Ref: DRN98426392In May 2018 Mr G booked an oversea s hotel using his NewD ay credit card. It cost €560 - this 
was £490.13 when conve rted into sterli ng. The hotel room  was booked  and paid for through an 
online bookin g agent.
Mr Gs flights were  chang ed and this meant he arrived oversea s much later than he originally 
expected. A relative let the hotel know hed be arrivi ng late but the hotel said check  in was only 
betwe en 4pm-7pm and it would nt allow a late check-i n. When he arrive d at the hotel the next day he 
found the gate was padlocked and he wouldnt have been  able to walk up the dirt road to access  it due 
to his disab ility.
Mr G says he only saw the bookin g summa ry after he returned to the UK and had he seen  this he 
wouldnt have  booked the hotel due to his disab ility. Mr G contacted  the propr ietor but told him to 
contact the bookin g agent and she then hung up. The bookin g agent was also unable to help so he 
asked NewDay for help.
In its final response letter NewDay confi rmed  itd raised  a charge back for Mr G and credited  his 
account. However,  it later re-debit ed his account when the mercha nt challen ged the charg eback. 
NewD ay said the dispute was about the quality of services  and the scheme  rules didnt allow it to 
recover funds in these circum stances. It apolog ised for not returning Mr Gs call. It upheld this part 
of his complaint  and credited £15 to his account.
Mr G isnt happy with NewDay s response. He thinks NewD ay should  have helped him because his 
credit card agreement says if you purchase any items of goods  or any services  costing between 
£100 and £30,000 unde r this agree ment you may have a claim against us as well as the supplier, if, 
for example the goods fail to arrive or are not of satisfactory quality  or the suppl ier has made  a 
representati on you relied on about the goods which was not accurate".
He referred his complaint  to our service. Our investigator didnt recommend that his compl aint 
should be upheld. He explained that our role is to look at whether his chargeback  request was 
processed correctl y by NewDay.
Our investigator  didnt think Mr G could say that hed failed to receive goods or services or that the 
goods or servic es were nt of satisfa ctory quality because he never stayed at the hotel.  And the 
investigator didnt think Mr G had provided  any evidence that the hotel had been misrepresented.
Our adjudicator thought NewDay had treated him fairly  - itd raised a charg eback for him and 
credi ted £490.13 to his accou nt but it later re-debited  his credit card account  when the chargeback 
was challenged by the merchant.
In terms of NewDay debiti ng his account by more  than the original cost of the hotel booking,  our 
investigator explained that this was due to changes in the euro/GBP exchange rate. He noted  that 
NewDay had agree d to refund this amount so he thought this was fair.
Mr G was unha ppy with the investiga tors view. He expla ined why the hotel wasnt satisfactory or 
as describe d. Ive summarised his concern s and the investi gators response in italics:
   he provid ed a third party review of the hotel which stated that the room  didnt have a view 
and the break fast wasnt excepti onal as advert ised. Our investi gator looke d at other 
revie ws and noted  they were a mixtu re of positive and negative . Our investi gator 
explained that negative revie ws from a third party aren't suffici ent to justify a chargeba ck 
request.
   he told us he didnt get the informat ion about the hotels chec k in times until after hed 
returned to the UK. Our  investi gator thought it unusual  for hotel detail s to be sent after the 
date of the proposed  stay. The investig ator could n't say that Mr G was only told about  the 
restri cted chec k in times after he returne d beca use the emai l from the booking agent was a 
forward ed email and it didn't  show the original  date it was sent. As the hotel indicated its 
Ref: DRN98426393chec k in times in the booki ng emai l the investig ator didn't think it had done anyth ing wrong  
by restricting  access outside those times.
   he told the hotel his mobili ty was limited - and he only discovered that access to the hotel 
was via a dirt road when  he was unable to access due to his disability when he arrived. Our 
investig ator didn't think the informatio n he'd provided to the hotel  about his limited mobi lity 
was enough  for the hotel to know he wouldn't be able to go up the dirt road.
   he says photos on the hotel booki ng website are differen t to the actual hotel.   Our 
investig ator didn't agree and he could n't see that the dirt road had been  shown  on the 
websi te photos.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence  and argument s to decide whats fair and 
reaso nable in the circumsta nces of this complai nt.
I must explain that my role isnt to look at Mr Gs underly ing conc erns about the hotel he 
booked . Instead , my role is limited to looking at whether NewD ay treated Mr G fairly when 
he asked it to help him.
There are gene rally two routes available to a customer seek ing to recover  a payme nt made on a 
credi t card.  Firstly they can make a claim under section 75 of the Consu mer Cred it Act (Act) or they 
can ask the financial business concerned  to make a charge back  request. In Mr Gs case, NewDay 
attempte d a charge back  for him and it didnt make a section  75 claim.
Ive there fore thought about whethe r NewDay should have broug ht a section 75 claim.
sectio n 75
Section 75 broadly provides that if certai n condition s are met, a provi der of credi t is jointly  and 
sever ally liable for a breach of contract or misre present ation by the suppl ier. The wording Mr G 
has referre d us to in his credi t card agreement is referri ng to section 75.
I dont think section  75 was available to Mr G. Firstly Im not persuaded that there was a breach of 
contra ct or misrepresen tation here. I dont consi der it necessary to dwell on this aspect because 
there s another  reason  why I dont  think a claim  under section 75 was available in Mr Gs 
circumstan ces - and without which it would nt be possi ble for NewDay to bring this type of claim.
For there to be a valid section 75 claim there needs to be what is know n as a debtor- credito r-
suppl ier relationship between  the parties. Here, the debtor would be Mr G, the suppli er is the 
hotel and the credito r, NewDay.
Mr G booked his hotel throu gh an online bookin g agent to whom he made the paym ent. This 
broke the debtor-creditor-supp lier relati onship beca use the Act requires  that paymen t for goods 
or servic es has to be made directly to the suppl ier. Here the payment was made to the third 
party bookin g websi te. The booking website is not the suppl ier as it acts as an intermedi ary. 
The hotel  is the suppl ier as it is providing the accommodation.
The debtor-creditor-su pplier chain required by the Act isnt discre tionary. Without it, a credit card 
provid er is entitled to decline a claim.  The involvement of the third party  booking websi te, to which 
the credi t card payment  was made , broke this debtor-credi t-suppl ier relationship so I   dont think it 
treated Mr G unfairly by not brining a section 75 claim for him.
chargeback
Ref: DRN98426394Chargeback is a process provi ded by Mr Gs card scheme - in this case  Master Card. It allows 
customers to ask for a transacti on to be rever sed in a numbe r of situations including where goods 
or servic es arent provide d, where goods or servi ces are defecti ve or where goods or servic es 
arent as described.
There's no automatic right to a charg eback. Nor is charge back a guara nteed method of getting a 
refund because chargeba cks may be defended by merchants.  If a financial  business  thinks that a 
claim won't be successful,  it doesnt have to raise a charg eback but where theres a reasonable 
chance of success wed expect a financial business to bring a chargeba ck.
I should  also explain that it isnt NewDay that decides wheth er or not a charge back is succe ssful. 
Thats a decision made by Mastercard  and not someth ing    I can consider here.  If Mastercard 
decides that the charge back  has been succe ssfull y defended by the merchant,  then the business 
must re-deb it the amount from the customer s accou nt. I   can only consider  NewDay s actions in 
reques ting the charge back here.
The inform ation  Ive seen shows that NewD ay initiated a charg eback  for Mr G on the basis that he 
never recei ved the hotel  servic es - and Ive seen that Mr G signed  NewDa ys declarat ion 
confirmi ng this. NewDay initially credi ted his account as Id expe ct it to but then debited his 
account in Septemb er 2018  when the merchant challenged the chargeback. I cant say that 
NewDay treated him unfairly because  a financial business isnt obliged to continue with a 
charge back in circumstances where the charge back has been defended by a merchant.
NewDay s notes show the charge back was defended by the merchant because Mr G agreed to the 
merch ants booking terms and condi tions and these detail ed the hotel s check- in times. NewDay said 
in its final response letter that it there fore thoug ht Mr Gs dispute was about the quality of the hotel 
and this wasnt cove red by Mastercard s scheme rules.
I dont agree. I think Mastercards rules do allow a charge back to be made  where goods or servic es 
are defective  or where goods or servi ces arent provided as descri bed  but I cant say that Mr G lost 
out because  of this. Ill explai n why.
If NewDay had raised a charge back  for Mr G on the basis that the hotel room  or services  were  
defective I think its more  likely than not that there was no reasonab le prospec t of the chargeback 
succe eding and that it would have been defended by the merchant. I say this because, as the 
investigator alrea dy expla ined, I dont  think  Mr G can say the hotel room  or the services  were 
defective when he never stayed there.
The inform ation  Ive seen shows that he didnt stay at the hotel  beca use he wasnt able to check-in 
within the hotels stated check-in times. I appreciate this was due to his flight s being changed and I 
sympathise. Howeve r, I think the bookin g confir mation made clear that the chec k in times were 
restricted and Im not persuaded that he only recei ved the booking confirmat ion detaili ng the check-in 
times until after he returned to the UK.
Mr G also thinks the hotel  wasn t as descri bed by the bookin g agent because  the approach wasnt 
suitable due to his disability and beca use the photos  on the website arent the same as when  he 
arrived at the hotel.
I appreciate it  must have been disappo inting  for him to find the hotel wasnt suitable  due to his 
disability but he found this out the day after hed failed to check-in by the stated times so Im not 
persuaded that the hotel  was wrong to restri ct access after this. If Im wrong  on this, I havent in any 
event seen  anythi ng to suggest the hotel was advertised by the bookin g agent as accessibl e. I 
appreciate Mr G says he told the hotel he required a bath because he couldnt shower and he asked 
for a downstai rs room beca use he couldn 't carry luggage upstai rs but I agree with the investigator that 
this would nt be enough for the hotel to know he wouldnt be able to get up the unpaved  road.
Ref: DRN98426395The photos on the website show the hotel and its grounds. The unpaved  road leading up to the hotel 
isnt show n in the photos  and as I havent seen anything to suggest that the hotel was described  by 
the bookin g agent as suitable for those with restri cted mobi lity or that Mr G made his particular  
mobi lity issues known , I cant agree that the hotel  wasnt as descri bed by the booking agen t. 
Ive already explained above that a charge back isnt a consum er right and before agreei ng to do a 
charge back a card issuer is entitled to take into account whethe r it has a reasonab le chance of 
success. For the reasons  given  above I   cant say that Mr G lost out as a resul t of NewDay not 
initiating a charg eback on the basis that the hotel was defective or that it wasnt as descri bed because  
I think  it had little chance  of success.  I therefore think NewDay treated him fairly but I appreciat e he 
will be disappoi nted by my decision.
NewDay debited Mr Gs account by £500.78 in early Septembe r 2018 . I appreciate this was for more  
than the cost of the origin al booki ng. NewD ay explained this was due to changes in exchan ge rates. I 
can see that NewDay subs equently refunded this difference so I think this was fair. And I also think 
the £15 compensat ion offered by NewDay for its failure to return 
Mr Gs call is fair and reason able.
my provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am not intending to uphold this complaint  unless I receive further 
information from the parties that causes  me to change my opinion.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9842639