K820x#14complaint
Mr V has complained about the decision by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) to 
decline a claim under his landlord insurance  policy for storm damage to a roof. 
background
Mr V made a claim to RSA, saying that the flat roof on the extension to the property  he 
rented out had become  damaged following a storm and was letting in water.
RSA arranged for a surveyor to visit the property. It subsequently declined the claim. It said 
there had been  no storm on the day the damage was supposed to have  occurred. It 
furthermore said that the damage had occurred gradually and was due to wear and tear. 
While it therefore wouldnt accept a claim for damage to the roof, it nonetheless agreed to 
accept a claim for accidental damage in respect of the interior  of the property which  had 
suffered due to the leak.
Mr V was unhappy at RSAs decision. He referred his complaint  to us. He said that a damp 
survey and valuation  survey undertaken when he bought the property in 2015 had showed 
no problems with the roof at that time.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. While  he was 
satisfied that there had been storm conditions at around the time of Mr Vs claim, he 
considered it had been fair for RSA to say this hadnt been the cause of the damage and to 
therefore decline the claim.
Mr V didnt accept the investigators findings. He said the surveyor who attended his property 
had confirmed the damage was storm-related and had told Mr V that his report had 
subsequently been changed by another party.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why. 
The policy provides cover for loss or damage  caused by a storm. The policy doesnt define 
storm. But I can see from weather reports  that, a few days before Mr V made  his claim, the 
area in which  his property is situated suffered 11mm of rainfall in an hour and 31mm  of 
rainfall in a 24-hour period. I think it reasonable to say that heavy rainfall  of this nature 
constitutes a wet storm.
However, while I consider  that a storm took place, Mr Vs claim is only valid if the damage to 
his roof was mainly  caused by that storm.
Mr V has provided surveys from 2015 which record that the roof at that time was in 
average condition and the property had no issues of damp. He says RSAs surveyor  
confirmed to him that in his opinion the damage  was storm-related and that the surveyors  
report was subsequently changed but I havent seen  any evidence  to that effect.  The 
surveyor noted that the roof had failed in three places.  After considering the surveyors 
Ref: DRN97394912report and photos  of the property, RSAs loss adjuster  concluded that the roof had probably 
been diminishing over time and hadnt properly been  maintained. Mr V has confirmed he 
hadnt carried out any work to the roof since the time of the 2015  surveys.
Having considered all the evidence, including  the quote by Mr Vs builder which outlined the 
extensive repairs which were necessary to the roof, I consider it was reasonable for RSA to 
say that the roof was suffering from wear  and tear through lack of maintenance. While the 
storm may have highlighted the defects in the roof, it was the poor existing state of the roof, 
rather than the storm,  which caused the roof to need repair.  I therefore  consider it was fair 
for RSA to decline the claim  for storm damage to the roof.
RSA has nonetheless agreed  to provide cover under the accidental damage  section of the 
policy for the internal damage caused by the ingress of water. I think  this was fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9739491