K820x#14Complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2000. Mr S paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his mortgage payments in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr S, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
I can see Halifax originally gave Mr S a quote  for a mortgage without  PPI, so it looks  like it 
wouldve been clear  this was a possibility.  The mortgage application had a section  for PPI, 
which just said it was something Halifax recommended customers thought  about.  It gave  an 
overview of what the policy was for and said Halifax could give more information if the 
customer wanted. Then there was a box Mr S could sign if he wanted PPI, or which  could be 
left blank if he didnt  want it. Mr S signed for the policy, and signed the application  as a 
whole to confirm  what was on it.
Mr S also signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI. This was done separately 
to applying for the mortgage itself. And the policys cost was set out separately to the 
mortgages cost,  and not as something that was necessarily included. Ive not seen any 
evidence which shows that the PPI was displayed as anything  other than an optional extra. 
And Ive not seen  any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from the time. So while 
I dont doubt that Mr S has given us his best recollections, I need to decide  whats  most likely  
to have happened based on all the evidence I have. And from what  Ive seen, it looks like it 
wouldve been clear  that Mr S had a choice about  buying PPI, and that he chose to take it at 
the time.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S, so they had to check  it was right for him. And based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For example, it looks like 
Mr S was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main  exclusions or 
limitations. The PPI covered Mr S far more comprehensively than his work benefits,  and it 
wouldve paid out on top of them.
Ref: DRN98363312I understand Mr S had savings, but without  PPI those wouldve been  needed  to cover all his 
living costs  once his work  benefits ran out  not just the mortgage. And they wouldve only 
lasted so long when needed to cover his full income. Again, I think the PPI offered him more 
comprehensive cover  in his situation. And the PPI meant Mr S could protect his savings and 
use them  for other things,  instead of having  to sacrifice one asset to cover  another if he was 
off sick or lost his job. Further,  the mortgage  was a significant, long-term commitment, and 
there was no guarantee that Mr S wouldve still had his savings or the means to keep up 
overpayments in the many years  to come. And ultimately,  if Mr S fell behind on his mortgage 
payments he couldve  lost his home. So overall,  it looks like the PPI couldve really been  
useful for him in protecting his home and providing  some peace of mind.  
The cost of the policy was set out clearly when Mr S applied for it. So I think  Mr S wouldve  
understood how much he would need  to pay for PPI if he chose it.
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover.  But 
as I said above,  Mr S doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of those things. 
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9836331