K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey National, mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mr B. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2003 to cover  a loan. Santander sold Mr B 
the policy when  he applied for the loan during a meeting.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Santander disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. When I looked at the case  I 
reached a different view to that of the adjudicator and thought the complaint should not be 
upheld. So I set out my thinking in a provisional decision as follows:  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
The sale took place  more than 15 years ago and there are no documents surviving  
from the sale of the PPI. Theres no record of what was said in the meeting. I also 
think its quite possible Mr Bs memories,  of exactly what happened so long ago, will 
have faded. Ive borne in mind these  difficulties in the evidence  when considering the 
case and trying to reach a fair decision.  
My current  view is that the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
The adjudicator said Santander hadnt  clearly set out the costs of the PPI, and that 
Mr B wouldnt have  taken the PPI if hed had better information. However, I dont 
agree with that view. Ive looked at the sample loan agreement that Santander has 
sent us. I think that form of agreement,  or one very similar to it, is likely to have been 
used for this loan. And I think it sets out the costs  reasonably clearly.  It sets out the 
monthly costs of the loan payments and the PPI premiums, both separately  and 
combined. And Ive no reason to doubt  that Santander will have put the correct  
figures into Mr Bs agreement. So I think Mr B would have known how much the PPI 
would cost. And I think it would have  been  clear that PPI was being  proposed  as part 
of the agreement. 
From what  the ombudsman service knows about  Santanders processes, in sales  
such as this, its likely the PPI was presented to Mr B as a choice. In particular, 
Santander has sent us an example of a loan application form which it says was in 
use around the time Mr B took out his loan.  It included  boxes  for the customer  to 
indicate whether  or not the he wanted PPI. So I think Mr B probably completed a 
form of that sort and agreed to have PPI, knowing he had a choice - even if 
understandably he doesnt  recall  this now, many years later. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  The PPI could have helped  
meet the loan payments  for a period much  longer  than Mr Bs employer sick pay, and 
would have paid out on top of that or of any redundancy payment he might  have got 
Ref: DRN96969342if hed lost his job. And it would have meant  Mr B wouldnt need to fall back  on other 
resources so soon,  such as selling his motorbike  (which  hes said was a possibility). 
Hes not mentioned any savings he could have  used. So the PPI was potentially  
useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant  see any other reason why 
the recommendation was unsuitable.
Also it doesnt look like hed have been  affected  by any of the significant exclusions 
in the policy. So even if Mr B wasnt given all the information about  the PPI that he 
should have been, which is possible, on balance I think he would still have decided to 
have it anyway.
I asked for comments and further evidence that Santander or Mr B might have. Mr Bs 
representatives said they had nothing further to add. Santander didnt make further 
comments. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9696934