K821x#15complaint
Miss W has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable Safety Net facility  in December 2015. Miss W 
also says that she struggled to repay  her loans and had to borrow  other money to cover her 
expenses. Finally she says SNC trapped her in a debt spiral.  
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  September  
2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Miss W told us she agreed 
with the provisional  decision, the only thing she did say was that she repaid the outstanding 
balance owed to SNC  in August 2019.  As far as I can tell SNC hasnt responded to the 
provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss W nor SNC had anything further to add, I see no reason  to depart from the 
findings that I reached in the provisional  decision. Therefore, based on everything Ive seen, 
I still think, for the reasons  Ive outlined in the provisional decision that SNC shouldnt have 
allowed Miss W to continue  to draw down funds  after 15 July 2016. 
what SNC  should do to put things  right
Miss W has told us that she has repaid the outstanding balance with SNC,  so when SNC are 
putting things  right for Miss W it needs  to take into account all repayments  she has made,  to 
date when working out the below. 
Ref: DRN93330102To put things right for Miss W, SNC  should;
If an outstanding  balance remains then SNC should remove  all the unpaid  interest  
and charges applied to the outstanding balance. SNC should  then re-work the facility 
as if the entire interest element of each payment went towards the current 
outstanding balance from 15 July 2016.  But importantly, SNC needs  to make sure 
that Miss W doesnt  repay more than the principal amount she borrowed.  
If, after the account rework Miss W has already paid enough  to fully repay the 
outstanding principal sum then any overpayment should be refunded  to her with 8% 
simple interest a year from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement
However, if there is currently no outstanding balance due. Then SNC needs to refund 
Miss W any interest, fees and charged  on drawdowns from 15 July 2016. To this 
refund it also needs to refund  8% simple interest   a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ws credit file 15 July 2016.
HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above, an outstanding balance remains then Miss W and SNC should try 
and come to a mutually agreeable  repayment plan in order  to repay any outstanding 
principal. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Miss Ws 
complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Miss W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93330103EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss W has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited  (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC))  
irresponsibly provided  her with an unaffordable Safety Net facility in December  2015.  Miss W also 
says, that she struggled to repay her loans  and had to borrow other money to cover her expenses. 
Finally she says SNC trapped her in a debt spiral. 
background
Miss W approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in December 2015. This was a running credit 
account where  a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would  be 
deposited into their bank account  once their account  balance fell below  a safety net amount of the 
customers choosing. This facility was not a payday loan. 
Miss W was initially given  a facility with a £200 credit limit in December  2015.  Her limit was then 
increased to £230 in February 2016, £290 in March  and finally  £380 in April 2016.
 
It then seems that Miss W had some problems repaying  her facility, and she entered into a repayment 
plan in order  to repay her outstanding balance. After  the repayment plan finished, SNC  allowed  Miss 
W to again  borrow up to her credit limit. Based on the statement of account  provided by SNC Miss W 
still has an outstanding  balance on the facility. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Miss Ws complaint. He thought the checks SNC carried out were 
proportionate, and based on the information it saw he didnt  think that SNC was wrong to have 
provided the facility or the credit limit increases. He also didnt think SNC  had made an error by 
allowing Miss W to borrow back  up to her limit after shed repaid her balance, following the payment 
arrangement. 
Miss W didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings. She told us that it was clear  from her bank 
statement she couldnt afford the facility. And each  month she was repaying nearly  £500 to SNC, 
which was more than half her income  at the time.  And even after her repayment plan had finished, 
she was still in a precarious  financial situation which included a change in circumstances in 2016, 
which meant her income was significantly  reduced. 
No agreement could be reached,  so the case  has been passed to me for a final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im intending to partly uphold  Miss 
Ws complaint. And Ive explained below the reasons  for my decision.
the relevant regulations in place at the time Miss W was given her Safety Net facility  
I think  it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Miss W this facility  when it was 
regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA). And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the 
time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of 
rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the commitments  under the 
regulated credit agreement to adversely impact  the customers  financial situation as well as the 
Ref: DRN93330104ability of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated  credit 
agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement  (like Miss Ws facility),  to 
make payments within a reasonable  period.
CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in mind  when 
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer 
wouldve been  able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely 
impacting on their financial situation. This meant the lender had to gather enough information so that 
it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender could 
take into account  before  agreeing to lend.  The key thing was that it required a lenders  checks  to be 
proportionate. And any checks had to take into account a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Ive kept all this in mind  when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to do before  agreeing to 
Miss Ws Safety  Net facility.  As explained, Miss W was given what  was an open-ended credit  facility. 
So overall I think  that this means the checks SNC  carried out had to provide  enough for it to be able 
to understand whether Miss W would  be able to both service and then repay her facility within a 
reasonable period of time.
SNC says it reviewed Miss Ws bank transaction data for the 90 days prior to the facility  being 
approved. And having  looked at these bank  statements, it was satisfied Miss W wasnt experiencing  
any financial  difficulty and so she could  afford to repay  her facility within  a reasonable period  of time. 
SNC then carried out credit checks. Ive taken a look at the information that SNC has provided  us 
from the credit reference  agency, and there doesnt appear  to be anything in those results which  
wouldve led SNC to automatically decline  the facility. And Ive not seen anything in the results, to 
have prompted SNC to have asked Miss W further questions  about her circumstances. For example,  
the information SNC gathered suggested  that Miss W wasnt insolvent, had no County Court 
Judgements nor any new defaults within the last two years. 
Overall, SNC believed, based on the checks it had carried out that Miss W had sufficient  disposable  
income to be able to afford the repayments  on her credit facility of £200 as well on the increased 
credit limits it provided. 
As Ive explained above, Miss W wasnt given a payday loan where she had to repay  all of what  she 
borrowed plus the interest due when she next got paid. Miss W was given  a facility where there was 
an expectation that shed  repay what she borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable  period of 
time. CONC doesnt  set out what  a reasonable period of time is. So I think  its important to note that a 
reasonable period of time will always be dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. But 
Ref: DRN93330105at the start of the facility the minimum payment  Miss W wouldve been expected to make was around 
£20 per month. 
Equally Miss W wasnt contractually obliged  to completely repay the facility  in full when she next got 
paid and the amount of interest  shed  have  to pay was capped. So I dont agree  it was unaffordable  
when it was first given  to her, indeed, based on the information SNC saw, the facility appeared 
affordable. 
Although the facility may have appeared affordable to Miss W, I do have some concerns with the way 
SNC has for example classified all funds credited into Miss Ws account as income.  However, I do 
think SNCs checks were proportionate when granting the facility. And the checks that it carried  out, 
showed it that Miss W was likely to be in a position  to afford the facility,  but only if Miss W repaid this 
facility over a reasonable period of time. 
It seems the first deposit into Miss Ws account occurred, at the end of December 2015,  and normally 
wed expect to see SNCs  read only bank statements  for the 90 day period leading  up to the facility 
being granted.  It says it does  this in order to understand how Miss W would  normally spend her funds. 
However, here, SNC has only provided  me with approximately seven weeks of statements  and it isnt 
entirely clear why in this case.
But I have reviewed  the statements  for the period  of time that I have. In November 2015 Miss W 
received credits into her account of £2,249.81  but only £1,468  was her actual salary. Other sources 
of income includes cashback websites, a payment for what appears to be switching her current 
account and what appears to be an incoming credit from a credit card company. So Miss Ws actual 
monthly income was potentially not as high as SNC  believed. 
And in December  she received credits of £2,156. But, again her income is only around £1,100. But 
this month the addition  funds are appear to be made up from a refund from her water company and 
other credits from other accounts.  So again, SNC was on notice that Miss Ws income maybe was not 
as high as it first appeared. 
At this point in time,  giving what SNC  has provided me, I think it was just about reasonable for it to 
believe that Miss W would be able to make her repayments over a reasonable period of time.  The 
reason I say this, is because  based on what Ive seen, Miss W did have some other credit  
commitments, including what appears to be a mobile  phone bill, credit cards and a couple of 
payments to a debt collectors.  But I think, given  the low monthly  repayment she couldve  made  to 
SNC I think it was just about reasonable for SNC  to have approved the facility.   
Ive thought about what Miss W has told us about her situation at the time. But many  of the comments 
shes raised about her financial position seem to have  occurred after the facility was approved,  and so 
wouldnt have been visible  to SNC when  the facility was initially  granted. And while SNC  did have an 
obligation to monitor the facility (which I will come on to in the next section)  I dont think  there was 
anything in what it saw leading up to it approving the facility that shouldve given them cause for 
concern. 
So, overall,  I think Miss Ws bank statements, in the period leading  up to the facility being approved, 
showed that she had enough disposable income  to both service and repay the facility within  a 
reasonable period of time. 
monitoring the facility 
Even though  I think it was reasonable for SNC to provide Miss W with the facility that doesnt mean  
that it hasnt  done anything wrong. I do think it was wrong to have allowed  Miss W to continue to 
drawdown on the account after 15 July 2016.
As Ive explained above SNC needed to carry out reasonable checks before the facility was approved, 
but it didnt then have to carry out an additional affordability assessment each time Miss W borrowed  
Ref: DRN93330106money. But it was required  to carry out an assessment  each time Miss Ws credit limit increased  and it 
also had to monitor  Miss Ws repayment record to look for signs of financial difficulties. So in effect it 
had to monitor  how Miss W was using  the facility. 
Having reviewed  the same information that SNC saw, I think there was enough information to not 
have allowed Miss W to continue to drawdown  up to 15 July 2016.   And Ive explained below, why by 
now I think  there were  signs that Miss W wasnt using  the facility in a sustainable manner.
To explain why I dont  think  Miss W was using  the facility sustainably, Ive considered the relationship 
between when repayments  were made to SNC, the value  of those payments and then when Miss W 
returned for further borrowing. Ive thought  about  these  points,  because  the checks  SNC carried  out 
worked on the basis that Miss W would repay what she borrowed within a reasonable  period of time. 
And I think looking  at this relationship,  shows that by July 2016 SNC ought to have seen enough  to be 
concerned with how Miss W was using  her facility, and have prevented her from taking any further 
drawdowns. 
And after looking  at the pattern of repayments, I can see that by July 2016 a pattern had emerged. 
Shortly after Miss W received her salary  (around the middle of the month) SNC took a payment which 
either cleared the outstanding  balance or reduced it significantly.  
However, in all of these  instances, within  a matter of days, and sometimes hours (as was the case in 
April and May), Miss W return for further borrowing either up to, or close to her credit  limit at the time. 
And, by July it was clear  the monthly repayments  she was making, had the effect of clearing, in full 
what she owed. This is important, because as Ive mentioned when SNC approved the facility, it was 
entitled to believe  that Miss W would  repay what she owed over a reasonable  period of time. 
However, by now, it was clear this was not happing. 
What was actually happening was Miss Ws monthly repayments were close to 50% of her income  
which is an amount that I consider to be unsustainable. Bearing in mind  on top of this, Miss W also 
had her regular living costs and other credit commitments she was required to make.  
This happened for a number  of months in a row, so is a clear indication that Miss W wasnt repaying 
this facility in a reasonable period of time. To me, she seems to be using the facility as if it was similar  
to a payday loan. So, Miss W was taking out funds,  repaying  them a month later and then having to 
immediately return to SNC in order to fill a hole which was left in her finances caused by making the 
full repayment. Essential,  Miss W wasnt in fact repaying  her balance, but paying interest to service  
the debt over an extended  period of time. 
So whether or not the facility  at this point in time was pound and pence affordable,  isnt really the 
point, I think by now it was clear Miss W wasnt in a position to sustainably take on further drawdowns 
from her facility because she returned  so quickly for new lending after shed  made payments to SNC.  
And having thought about this pattern, it isnt entirely  clear, given the way the account  was being  
used, why SNC believed that it was sustainable to have allowed Miss W to continue to draw down on 
the facility after July 2016. Up to this point, the amount of credit available for Miss W had nearly 
doubled from £200 (in December 2015) to £380 in April 2016. 
So while I dont think SNC was wrong  to have  provided Miss W her initial credit limit, there were  clear  
signs that Miss W was having difficulties as she wasnt using the facility as SNC intended. As a result, 
SNC shouldnt have  allowed  any further  drawdowns  after 16 July 2016. 
other considerations 
Miss W appears  to have encountered some difficulty repaying her outstanding  balance from 
November 2016. It seems at this point  SNC  froze interest and charges, and allowed Miss W to repay  
the balance in manageable  amounts of £67.50 per month. This went on until 
June 2017 when it seems  Miss W had repaid the outstanding balance. And although,  Im already 
Ref: DRN93330107upholding Miss Ws complaint at this point,  I do have  some additional  concerns about the way SNC 
treated her.  
I consider the actions detailed  above by SNC  to be positive and sympathetic  in order to help Miss W 
repay what she owed. After  all, SNC had an obligation to provide assistance once it was aware of 
Miss Ws difficulties. However,  three days after Miss W had repaid her balance,  she started  to 
drawdown on the facility again, and over the course of the next four days  she had borrowed back up 
to her credit  limit of £380. 
I must say, Im surprised that SNC allowed Miss W to do this. Quite whether Miss W could afford  the 
repayments on a pounds and pence basis I dont think is really point. In this situation,  SNC appears to 
have been aware of financial difficulties and yet continued to allow Miss W to draw down  funds, 
thereby causing her further financial problems.  This is evidenced  by the fact, that Miss W had further 
repayment problems,  which has left an outstanding balance remaining to this day. Even if I only 
considered, what SNC saw at the time, via the way of read only access to her bank statements.  I still 
dont think it was reasonable to allow  Miss W to take further drawdowns.    
SNC ought to have been  monitoring the account,  and had it done so it wouldve seen that Miss Ws 
only source of income during  this time was benefits,  tax credits and a decreasing salary.  And, given 
what Ive said about the way the facility  was being used, there was a very real danger that Miss W 
wasnt in a position to sustainably  repay what  she was asking to borrow.     
So in conclusion, having looked at everything Ive been provided, I dont think  SNC made  an error by 
initially granting  the facility.  But I do think that by 15 July 2016 there were enough signs to suggest 
that Miss W wouldnt be able to afford to make  any further repayments in a sustainable  manner. 
Ref: DRN9333010