K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage  
payment protection policy (PPI) in 2003.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs N say that the policy was added without their knowledge or consent.  And 
theyve told us they didnt need  the PPI as they had savings and sick pay from work.
So Ive looked  to see whether Santander made it clear to Mr and Mrs N that they had 
a fair choice in taking  out the PPI or leaving  it. Overall, I think Santander  made it 
clear that Mr and Mrs N didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why they cant remember  this.
I say this because  I think  the PPI was taken out over the phone.  Santander cant 
provide a copy of the call recording. This isnt unusual as so much  time  nearly 16 
years - has gone by and businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely.  But I 
can also see the PPI was taken out after the mortgage. So I think  Mr and Mrs N 
would have known  they didnt have  to have it to get their mortgage. And a welcome 
letter together with a schedule of insurance was sent to them setting out the monthly 
benefit of the policy,  what  they were covered for and the amount of the monthly  
premium. So if they were unsure about  the policy they could have questioned it at 
any time. I havent seen  evidence that they did so. I note that the business has told 
me that Mr and Mrs N contacted the insurer to change Mrs Ns name on the policy.  
Overall I think  they likely knew  they had the cover and chose it knowing they could 
refuse it if they didnt  want it.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs N so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover  they were  both working and in good health  so I think  they 
could have made a successful  claim if theyd needed to. And they seem to have had 
a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have put them off taking  out the cover.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs N.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N because: 
Ref: DRN98113072Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs N about that. Because Santander  didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs N, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs N have said - including  what theyve said about 
having savings  in ISAs which could have  covered  them if they couldnt afford to make 
payment and about their sick pay from work - six months full pay and six months  half pay 
and redundancy  if they lost their jobs. But these  points dont change my decision.
This policy would  have paid out in addition to any sick pay they received and likely for longer 
than their full sick pay from work  lasted.  It meant  any redundancy pay could have been used 
for other important expenses and the ISA could have been left intact  and isnt always  so 
easily accessible if theyd needed it. As the policy covered their mortgage, the 
consequences of being unable to repay  it were serious. So I think the PPI was useful if 
things went wrong.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs N any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs N any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs N the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs N 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs N can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs N any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9811307