K821x#15complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the settlement  paid to her by Legal & General Insurance Limited  
(L&G) in respect of a claim for trace and access and subsequent repairs under her home 
insurance.
background
In November 2017 Mrs P reported a claim to L&G following her bathroom being  flooded.  She 
called out a plumber who eventually traced the leak to be coming  from next door. Once that 
was repaired L&G arranged to install  drying equipment. L&Gs  notes indicate that in January 
2018 Mrs P agreed  a cash settlement of £1,737.11 plus VAT for the trace and access  work 
and to repair the damage done. It said it would also pay for the electricity  costs of running  
the drying equipment. 
Mrs P felt that she had to do a lot of chasing  around and spent a long time on the phone  and 
in other  communications with L&G. She also said the settlement wasnt  enough. She had 
incurred costs of £2,419.80  and had had to do the work of clearing  the debris herself. L&G 
reviewed the matter and said Mrs B had had the option of using its contractor but she had 
chosen a cash  settlement.  It also said that some uninsured work needed to be carried  out 
before repairs could start. It agreed that she had been put to some  inconvenience and 
offered her £500  compensation  for that
Mrs P said she was never offered the option of L&Gs contractor and that no uninsured work 
was undertaken  by her. She also said shed been caused a lot of stress by the matter and 
had had to take a lot of time off work.
On review by our adjudicator, he said that Mrs P had had a reasonable settlement bearing in 
mind L&G had offered  her the option of using its own contractors. L&G released  a payment 
to Mrs P of £2,084.53  (inclusive of VAT)  and a payment for the electricity costs  and the 
compensation offered.  
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that it was unfair for L&G to pay Mrs 
P according  to its own contractors rates. I didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show  
that Mrs P had been offered the option of using L&Gs contractors.  Having said that, the 
difference between  the two was, I calculated,  only £84.65 taking into account  the excess. I 
said L&G should  pay this and pay £100 to Mrs P to compensate her for having  to clear the 
debris herself.
Neither party has commented on my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
own contractors
I dont think L&G really  did give Mrs P the opportunity  to have the work  carried  out by its 
contractors. Mrs P says this was never offered to her. The site notes say that a cash  
Ref: DRN99544122settlement was agreed. L&G said If the customer wanted us to appoint a contractor to 
proceed etc. this would  have been discussed  on the visit instead a cash  settlement was 
agreed presumably because the customer already had her contractors involved.
I dont think her contractors were involved at that stage and I cant see that the option  of 
L&Gs contractor was offered to her then. She did use a plumber  to do the original trace  and 
access but that was because  it was an emergency, and L&G agreed  to cover that cost.
So I dont  think that L&G can justify payment based  on the cost to it of using its own 
contractors. Having said that, I dont think this will result in a much bigger payment to Mrs P. 
I understand she has incurred costs  of £2,419,18. This is a difference of £334.65. But as far 
as I can see L&G hasnt  deducted the £250  excess so far. So unless its willing not to charge 
an excess, Mrs P should be paid a further £84.65. If Mrs P has paid her contractors, L&G 
should add interest  to that payment from the date she paid it.
Mrs P also advised she wanted  a payment  for the clearing  of the debris,  which L&G was 
willing to pay, subject to the production of an invoice. I believe she has carried  out this work 
herself. I propose that L&G pay her £100  to compensate her for her time.
compensation
L&G has paid Mrs P £500 compensation. She did have to do a lot of chasing about  and 
spent some time on the phone to L&G. It agreed that more could have been done  to assist 
her. Mrs P says she had to take time off work because of the stress.  As our adjudicator 
pointed out, we cant consider compensation for a medical problem without medical 
evidence. And I should clarify here that I dont consider the certificates  signing her off work 
to be medical evidence. An insurance claim, especially one like this, will inevitably be 
stressful. For the added stress caused by the delays and poor communication,  I think that 
the £500 paid is sufficient .
As neither party has commented on them, my provisional findings are now final and form 
part of this final decision. To summarise, my overall view is that there is insufficient evidence 
that L&G offered  Mrs P the option of using its contractors before she instructed her own 
contractors. Because  of that I think its fair for L&G to pay the difference.  
I also think that for the stress caused to Mrs P the compensation paid of £500 is in my view 
fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Legal & General  Insurance  Limited to pay Mrs P a 
further £184.95 in settlement of her claim,  and for the £84.95,  add interest* at 8% simple per 
year from the date she paid it until the date of reimbursement.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99544123*If Legal  & General  Insurance  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should  tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs P a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9954412