K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tradewise Insurance Company  Limited (Tradewise) wont meet the 
costs of a claim a third party made against  his motor insurance policy, and is seeking to 
recover from Mr S what it has already paid out.
background
In January 2017, a car insured on Mr Ss policy drove into the rear of a third partys car. In 
February 2017 the third partys insurer contacted Tradewise to claim against Mr Ss policy  
for the damage  to the car and personal  injury to the third party driver.
Tradewise phoned  Mr S to ask him what had happened.  Mr S denied  knowledge  of any 
accident and said his car was undamaged. The third party  had said the person driving  Mr Ss 
car had given his name as Mr M. When Tradewise mentioned this to Mr S, he ended the call.
Tradewise left a voicemail  asking Mr S to contact it, and warning that if he didnt it would 
have to deal with the third partys claim and could  seek to recover the costs from Mr S. A few 
days later,  Mr S did phone Tradewise.  He said his car had driven into the rear of the third 
partys car. He said he had been driving at the time, and Mr M had been  his passenger. 
Tradewise sent Mr S a claim form to complete and return. It also appointed an engineer to 
examine Mr Ss car, and an investigator  to interview Mr S, so it could establish what had 
happened, and decide whether to challenge the claims  the third party  was making.  However 
in spite of a number of attempts  and messages  left, neither was able to make contact with 
Mr S, and Tradewise didnt receive the completed claim form.
Tradewise had no option but to settle  the third partys claim on the best terms it could. It then 
wrote to Mr S saying that as he hadnt  cooperated  with Tradewise in respect of the claim, it 
wouldnt cover  him in respect  of the claim and would cancel his policy.  It would also seek to 
recover from him the money it had paid to the third party in respect of the claim. Mr S 
complained to Tradewise about this, and when it didnt accept his complaint  he complained 
to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said Mr S had a 
duty under  the policy to tell Tradewise  about any accidents, and to cooperate with it in 
respect of any claim made. However Tradewise heard about the accident from the third 
partys insurer,  not Mr S, and Mr S failed to cooperate with Tradewise, or with its engineer  
and investigator,  in respect of the claim.
The investigator acknowledged that English wasnt Mr Ss first language. However from 
conversations he had with Mr S he thought  Mr S understood from previous experience what 
he needed to do in an insurance  claim. 
If Mr S had cooperated  with Tradewise, the investigator thought  it wouldnt  have  had to pay 
as much to the third party,  if anything at all. As it was, it had negotiated down the amount 
claimed by the third party, but still had to pay some £8,500.
Mr Ss insurance policy contained  the following terms:
2. Full details of any incident which may result in a claim under this Insurance shall be 
reported to the Claims Department as soon as reasonably possible on 0800  205 5513. 
Ref: DRN968845825. The Company shall be given all information  and assistance  they may require in 
connection with any such incident or claim in respect thereof; 
13. The Company reserves the right to seek reimbursement from the Insured for any 
increased compensation and/or costs  incurred due to failure to complete paperwork and/or 
late notification of any incident.
The investigator thought Tradewise was acting fairly  in relying on these terms to ask Mr S to 
repay it its claim costs. He recommended that Mr S contact Tradewise to negotiate  a 
payment plan.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that:
he had phoned  Tradewise earlier in January 2017 on a mobile phone to tell it about 
the accident. It was a pay-as-you-go  phone  so he had no record of the call to prove 
this; 
he had tried to contact the investigator to arrange an appointment without success; 
and
he had sent some documents about the claim to his broker.
So he thought he had complied with the policy terms, and had cooperated with Tradewise 
about his claim.
The investigator said this didnt lead him to change his view. The third party maintained  it 
was Mr M, not Mr S, who was driving Mr Ss car at the time of the accident.  And the 
investigator didnt  think  Mr S had taken  reasonable steps to assist  Tradewise, or the 
investigator and engineer  it appointed,  with their ongoing enquiries.
Mr S asked for his complaint to be reviewed.  He said he had provided evidence that he had 
phoned Tradewise  in January 2017  and during the claim, and had provided information  to 
his broker as well as to Tradewise.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tradewise has no record of Mr S notifying it of the accident before Tradewise was contacted  
by the third party in February 2017.  It then phoned Mr S, whose initial  response was to deny 
all knowledge of the accident.  Mr S then phoned Tradewise to admit the accident, and to say 
he had been driving the car. 
This initial contradiction  made Tradewise suspect it was Mr M, not Mr S, who was driving at 
the time of the accident. This was supported by the evidence of the third party who said he 
only saw Mr M at the time. If this was the case, the claim wouldnt  have  been  covered by   
Mr Ss insurance policy.
Tradewise said Mr S would have to complete and return an accident  report  form. Mr S says 
he sent this to his broker. But Tradewises claims department was dealing  with the claim and 
it should have  been returned  to them. They didnt receive it. Mr S also failed to contact the 
engineer and investigator, who each made several attempts to get in touch with him.
Ref: DRN96884583All in all, like the investigator,  I think Mr S knew from early February that he needed to get in 
touch with Tradewise,  its investigator and its engineer, to help them with the claim. 
Tradewise took reasonable  steps  to make contact, and warned him in its initial voicemail of 
the consequences of his failing to do so. 
Mr S told the investigator he didnt  listen to his voicemail messages. But he was a part time 
motor trader, and was restricted in using  his phone during his main  occupation. So I think 
this is unlikely.
In view of the policy  terms Ive set out above, I think the failure of Mr S to cooperate means 
its reasonable for Tradewise to require Mr S to repay what its paid the third party  under the 
claim. I recommend Mr S to get in touch with Tradewise to agree a suitable repayment plan.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Tradewise 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9688458