K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) disposed of his cars salvage against his 
wishes after a claim on his motor  insurance policy. He wants  compensation for his 
inconvenience and stress.
background
Mr B said UKI sold his car for salvage after it was deemed beyond  economical repair  
following an accident.  But Mr B said hed told UKI that he wanted to repair his car himself  
and he hadnt  agreed its valuation. UKI agreed  that it had made a mistake  and it paid Mr B 
the market value for his car, plus the salvage  value  and it offered him £200  compensation for 
his trouble and upset.  But Mr B didnt accept this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  UKI had 
reasonably responded to the error  when it was pointed  out. And he thought its offer of £200 
compensation was fair. He also thought UKI had paid Mr B more than the market value of 
his car, which he thought  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He couldnt see that 
Mr B had suffered  any further losses that warranted  compensation.
Mr B replied  that he thought UKI should pay him a further £500. He said this was the 
difference between  its settlement and what he should have been paid if hed been given 
cash in lieu of repairs and kept his car. He also thought hed been caused a loss because  
hed bought another car based on having his old car returned  to him for repair. He said this 
replacement car was now unsuitable  for his needs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that UKI has accepted that it made an error in disposing of Mr Bs car when hed 
clearly told it that he wanted  to keep it. When a business makes an error we expect it to 
restore the consumers  position, as far its possible to do so. So, like the investigator, Ive 
considered Mr Bs losses caused by the error and what UKI has done to put them right. 
UKI said the market value  of Mr Bs car was £3,435. I can see that our investigator has 
checked how this amount  was arrived at. I think it takes into account the make, model,  age, 
mileage and condition  of Mr Bs car. Its based on our approach  of obtaining  valuations  from 
the four motor  trade  guides we use. I think UKIs  offer is higher than wed expect to take into 
account the engineers view of the cars condition. So I think  this valuation was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr B said he wanted to retain his car and repair it. He said UKIs field engineer  told him that 
a cash in lieu of repair payment was based  on the market value of his car less the salvage 
cost that UKI would otherwise have  benefited from. Mr B said he could have repaired the car 
for around  £1,200. And so he thought UKI should  compensate him for the loss of his car with 
around £1,400.  
Ref: DRN95401802But I dont think it would  be fair to expect UKI to pay this amount. This is because  I dont 
think Mr B has the correct information. Our approach is that a cash in lieu payment  is based 
on the estimated  cost of repairs. Mr Bs policy says that if he opts to use an unauthorised 
repairer, then UKI must approve the estimate.  So the most Id expect UKI to have paid would 
be the estimate he provided,  not the estimate provided by its authorised repairers. 
UKI paid Mr B the cars market value and it also paid him the salvage  value  it had received 
for the car, £583.95.  I think  that under the policy terms  and conditions  Mr B was only entitled  
to the cars market  value. So I think UKI has very reasonably compensated him for its error  
and his loss.  
Mr B said hed suffered  a loss as hed bought a further car expecting  to have his car 
returned. He said the replacement car was unsuitable for his everyday use. But, from what  I 
can see, both cars are large family cars. I dont think the difference  between  them  is 
sufficient to be significant. So I dont agree that UKI has caused Mr B to suffer a loss on this 
point.
UKI also offered  Mr B £200 compensation for his trouble  and upset. I think this is fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with the level Id award in similar circumstances. I can see that 
this offer is still open to Mr B if he wants to accept it. I dont  require UKI to do anything  
further. 
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9540180