K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that the vehicle she acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed 
by Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. She further complains that the fuel consumption  is below that advertised. 
She wants compensation.
background
Mrs S is represented in this complaint by Mr S. Mr S has been the main correspondent, but 
for ease  of reading  Ill refer mostly to Mrs S as she is the party named on the hire purchase 
agreement.
Mrs S tells us that she acquired the new vehicle  in the latter half of 2014. She says that an 
interior light provided to be faulty and it took over a year to repair  this. In addition  she states 
that a service indicator light didnt work; a tyre pressure  monitor  was faulty; and a brake 
warning light didnt  work. She also states  that an oil leak damaged her and a family 
members driveway. Mrs S further  complains Audi took a payment from her account before 
the date it had notified her that this would occur. And she says that the vehicle hasnt  
achieved the advertised level of fuel efficiency.
Audi told us that no quality issues had been  raised about the vehicle apart from the interior  
light. It said this was replaced in April 2016. It said the published fuel consumption figures 
were obtained  under  standardised test conditions. And it considered  that the miles per gallon 
obtained by Mrs S was within the normal range. It noted that Mrs S had purchased  the 
vehicle at the end of the agreement. And queried  why - if the vehicle had experienced the 
numerous faults and issues claimed - she wouldnt simply have handed it back  at the end of 
the agreed term.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 July 2020. I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint in part but that I wouldnt be asking VWFS to do anything else. I said 
that I didnt  consider it was necessary for compensation to be awarded for two minor errors 
which hadnt resulted in any financial loss.
Since I issued my provisional  decision Mr S has replied on behalf  of Mrs S. Hes sent several  
items of correspondence each  of which Ive read. In summary, Mr S expressed his 
disagreement with my provisional decision.  And he referred to previous matters about which 
hed taken issue on behalf of Mrs S. These  include the delay in dealing with the complaint 
and that part of the complaint was determined to be outside of our jurisdiction. Audi hasnt  
provided any further comment or information.
I thank Mr S for his responses to my provisional decision and Ive taken them into account. 
For reasons Ill explain  in more detail in my final decision below,  Im not minded to change  
the view I expressed in my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN92380602Due to issues which arose when Mrs S complaint was first received by this service
I need to clarify the scope of my decision. It was determined  that it was necessary for this 
complaint to be split. The reason for this was that part of the complaint fell outside the 
jurisdiction of this service. The part which was found to have  fallen outside  our jurisdiction 
related to a service  agreement which I understand had not been financed by a regulated 
credit agreement. 
Im aware that, on behalf of Mrs S, Mr S disagreed with this approach. That decision  had 
been taken before the remaining (in jurisdiction) part of the complaint was referred to me in 
July 2020. Its not open to me to revisit a decision or jurisdiction determination made by 
another ombudsman.  
In September  2019 our investigator  wrote to Mr S confirming that the complaint  had been  
split and that some parts  were being  looked at by an ombudsman. 
 
 She said the points  shed  be looking  at were as follows:
 The miles per gallon (MPG) of Mrs S car;
 The issues with the lights not illuminating correctly on the dash board;
 The excess mileage  charge that had been  take from Mrs S bank account on a date earlier  
than VWFS  stated.
Mr S replied  and referred back to the original  complaint and expressed the view that he 
didnt feel the issues could be fully investigated without reference to the original complaint 
and documents  hed previously sent.
In the light of comments made by Mr S when replying to the provisional decision,  I confirm 
that I had read the contents  of a power  point submission he prepared prior to issuing that 
decision. And Ive since refreshed my memory of its contents. Ive also read the detailed and 
highlighted response he sent, dated  25 July 2020, to my provisional decision.  
In brief,  complaint was made about  some  aspects of the vehicles quality;  Audi taking 
payment for excess mileage charges before  the date it had notified  Mrs S this would happen;  
and an alleged misrepresentation of the vehicle in terms of the fuel consumption  levels.  A 
misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Mrs S hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Audi supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle and / or any misrepresentation by the supplier in 
antecedent negotiations. As the agreement commenced in 2014  its subject  to the legislation 
applicable at that time.  
Ref: DRN92380603Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  Relevant legislation includes 
the Sale of Goods  Act 1979 and the Supply  of Goods and Services  Act 1982. Theres little, if 
any, practical difference between this and the current legislation  contained in the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 as to how it affects this complaint. The requirement is for goods  to be as 
described; fit for purpose  and of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  Satisfactory quality is 
defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory.
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service  in late 2018, by which time shed purchased  the 
vehicle. Im aware Mrs S doesnt accept shed bought the vehicle outright and refers  to a 
caveat. I understand  its suggested this remains until all the issues in the complaint have 
been resolved.  A letter dated  16 October  2018 confirms that Audi no longer held a financial  
interest in the vehicle.  I see no reason  to doubt  that the title for the vehicle has passed to 
Mrs S.
This is relevant as any issues  arising  after she purchased the vehicle outright arent  within 
the jurisdiction of this service as theres no current regulated  finance  agreement relating to 
the vehicle. When  a consumer purchases  goods, issues of which  the customer is aware  
arent usually considered  to be aspects which go the whether the goods were of satisfactory  
quality.
Ill now deal with specific issues previously  referred  to in the complaint.
.
The fault with an internal  light appears to have dated  back to at least  January 2015.  And it 
doesnt seem to have  been replaced  until April 2016. There  are references to the part having 
been ordered before then but I accept it took an unsatisfactory length of time to fix a 
relatively minor component. I accept that more serious inconvenience might  have arisen  if 
keys had been dropped  within the vehicle. But as Ive seen  nothing  to suggest this did 
happen Im not going to speculate or make further  comment.
Fuel consumption figures are often advertised as part of sales  literature. In reality, its almost  
impossible to achieve the same efficiency in normal driving conditions. Thats because the 
figures are compiled in strict laboratory  conditions. When Mrs S first acquired the vehicle the 
figures were  achieved within a procedure known  as the New European Driving Cycle 
(NEDC). But this changed in 2018 when a new testing process was introduced. The figures 
also provide a comparison between different vehicle models as the readings are based on 
uniform testing conditions.
Ive not been supplied  with any information that I think shows  there  was any 
misrepresentation of the figures advertised when Mrs S first acquired the vehicle. In my 
opinion, if Mrs S hasnt been  able to replicate the advertised fuel consumption figures  its 
probably that shes experienced the usual variable factors  which  are part of everyday 
motoring. This would include such issues as speed,  weather, load and road conditions.  All of 
which are variables that didnt apply  to the controlled  environment in which the NEDC figures  
were achieved.
Ref: DRN92380604Im able to look at certain aspects of a complaint where disputed deductions are made  from 
a consumers bank  account by a business.  Here a payment in respect  of excess mileage 
charges was taken  prior to the date which Audi had informed Mrs S it would be collected. Im 
not commenting on whether the payment itself was contractually enforceable as the payment  
related to the service agreement and is outside our jurisdiction. But the date on which  the 
payment was taken  from Mrs S bank account  was the result  of an error in administration by 
Audi. 
The invoice was dated 1 October 2018.  But it wasnt as clear as it ought to have been. It 
stated that the payment was to be collected on or around the 30th. The month  isnt 
stipulated but presumably its intended to refer to 30 October. It appears  to have been taken 
on 15 October. Fortunately, as funds were available  no direct financial loss was incurred. 
I understand the excess mileage charge was later reduced to £200  by Audi as an 
acknowledgment of this error.
Out of courtesy to Mrs S Ill briefly mention other issues which have been raised at different 
times although these  are not matters on which I can directly assist.  
I cant award any compensation  for damage to any persons property when that individual is 
not a party  to the complaint. Any damage  to the family members driveway isnt something  I 
can deal with. 
Mrs S advised that in December 2018  damage  was caused to a tyre due to the vehicle 
running on flat when the tyre pressure monitor is said not to have worked. A warning light is 
apparently supposed to illuminate if tyre pressure  falls below acceptable levels. The tyre 
pressure monitor was purchased as an optional  extra at the time the financial agreement  
was incepted. Theres insufficient evidence  to show that it wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the 
time of original supply.  Similarly,  I didnt  see any reference to brake warning  or service 
indicator light faults on the maintenance schedule. By December 2018 Mrs S was the owner 
of the vehicle and it can be inferred that if there had been earlier problems with this monitor 
these would have  been repaired or Mrs S wouldve been aware of the issue  at the time she 
became the owner.
In summary,  I dont find theres  sufficient information which  would cause me to find thered 
been a misrepresentation of the vehicle or the regulated finance agreement. In particular I 
dont find the fuel consumption figures were misrepresented.
Although there was a fault with the interior light this was a relatively minor issue  which didnt 
mean that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  It didnt prevent the 
vehicle from being  used. I accept that Audi took too long to fix the fault.
I also find that Audi made an error  in collecting  a payment from Mrs S account before the 
date it had advised. Given no financial loss arose Im not requiring Audi to do anything  more 
about this.
Im required  to determine this complaint on the basis of what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable. I acknowledge that a business  will from time to time make errors. But not every 
error  especially those which are of a minor nature  and which dont result in financial loss  
requires the separate award of compensation.
Ref: DRN92380605I find that Audi did make the two minor errors to which Ive referred and thats why Im 
upholding the complaint  in part. But I dont require it do anything else.  Ive taken into account 
that it reduced the payment it sought after the early  deduction of a payment from Mrs S 
bank account.
I accept that Mrs S is likely to be disappointed  with my final decision.  As an informal 
resolution service its also the final step in our process  to try to resolve this complaint. This 
means that if Mrs S doesnt accept my final decision  she is free to pursue it with Audi but this 
service will no longer  be involved.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  the complaint in part only.  I find there were  errors 
made in the delay in arranging the repair  to the interior  light. And that a payment was taken 
in error  from Mrs S bank  account in advance of the stipulated date.
Im not requiring Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance to 
take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9238060