K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc misled him when it said his credit card application  
was highly likely to be approved. 
Background
In September  2018 Mr C says he received a targeted advert when he logged into his online 
banking that said he would be highly likely to be approved for a new credit  card with HSBC.  
Mr C says he applied online but the application  was declined. Mr Cs application  was 
referred back to the underwriters but the decision wasnt changed. HSBC wrote  to Mr C on 
7 September 2018 but he says the letter contained incorrect  information.  On 
8 September 2018 Mr C spoke with an underwriter and discussed  his application.
A few days  after the credit  card application was declined,  Mr C says HSBC sent him another 
advert for credit. Mr C says that if hed applied again  it could have affected his credit rating.  
Mr C complained and says the service he received was poor and that he wasnt contacted 
as agreed. Mr C says HSBC didnt respond  to letters he sent at the beginning of 
October 2018. HSBC  responded  to Mr Cs complaint on 26 November 2018  and apologised 
for sending  him irrelevant  information in its 7 September 2018 letter. But HSBC  didnt uphold 
the complaint  and said his application  had been  correctly declined. 
Mr C referred  his complaint to our service and it was passed to two investigators. Both 
thought HSBC had dealt  with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. 
Mr C asked to appeal  so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief above in setting out the background  to Mr Cs complaint as hes 
sent us very detailed  submissions concerning what happened. HSBC  has also given us its 
version of events which are broadly in line with what Mr C says occurred. Mr Cs response to 
the investigator provides a lot of detail explaining why he doesnt agree. I want  to assure 
Mr C that Ive read and considered everything hes submitted in support of his complaint. I 
havent addressed  all of the points hes made and have focused on what I feel are the key 
issues of the complaint.  I hope Mr C wont take that as a discourtesy, it reflects  the informal 
nature of our service. 
Mr C says HSBC misled  him when it said his credit card application was highly  likely  to be 
successful. But I dont  agree thats the case.  HSBC says that a large proportion  of customers 
that apply after receiving that email  are approved, but Mr Cs application wasnt  successful. 
And I think its reasonable to say that something which  is highly likely is not a certainty.  I 
think the information HSBC provided indicated the credit card was subject to approval 
following an application.  Im sorry to disappoint  Mr C but I havent been persuaded he was 
unreasonably induced into applying or that HSBC misled him.
HSBC referred Mr Cs application to its underwriters  and he was able to discuss it over the 
phone. I havent seen  anything to indicate Mr Cs application was handled  poorly or HSBCs 
decision to decline it was wrong. HSBC has confirmed that the application didnt  meet its 
Ref: DRN99122752lending criteria, which is why it didnt proceed. The information Ive seen supports that. Im 
satisfied that Mr Cs application was fairly declined based on the information available  to 
HSBC. 
Mr C says HSBC included  incorrect information  in its 7 September 2018 letter and I agree  
thats the case. HSBCs  final response apologised for the issue  and I think thats reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Shortly after Mr Cs credit card application was declined he says HSBC sent him another 
advert for credit. I agree that the promotional information he was sent was poorly  timed. But 
Mr C has confirmed he didnt apply so his concerns about any potential impact  on his credit 
file havent come about. Whilst I understand why Mr C is upset to have received another 
advert so soon after his application was declined, I havent seen anything to show  it led to a 
loss. 
Mr C has raised  other concerns relating to how his complaint was handled. But as a service  
we cant normally deal with complaints  that relate to complaint handling  itself.  Ive focused 
on the way HSBC handled Mr Cs application and the information it provided.
Mr C also says there were delays responding to his complaint and that HSBC lost letters  he 
sent. I can see we have postal receipts  for the dates Mr C has provided showing HSBC did 
receive letters. So I agree  HSBC may have misplaced some  of Mr Cs correspondence. But 
we dont fine or punish businesses and focus  on the impact of a mistake.  In this case, HSBC 
had eight weeks to respond to Mr Cs complaint. It responded on 26 November 2018 which 
is a few days after the deadline  ended. So whilst I can see that there was small delay, the 
final response was issued within a few days of the standard  deadline. Im not persuaded the 
impact of the delay  caused an unreasonably level of distress or inconvenience to Mr C. 
I havent found anything to show HSBC  misled Mr C or made any mistakes in relation to his 
credit card application. Taking everything  Ive seen into account, Im satisfied HSBC has 
dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly so Im not asking it to do anything else. 
Ref: DRN99122753My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9912275