K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered both Mr and Mrs G in 
case either of them  was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs G, I have  not found  that this policy  was mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage application had a section for PPI, which  could be filled out if they 
wanted the policy, or which  could be left blank if they didnt want  it. Its recorded that they 
applied for PPI, checked they were eligible, and chose the details of the cover they wanted. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs G discussed details of their personal and financial circumstances, 
mortgage preferences  and so on with the staff member, so I think its most likely they 
discussed PPI, too. And they signed the mortgage application to confirm  what  was on it. It 
doesnt look like there was any requirement to take PPI to get the mortgage, and the 
mortgage offer set out the policys cost separately from the cost of the mortgage itself,  and 
not as something  that had to be included.  While  I wasnt present at any discussions, Ive 
looked carefully at the evidence I have, and Ive not seen anything  which  shows  Mr and 
Mrs G were told they had to have PPI. Nor have I seen  any wider problems of this sort with 
Nationwides sales process  from the time. Overall, I think its most  likely that Nationwide  
made Mr and Mrs G aware they had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that they chose to 
take it at the time. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. It did have to give Mr and Mrs G clear information about the PPI.
Its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs G about PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think  better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs G chose  to take out PPI, which  indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. Mr and Mrs G were both eligible for the policy and werent  
affected by any of the main things it didnt cover. It looks like they were  given details of the 
policys costs and benefits. The policy was competitively priced  considering what  it could pay 
out in a claim, and Ive not seen any indication that it was unaffordable. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr and Mrs G could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty.
Ref: DRN99884082Mr and Mrs G had some work benefits and savings, but the PPI covered them for longer 
than those wouldve  lasted, and paid out on top of their existing benefits. And it meant they 
could, in effect, protect their savings and be able to use them for other  things. Further,  while  
I understand they may have  felt secure in their jobs, redundancies can and do happen even 
in the most stable-seeming careers, and they hadnt  been with their employers that long. 
Ultimately, its worth  bearing in mind  that if Mr and Mrs G fell behind on their mortgage 
payments they risked  losing their home. It looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for 
Mr and Mrs G in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind in case something 
went wrong. Overall, I dont think that better  information was likely to have  put them off 
taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9988408