K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 
alongside a credit card. Mrs D says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), Halifax  at the time, mis-sold 
her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Mrs D and her representative have provided a lot of detail in support of this complaint. So I 
dont doubt the strength of feeling.  Ive read and considered everything they have said. 
However, it may be helpful  to explain that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
point thats been made   its only to provide my conclusions and reasons for them. So while 
Id like to reassure them that Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said throughout 
this complaint, my final findings will be expressed  in considerably less detail.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs D says she that the PPI was added without her knowledge and consent. And as soon as 
she had been  made aware about  the existence  of the policy,  she asked BoS to remove  it 
immediately.
On the other hand, BoS says that it wouldve obtained Mrs Ds explicit  consent to purchase  
the PPI before the sale was concluded.  This policy was sold a long time ago  around 20 
years ago - so its difficult to rely on either party has said alone  to make a finding on what 
happened at the time.  But I have considered what both parties have said and Ive also 
looked at all the other evidence available to come to a decision  on what  I think  is more likely  
to have happened. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs D credit card application  form which  was completed  in the meeting 
with BoS. There is an x printed  in the box for PPI which suggests Mrs D agreed to the 
policy. Mrs D and her representative dispute  this and say that it wasnt  right for BoS to 
include a pre-printed  x for PPI in Mrs Ds form. But I think the form was completed  based on 
the information and answers  Mrs D gave at the time.  I say this because  the form includes 
Mrs Ds personal  details,  including information  about  her job and salary,  and its likely these 
personal details  wouldve  been obtained during  the meeting when she was applying for the 
credit card. It also shows that there  was another optional  product available  which wasnt  
selected  so it seems  likely that Mrs D chose  what she wanted to have. 
I accept its possible that the x to agree  to PPI couldve  been included in the form without 
being discussed prior to the form being printed. However, having carefully weighed up the 
evidence available  Im not persuaded that this is what is more likely  to have happened.  
Mrs D says she cancelled the policy in 2006 when  BoS made her aware that she had PPI, 
and that this shows she wasnt aware  of the policy when in was first added. Ive also thought  
about what Mrs D says about how she wouldve claimed on her policy  when she was out of 
work if shed  known she had it. But based on what Ive said above I think  its likely Mrs D did 
Ref: DRN98610162know about the PPI in 1999 at the time of applying for her credit card. Its possible that after 
this she had forgotten shed taken it out  but this doesnt mean BoS did anything  wrong 
when it sold her the PPI.   
So overall, based on the evidence Ive seen I think its more likely that BoS made it clear 
Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand if she cant remember this.
There is some dispute about  whether or not BoS advised Mrs D to take out the PPI. BoS 
says that the sale was advised and Mrs D says that it wasnt.  However, it is not necessary 
for me make a conclusive determination on this point. This is because Ive not found  that the 
policy was unsuitable  for Mrs D for the reasons set out below.  So, even if I assume advice  
was given, it does  not affect  the outcome of this complaint.
As an advised sale BoS was required to take reasonable steps  to make sure the policy was 
right for Mrs D and Ive taken into account that Mrs D says she wasnt asked any questions  
about her sick pay benefits  or her ability to keep  up her repayments  in the event she was 
unable to work. But I dont think this makes  a difference  to the outcome  of this complaint 
because based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think  the PPI was 
suitable for her. I say this because Ive not seen any evidence Mrs D was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mrs D says she had sufficient sick pay from her employer so she didnt need the policy.  But 
upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 10% of Mrs Ds outstanding monthly balance  
for up to 12 months. This would have  been  in addition to her sick pay, meaning these funds 
were free to use for other expenses. And while I dont doubt  that her sick pay wouldve been  
generous, I think its unlikely she wouldve received full sick pay for as long as the policy 
wouldve paid out. So I think  she wouldve  found  the policy particularly useful when her sick 
pay entitlement reduced or ceased  and dont think her sick pay made  the PPI unsuitable  for 
her.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D. But BoS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because: 
Bos got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mrs D about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
Ref: DRN98610163But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs D any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9861016