K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Marks & Spencer Financial  Services plc, trading as M&S Bank, wont  
refund to him the money that he paid for a laptop computer. His complaint is made against 
M&S Bank under section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
background
Mr K used his M&S Bank credit card in February  2016 to pay £333 to a supplier, through  an 
online sales  site, for a laptop  computer. He claimed  a refund from M&S Bank under section 
75 in May 2018  because  he said that the computer was faulty.  It said that the purchase had 
been made via his account with an e-money provider so he didnt  have any claim rights 
under the applicable card scheme  rules. Mr K wasnt satisfied with M&S Banks  response  so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the 
£333 payment  was made via a third party and not directly to the supplier  so there  was no 
debtor-creditor-supplier link and no valid claim under section 75.
Mr K has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that this outcome is very unfair on him. He says that he purchased  a computer from a seller 
using his credit card in good faith but the computer  has stopped working. And he thinks  that 
its unacceptable and against the spirit  of the law - which is designed to protect consumers 
from exactly this kind of situation  that hes not covered  by section 75 because  he used an 
e-money provider instead of using his credit card directly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. One of those  circumstances is that there  must  be a 
relevant relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier.
In this case Mr K is the debtor because he used  credit supplied by M&S Bank to buy the 
computer, M&S Bank is the creditor because it provided credit to Mr K and the retailer that 
sold the computer  to M K on the online  sales site is the supplier.
But Mr Ks payment was made to an e-money provider (and not directly to the supplier) and 
the e-money provider will then have paid the money  to the supplier. That means that there  
wasnt a relevant relationship between M&S Bank  and the supplier and that theres not a 
relevant relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier. So Mr Ks section 75 
claim against M&S Bank  cant succeed. 
I consider that M&S Bank has responded to Mr Ks claim correctly.  And I find that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require M&S Bank to refund to Mr K 
the £333 that he paid for the computer  or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
Ref: DRN94508442my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9450844