K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt change  her address despite several 
requests to do so. 
background
Ms T moved to live with her daughter around  the beginning of 2017.  In February 2017 she 
called Tesco and asked  about changing  the address for her savings account.  Tesco  said 
Ms T had to send in a signed letter requesting the change. Ms T took the address details 
down and says she sent the letter a short time later. 
Tesco says Ms T called it again  in June 2017 and was told her address hadnt  been 
changed. It says she was given the address to send her request to again. But Tesco  hasnt 
been able to provide a copy of this call. 
Ms T called Tesco again in December 2017 as it had sent post to her old address. She 
explained that her husband, who shed separated from, had received her letter  despite  her 
requests that all correspondence  to that address be stopped. Tesco  said it hadnt received 
Ms Ts letters and asked her to write  in again.  
In February 2018  Ms T called Tesco again  and was told her address still hadnt been 
updated because  no letter had been  received. The call handler took note of Ms Ts account 
details and said hed follow  this up and her address was amended a short time later. 
Ms T complained but Tesco didnt feel it had made an error as there  was no evidence  it had 
received her letters. Ms T passed her concerns to our service and an adjudicator  looked  at 
what had happened. He asked Tesco  to pay Ms T £150 because  he thought it had most 
likely received her letters  but failed to act. He also said that the service  provided was poor 
and Tesco shouldve  tried to do more to help.  As Tesco  didnt agree Ms Ts complaints been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all the calls Tescos provided  for this case. Its a pity that the June 2017 call is 
missing as Tesco claims to have given some  alternative options to Ms T at that time. During 
all the calls I found Ms T to be sincere  and persuasive. I understand what  Tescos said about 
its automated post processing but thats no guarantee letters cant be misplaced or lost. Ms 
T carefully noted the addresses  she was given on all the calls Ive listened  to and I think  she 
wrote to those addresses as requested.  
I agree  with the adjudicator that the service here shouldve been better. It took around a year 
for someone  at Tesco to agree to monitor her account to check for receipt of her letter.  I 
think Tescos  call handlers could have offered something similar in June 2017  or in 
December 2017  when Ms T called. 
Ref: DRN94084762In the calls I listened to Ms T clearly told Tesco that she didnt want it to send any more  
correspondence to her previous address but it didnt act on her request. I appreciate Tesco  
has processes in place  to protect their customers  and that it couldnt  change her address 
over the phone. But Miss T had answered security questions to discuss her account when 
she called  each time. So I think its unfair to say she wasnt verified. Given  the reason Ms T 
asked to amend  her address  and that shed advised  Tesco she was separated from her 
husband who remained at the property I think it shouldve taken steps to suspend  
correspondence. 
Tesco is free to set its processes and decide what security measures to put in place. But if 
those processes mean a customer is treated unfairly  I have to take that into account when 
deciding how to deal with a complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete Ill make my decision based on the balance of probabilities. 
That is, what I consider  most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence.  In 
this case, Im satisfied  Ms T sent Tesco a number of letters asking to change  her address 
but they werent acted on. In addition, I think Tesco couldve  done more to try and resolve 
the situation during earlier  contact with Ms T. And I dont think  its fair that despite  passing 
telephone security Ms Ts request to suspend correspondence wasnt  acted upon. Given the 
above, I think the £150 the adjudicators asked Tesco to pay is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Tesco  Personal Finance  PLC to pay 
Ms T £150. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9408476