K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  correctly carry out his chargeback request in 
regard to a property purchase.
background
Mr K placed  a successful  bid for a property at auction in November 2017 and was required 
to pay 10% of the sale price as deposit and the auction fee, totalling £22,600. He paid this 
using his debit  card. Mr K then submitted a mortgage application for the property and had a 
survey carried  out in December 2017. He says the survey said the property was defective  
and not suitable for a mortgage.
Mr K contacted the auction house  about the issue and was told it wasnt aware of any issues 
with the property and that Mr Ks deposit  had been transferred to the property seller. Mr K 
carried out further checks on the property  and says that he found various issues  with the 
property that hadnt  been mentioned in the auction pack. He contacted the auctioneers  to 
request a refund but this wasnt provided.  
In March 2018, Mr K contacted HSBC to request a chargeback. HSBC  initially refunded him 
the £22,600 on 26 March 2018. Following this he says he contacted  HSBC  but didnt  get any 
update on his dispute. Two months  later he says he went into a HSBC branch to ask for his 
account to be closed. This happened  on 27 May 2018. He says he continued to contact 
HSBC about the dispute  but he still didnt get an answer.
In June 2018, Mr K raised a complaint. He was then contacted and told his dispute  had been 
declined and he was asked if he was in a position to repay the £22,600 that had been 
refunded. Mr K says he asked for further information  about  the process that had been 
followed in regard to his dispute.  He was then told his complaint was going  to be reviewed 
but was then again told it had been declined and was asked to repay the £22,600.
Mr K asked for a full report on his dispute  and says that the report  he was sent showed that 
the wrong dispute code had been used  and that his dispute had been declined as the code  
used was not applicable  for his type of transaction. Mr K told HSBC  he intended to bring his 
complaint to the ombudsman service and asked  that the money wasnt  reclaimed until a 
decision had been made. He says that this was agreed.
In July 2018, Mr K received an email  from HSBC stating his account  had been opened even  
though he hadnt applied  for this. On 9 August 2018,  Mr K says he was sent an email saying 
that the £22,600 would be taken from his account in the next day or so. He checked  the 
account on 10 August  and the £22,600 had been removed. Mr K contacted  HSBC  about the 
agreement to wait to reclaim the funds and was told that HSBC couldnt wait any longer. 
Mr K says he made a payment into the account  to cover the removed funds to ensure his 
credit file wasnt affected.
Mr K says that had HSBC  used the correct  dispute  code when applying  the chargeback 
process it would  have been able to recover the funds. He says this issue has put him in a 
difficult financial situation and caused him stress.
HSBC says that Mr K was expected  to carry out his due diligence as per the auction terms. It 
says it tried to assist Mr K by applying a misrepresentation chargeback code to the 
Ref: DRN91494472transaction but this claim was rejected by the sellers bank saying that the dispute couldnt 
be considered  as a misrepresentation. It says that it made a further attempt to recover the 
funds but this wasnt successful. It says it didnt reclaim the refund straight  away but allowed 
a reasonable amount of time before reclaiming  the funds.
HSBC says that it was not recording any adverse information in regard to Mr Ks account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She explained that the chargeback process  is 
not an automatic  right for consumers but that it is seen as good  practice  for banks  to 
consider whether or not to carry out a chargeback. She said that whether or not the 
chargeback is successful is dependent on the card schemes rules.
In this case our investigator noted that HSBC  attempted  a chargeback on three occasions. 
This was rejected  because of the type of transaction as it was said it didnt fall within the 
requirements. She noted Mr Ks concerns about  the code used for the chargeback  but 
thought that given the other information (specifically  the type of transaction and contracts 
involved), the chargeback wouldnt have been  successful.  She didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong  in this process.
She also thought  that HSBC had given  Mr K sufficient time before removing the refunded 
money from his account and that the process  it went through, that is re-opening Mr Ks 
account, hadnt caused Mr K any detrimental  impact.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators  view. He reiterated that he believed HSBC  had used 
the wrong chargeback code on the attempts it had made to recover the money. He said that 
this was the reason why the chargeback  wasnt successful. Mr K said he believed the correct 
code to be 53.1 and that had this been used  the chargeback process could have  continued 
and possibly been successful.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been explained, chargebacks are decided based on the card schemes rules rather 
than the relative  merits of the dispute  and so in deciding this complaint I have considered the 
actions undertaken  by HSBC and whether these have caused  any loss or additional  difficulty  
to Mr K.
In this case, Mr K raised the issue with HSBC in March 2018. In a letter  dated  26 March 
2018, HSBC said that Mr Ks account would be credited  with the disputed amount (£22,600) 
while the issue was investigated. It explained  that the retailer  had 60 days to respond to the 
dispute and that it would let Mr K know if his dispute was not successful and the credit would 
need to be removed. 
In the chargeback form HSBC recorded  the dispute  reason  as code 53, that is not as 
described or defective  merchandise. It then included further information about  the property 
being misrepresented.
The chargeback was not successful. It was explained the claim was made under reason 
code 53 condition 6, terms of sale misrepresented and that the card schemes rules sated 
this could only be used  for certain transactions and that this transaction fell outside  of the 
Ref: DRN91494473chargeback condition and so the claim was invalid. HSBC responded to this initiating a pre-
arbitration. This was not accepted and it was reiterated that the transaction didnt fall within  
the schemes rights and limitation for the chargeback condition. A further attempt was made  
after the timeframe had expired.
Having considered the actions taken by HSBC in this case  I find that it did make reasonable 
attempts to assist  Mr K with his chargeback  claim. 
Mr K says that the wrong  code was used and that it should have been  reason 53.1.  I have 
considered the information Mr K provided  to HSBC in support of his chargeback  claim and I 
think that HSBC took a reasonable  approach  by applying the reason code it did. It acts in 
these cases on a best efforts basis and I think it fulfilled the requirements on it. 
I have looked  at the card scheme  rules  and reason codes and note Mr Ks concern about the 
code that was used. However, given the nature  of his transaction,  that is the purchase of a 
property through  auction, I do not find that I can safely say the use of another code, namely 
53.1, would have  meant  a different  outcome. I say this because the payment was a deposit 
following the purchase of a property which was subject to auction conditions. Auction  
conditions generally  set out that inspections, searches and advice from professionals  such 
as a surveyor should be sought  before acquisition. The auction  further  sets out that to the 
extent permitted by law the buyer acknowledges there is no duty of care and no claim for 
loss. Given this, I do not find I can say that the claim would have been successful if reason 
53.1 was used.
Based on the above I find that HSBC  did do what would  be reasonably expected  of it in 
regard to Mr Ks chargeback claim.
Mr K has also noted that he was told the refunded money would not be reclaimed until his 
complaint had been decided and that his account was re-opened without his authority. Mr K 
was then contacted in August to say the funds  would  be removed and when he checked  the 
account the next day this had happened. I understand why Mr K wished to have a resolution 
to his complaint  before  further  action was taken, however I think  that HSBC did provide him 
with a reasonable amount  of time before the funds were reclaimed. The funds were credited 
to his account in March  2018 and not removed until August during which time more than one 
attempt at a chargeback had been  declined.
In regard to the account being reopened, HSBC  has explained that this was the better  way 
of dealing the situation. Mr K had closed the account  even though the dispute hadnt been 
resolved and he was aware that if his claim wasnt accepted then the funds would be 
reclaimed. I am not aware that Mr K has been caused any material  adverse impact  due to 
the process that was undertaken and HSBC has said that no adverse information was 
recorded on his credit file at that time. Therefore, on balance, I do not require HSBC  to do 
anything further  in regard to this part of Mr Ks complaint.
Overall, while  I understand why Mr K is upset that his chargeback claim was not successful I 
find that HSBC did do what was expected of it I regard to processing his claim.  I know  this 
will be a disappointment  to Mr K but I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN91494474my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9149447