K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz)  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs H took out a store card in 1989. At the same  time she was sold a PPI policy  which 
wouldve covered  the repayments on her card if she couldnt work due to an accident, 
sickness or involuntary unemployment.
Mrs H says she didnt agree to buy the PPI. She says she didnt need the policy  and didnt 
choose to buy it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Hs complaint  should be upheld. Mrs H disagrees, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
Mrs H completed  an application form  she received  in store. Allianz  has provided a copy of 
this form. On the form there was a separate section  for PPI and theres  a tick in the box to 
indicate Mrs H wants it. Mrs H signed  the form. 
Mrs H says that she didnt  tick the box to agree  to the PPI. Its nearly 30 years  since  the form 
was completed and I think it would be difficult to remember something like filling out a form 
so clearly. The PPI appeared each month on Mrs Hs statement. I think  if she hadnt  ticked 
the box herself and a third party had completed it at a later time, then Mrs H wouldve raised 
this as a problem with Allianz when she first saw the PPI on her statements. Mrs H kept the 
PPI for nearly 15 years. So, on balance, on the information I have, I think  its more likely that 
Mrs H bought the PPI knowing  she had a choice about it. 
Allianz didnt give Mrs H a personal  recommendation to buy the PPI, so it didnt have  to take 
steps to make sure it was right for her. It was up to Mrs H to decide  if she wanted or needed  
it. But Allianz did have  to give Mrs H all the information she needed to make an informed 
decision. 
I think its likely Allianz didnt give Mrs H all the information she needed. But this doesnt 
mean I should automatically uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I need  to consider whether Mrs H 
wouldve acted differently if shed had all the information she needed. 
Looking at Mrs Hs circumstances I dont  think more information wouldve changed her mind 
about buying it. I think its likely Mrs H understood the policy would pay a benefit if she 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Mrs H chose to take out the PPI, it seems she was 
interested in this type of cover in addition to her existing resources.
Ref: DRN95428832It doesnt look like Mrs H was affected by any of the terms which mightve  made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances   so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I havent  seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs 
H.
The cost of the policy was lower than most  policies  offering a similar  benefit  around the 
same time. It was flexible  because it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty, and I havent seen anything  to suggest  it was unaffordable for Mrs H.
So, on balance, I think Mrs H wouldve still bought  the policy if shed  understood all the 
information about it. I dont think Mrs H lost out as a result of anything Allianz did wrong
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint, so it follows that Allianz Insurance  Plc doesnt have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9542883