K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
around the latter part of the 1990s.  Mr and Mrs S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold them 
PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs S circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
But I will highlight that its not entirely clear when  Mr and Mrs S first took out PPI as I alluded  
to above. Their mortgage started in 1996  - but the first record of a policy  Santander has is in 
1998. That said, one of the pieces  of paperwork from this time suggests this was a 
replacement to an existing policy. Because of this I think its reasonable to assume  that 
Mr and Mrs S likely took out PPI at or around the same time as their mortgage.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs S representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss.
I havent set out that detailed information here but Ive taken  into account all relevant 
considerations in deciding  Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Santander had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs S that PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs S say 
they didnt know  they had PPI. Having carefully  considered things, I think, on balance,  
Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. 
Ref: DRN92764662I say this because,  while  Santander  no longer  has copies of Mr and Mrs S mortgage  
paperwork from the time, it has provided  an example PPI application,  which it says is 
representative of what Mr and Mrs S would have needed to complete to take out their 
policy. And this included a separate direct  debit mandate to authorise the PPI premiums  
to be taken from their bank account. 
Im mindful too that as I alluded  to earlier, Santander  has a copy of a letter  Mr and Mrs S 
were sent in 1998, which says they had been  accepted for cover  and that it replaced 
their previously underwritten policy with no break in the cover provided. If Mr and Mrs S 
hadnt chosen to take out the original policy then I think this letter would have prompted 
them to have queried things with Santander at this time.
I can see Mr and Mrs S have gone  on to say that a few years  after the mortgage started 
(theyve not been more specific about the date)  Mr S suffered an accident but didnt 
claim on the policy. And they say this is evidence they didnt know they had PPI. But not 
only does the evidence Ive described above  suggest otherwise, not making a claim isnt 
in and of itself evidence they didnt know they had it. Its possible for example that Mr S 
accident happened after Mr and Mrs S cancelled the policy  in 2001,  which  could 
reasonably be described as a few years after their mortgage started. 
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that 
something very different happened in Mr and Mrs S case, I think its likely they chose  to 
take out PPI and did so without undue pressure.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S - so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs S circumstances at the time,  shows  
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr and 
Mrs S were eligible  for the cover and they didnt have any real means  of making  their 
mortgage payments  if they found  themselves unable to work  neither of them were 
entitled to any enhanced  sick pay and they said they didnt have  any savings to fall back  
on. So I think they had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs S employment or occupation which would have  
made it difficult for them to claim. And they havent told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could  affect  their ability to claim. And while  Mr and Mrs S told us 
that bad backs  were common place in their jobs, there were no additional  restrictions on 
cover for back problems (or mental  health conditions.)
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been  for example the available evidence doesnt  show  that the cost and 
benefit of the policy  was clearly disclosed or that the exclusions and limitations were 
clearly brought  to Mr and Mrs S attention. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - 
so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs S as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were  buying from the information they 
were likely given. While  Mr and Mrs S say they could barely afford  the mortgage let 
alone the PPI, at under £8 a month  Ive not seen anything else which makes me think  it 
wasnt affordable. So it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went  
wrong. Because of this I dont  think Mr and Mrs S would have declined  the cover had 
Santander done anything more.
Ref: DRN92764663Overall, I consider it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs S would  have still taken out PPI. I 
think the policy could  provide a useful benefit  in a difficult time, given their circumstances at 
the time.  I also think the policy  was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were 
getting. And in those  circumstances, I consider it more  likely than not that they would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs S representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander  should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs S representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs S individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs S particular  case. 
But these  points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means  Santander  doesnt have to do anything to put things right. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs S complaint  so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9276466