K820x#14complaint
B, a club, complains about how HSBC UK Bank  Plc handled its request to change  its 
accounts signature mandate.
background
Mr O, Mr A and Mr W, three officers  of the club and the authorised signatories on the new 
signature mandate, represent B in its complaint.
In September  2018 Mr O, Mr A and Mr W asked HSBC to change  the mandate for its 
account by adding Mr A and Mr W as new signatories. When they didnt hear from HSBC, 
they contacted  it again, only to be told initially that HSBC had no record of receiving the 
request. Then they were  told (wrongly, as it turned  out) that the identification one of them 
had provided to change the mandate was not sufficient. After some  back and forth the new 
mandate was set up in October  using the information originally provided (a driving licence) 
 after a full month of delays. Why the driving licence had not been accepted  in the first 
place remains unexplained.
The three signatories of the new mandate suggested that HSBC had acted in a way that had 
embarrassed and humiliated  them, and had also discriminated against  one of them  who was 
vulnerable because of some  medical  conditions and a learning disability. They also 
suggested that as a result of HSBCs actions the signatories ran up costs, which included 
their refreshments  during their visits to the bank. They  told us B had incurred additional 
administrative overheads,  and that members  had lost confidence in the club,  causing  
reduced attendance.  They  added that HSBC had breached data protection  law by losing the 
original application,  and by sending a letter  directly  to Mr A before he had been approved as 
a signatory. Moreover they suggested  that HSBCs actions had damaged Bs reputation and 
caused conflict within B.
HSBCs replied that Mr A had not at first provided  acceptable identification documents  for 
the new mandate. It said when the correct  documents were provided it updated the 
mandate. It explained  that a letter had been returned undelivered from Bs address,  so it had 
put restrictions on the account while it looked  into what  had happened,  and meanwhile had 
sent correspondence to Mr A. It didnt agree that it had breached  data protection legislation. 
It referred B to where it could find HSBCs policies on inclusion and diversity.
However HSBC did realise  that there  had been some unnecessary delay, so it offered B 
£300, plus £50 in gift vouchers for Bs inconvenience. Being dissatisfied  with that offer,  the 
new signatories brought this complaint to our Service, on behalf  of B.
Two of our investigators considered this complaint, but they did not uphold it. They said the 
new mandate had been  delayed because HSBC had declined  to accept a driving licence 
which it had accepted later on, and that this had not been the signatories fault, so the delay 
had been avoidable and had not been  adequately  explained. But they thought the 
compensation HSBC  had already offered for this was fair. They also said it hadnt been  
unreasonable of HSBC  to write  to Mr A when its mail to B was returned undelivered, but it 
might have avoided  some delay if HSBC  had also written to the other signatories. They said 
the original mandate form had been lost in the post,  and that hadnt been  HSBCs fault,  so 
HSBC had had to ask the signatories to fill in a second one. They said it was not their role to 
decide whether  a breach  of data protection law had occurred, and that this would be a 
Ref: DRN99310042matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). They didnt  think there was enough 
evidence to conclude  that Mr A had been discriminated against.
In coming to their decision that the compensation HSBC  had offered was fair, the 
investigators took into account  the fact that the club  not the signatories  was the 
complainant in this case, and so the signatories  could not be compensated in their own right 
for the own distress or inconvenience.  Mr O asked for clarification about that point.
Mr O also suggested that HSBC had discriminated against Mr A racially, since British identity 
documents had been accepted without question,  and only foreign documents had been 
challenged. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
introduction
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to take this opportunity to apologise  to both parties, and to all three  signatories,  
for how long it has taken for this complaint to be dealt with. There has been a very large  
backlog in complaints at this Service for some time, and cases  are generally  allocated to 
ombudsmen in order of when they were  first brought to us. I am grateful to all concerned for 
their patience.
Having considered this complaint, I agree that HSBC caused an unnecessary delay,  but 
I think that the compensation it has already offered is fair, and so I will not order it to pay 
more. For that reason,  I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
(I have not considered a later complaint  about events occurring in 2019, but have confined  
myself to the matters  which  were brought to us in December 2018.)
complaint issues
It isnt clear why Mr As driving licence was not accepted when it was originally  produced. 
There is a contemporaneous letter from HSBC to Mr A indicating that there  was a discussion 
about it at the time, but it does not elaborate further. HSBC  has conceded that it is unable to 
defend that initial decision, since the same licence  was accepted a month later,  and so it 
accepts that it probably made a mistake. Based on the evidence available,  I think  that was a 
sensible concession to make. So I proceed on the basis that the delay could have been 
avoided, and that the new signature  mandate could have been completed in late September.  
I will come  back to the issue of compensation later.
I dont think there is enough evidence for me to agree that this was the result  of 
discrimination, whether  on the basis of race, nationality, or one or more  of Mr As health 
conditions. That is not just because of an absence of information about  why his driving 
licence was initially rejected, but also because of what  we know about  the other identity 
documents he provided. Mr As surname began with an A on his residence permit  and on his 
own bank statements (and also on his driving  licence), but it began with an E on his 
passport. I accept that there is a reasonable and innocent explanation for this (his name can 
be translated from Arabic into English with either spelling), but a discrepancy like that was 
always likely to have to be investigated  by any bank. So I dont think  the problem was that 
Ref: DRN99310043Mr A was relying on documents from another country, but because there was that slight  
difference between  them.  Since, as Ive said, the driving licence was later accepted as 
sufficient proof, I think that should have been the outcome in the first place, but I dont  think 
that is enough for me to infer that HSBC  acted in bad faith. I do not accept that HSBC  
discriminated against Mr A either  directly  or indirectly based on any protected  characteristic  
as defined in the Equality Act 2010.
It is not clear  why correspondence  posted to B was not delivered, but I cannot conclude that 
this was HSBCs fault, since it is not liable for the post. When  post is returned undelivered, it 
is standard practice for a bank to stop sending letters to that address until it has been 
verified. In the meantime,  HSBC sent a letter directly to Mr A at his home address, even 
though HSBC had not yet added him to Bs account  mandate. I understand why B complains 
about that, but after considering this issue  I do not think  that HSBC  acted  unreasonably.  B 
had already authorised Mr A to represent it, even though HSBC hadnt authorised him at its 
end. Its letter  had not disclosed any confidential  information, except the names of Mr O and 
Mr W, which he already  knew. So I dont think there was any prejudice  caused to B by this, 
or to Mr O or to Mr W. Whether  there  was a data protection breach is a matter for the ICO, 
but I do not uphold Bs complaint about this letter.
I dont think that writing to Mr O and Mr W at the same time would have made any difference  
to how long it took to resolve the matter.  The main purpose of the letter  was to ask Mr A to 
submit further evidence to verify his own identity, and the other signatories were  in no 
position to do that. To that extent,  I disagree with the first investigator.
The original  mandate form went missing  and so a second one was requested.  It wasnt  
unreasonable to request one. The need  should not have  arisen  in the first place, but it isnt 
HSBCs fault if it was lost in the post.  It does not appear to have caused any delay (the delay 
being caused by the reason  I have already described), but it did occasion an avoidable visit 
to the bank, so I can see why the signatories  have raised this matter in this complaint. I will 
not comment on whether  this is a data protection breach, as that is properly a matter  for the 
ICO, but there is no evidence that the information fell into the hands of any third party, or that 
HSBC was responsible.
compensation
The jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman  Service is set out in rules made by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), and I am required  to follow those rules;  I have no 
discretion to depart from them. Under the rules (published  in a chapter of the FCA Handbook 
called Dispute Resolution: Complaints), a person can only bring a complaint if they have a 
relationship with the business the complaint  is about, and the complaint arises from that 
relationship. Not every relationship qualifies.
There is an exhaustive list of kinds of relationship  which can make  a person an eligible 
complainant. The first item on the list, and the only one which I think  could be relevant to this 
complaint, is customer  that is to say, only HSBCs customers can complain about HSBC. 
Here, HSBCs customer is B, the club, since the bank  account is held in Bs name. The three  
signatories represent B, and they are the officers of the club who B has authorised  to look 
after the account, withdraw  money from the account or deposit money in it, and give HSBC 
instructions about  it. The signatories can also represent B in a complaint to HSBC or to our 
Service. But they are not customers  in their own right, so they cannot  complain  in their own 
right (at least as far as Bs account  is concerned anyway; if they have  their own HSBC  
Ref: DRN99310044accounts they can complain about  those, but still not about Bs). They can only complain on 
behalf of B, about things that affect  B.
This means  that although  I have been  told that Mr A, Mr O and Mr W were  inconvenienced  
and embarrassed  by what happened, I cannot award  them compensation for their own 
trouble. I can only award B for what happened to B. It follows  that I cant  award 
compensation for the cost of the signatories  refreshments while  they visited  a branch of 
HSBC, for example,  or for the inconvenience of having to visit a branch to sign a second 
mandate form, or for any aggravating  effect on Mr As health.
I also think that compensation  for the delay should be restricted  to the effects which  were  
foreseeable. Here, I am not persuaded that HSBC could reasonably have foreseen that so 
many people would desert the club so quickly, as a result  of the changes to the mandate  
being held up by about a month.
Therefore, for the delay in updating the signature mandate,  I think that £300 is in line with 
the level of award  this Service would typically make, and I will not require HSBC to do more. 
(I believe  that the £50 vouchers have  already  been  provided, and I have taken  these into 
account.)
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. I leave  it to Mr O, Mr A and Mr W to 
decide, on behalf of B, whether to accept HSBC UK Bank Plcs offer of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2021.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9931004