K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Pounds to Pocket) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  July 2019. An 
extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint in part, in 
relation to the second and third times  Mrs M refinanced her Pounds to Pocket loan. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Pounds to Pocket 
let us know it didnt  have anything to add and Mrs M agreed with my provisional  findings.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  been  given any further information to make me think otherwise,  I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
It follows that I uphold  this complaint in relation to the refinanced  loans taken in July 2013 
and November 2013.
putting things right  what Pounds to Pocket needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs M paid on the refinanced loans taken in July 2013 
and November 2013;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the refinanced loan taken in July 2013 from 
Mrs Ms credit file;
remove all entries about  the refinanced loan taken in November 2013 from Mrs Ms 
credit file. The length of time shed borrowed for by this point onwards means any 
information recorded about it is adverse.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Pounds to Pocket to take off tax from this interest. Pounds  to 
Pocket must  give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN99919352my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint in 
relation to the second and third refinanced  loans  (taken in July 2013 and November 2013). I 
require CashEuroNet  UK LLC put things  right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99919353EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED JULY  2019
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending  including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice   on our website. 
Pounds to Pocket  needed to take reasonable  steps to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure 
Mrs M could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and Mrs Ms 
income and expenditure.  With this in mind,  in the early stages  of a lending  relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Pounds to Pocket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for Mrs M. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Its important for me to start by saying that Pounds to Pocket was required to establish  whether  Mrs M 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable  on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. In particular, 
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time while meeting  other reasonable 
commitments. They  should also be able to make their repayments without having to borrow  further. It 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Having thought about everything,  I havent  seen  enough  to make me think  that Pounds to Pocket 
shouldnt have lent the initial loan to Mrs M, or allowed her to refinance for the first time. 
But thats not to say that I think Pounds to Pocket got everything right at that time. Ill explain why.
As Ive said,  its reasonable  for a lender to ask fewer questions, or to do less thorough checks, 
towards the start of a lending relationship. But what it does should  still be proportionate to the 
borrowing and the circumstances surrounding it.
Ref: DRN99919354From what Ive seen, Pounds to Pocket  asked Mrs M about her income when she applied for these 
two loans, which she gave  as about £1,200. And I understand that it checked her credit file when she 
first asked for a loan. But it hasnt shown that it asked any other questions  such as for information 
about her monthly  outgoings.  Given  the relative  size of the loan repayments,  as well as the fact that 
they were to be repaid  over an extended period of time, I think  it wouldve  been proportionate Pounds  
to Pocket to do that. 
Mrs M has explained that her financial situation was strained at the time she was borrowing  from 
Pounds to Pocket  and I note she says she was also borrowing from other short-term  (or payday) 
lenders to service her debts.  Shes also provided a copy of her credit report. 
I can certainly see that Mrs M did, over time, use a number of other payday lenders fairly  frequently. 
But having considered the dates in question, it doesnt look as though that was the case  in the early  
stages of her relationship with Pounds to Pocket,  in 2012 and early 2013. So I think that even if 
Pounds to Pocket  had asked Mrs M about her monthly expenditure and all her financial commitments 
on these occasions, it most likely wouldve still lent to her. So I dont think it was unfair  for Pounds to 
Pocket to lend to Mrs M in June 2012 and May 2013.
By the time Mrs M borrowed from Pounds to Pocket for the third time, the gap between applications 
had become significantly shorter (around two months) and Mrs M was asking for additional funds, to 
be repaid over the same term as she initially  borrowed for. So in effect,  she was borrowing extra  and 
extending the amount of time she had to repay it. I note that Miss M repaid about £150 of the capital 
of her second loan, then asked  for this further amount  of £140.
Given these circumstances,  and bearing in mind  that by this point Pounds  to Pocket still doesnt 
appear to have asked Mrs M about her outgoings, I think it shouldve done more to get a better 
understanding of her overall financial situation. Had it done that, it wouldve realised Mrs M was 
relying on short-term  credit  to service her debts,  and in turn struggling  to pay for her general living 
costs.
A proportionate check for the refinanced loan taken  in July 2013  would most  likely have shown that 
Mrs M:
ohad a monthly mortgage  repayment of around £900
ohad been borrowing  from other payday lenders (and Pounds  to Pocket) repeatedly for 
an extended period  of time
ocouldnt sustainably  repay her loans without needing to borrow again  to cover the 
shortfall left by doing so
In response to Mrs Ms complaint, Pounds to Pocket said:
Our affordability assessments also integrates a variation of unique customer specific variables  as 
well as using verified information obtained from the applicant, we also consider an applicants  credit-
scoring information  from Credit Reference Agencies
But from what  Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Pounds to Pocket  did any of that at this stage  in the 
lending relationship. So Im intending to uphold Mrs Ms complaint about the time she refinanced her 
loan in July 2013.
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Mrs Ms lending  history with Pounds to Pocket, with a view to 
seeing if there  was a point at which  Pounds to Pocket should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Thats to say, a point at which Pounds  to Pocket  
should have realised  that it shouldnt have provided  any further loans  to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN99919355Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ms case, I think that this point was reached by the third 
time she refinanced  her loan, in November 2013. I say this because:
The refinanced loan (which included further additional funds) in November  2013 was provided  
to Mrs M within four months of her previously refinancing and taking additional funds. I can 
see that shed repaid about £120  of this loan before  asking for a capital  advance  of £105. So 
Pounds to Pocket  ought  to have  realised  it was more likely than not Mrs M was having  to 
borrow further  to cover  the hole making  her other loan repayments was leaving in her 
finances. This in turn wouldve led it to realise  that Mrs Ms indebtedness was most likely 
increasing unsustainably.
Mrs M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Pounds  to Pocket. The 
refinance in November 2013 happened 17 months after Mrs M first borrowed  from Pounds  to 
Pocket. So given the number of refinances and additional  funds, 
Mrs M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Pounds  to Pocket 
over an extended period.
So I think that Pounds to Pocket shouldve realised that the overall  pattern of lending was 
unsustainable before  it lent to Mrs M again in November  2013.  And I think that Mrs M lost out 
because Pounds to Pocket lent to her again at that point. I say this because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mrs Ms indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer amount  of time she borrowed from and spent  repaying Pounds  to Pocket  was likely 
to have had negative implications on Mrs Ms ability  to access  mainstream credit and so kept 
her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im also intending to uphold the complaint about the refinance  in November 2013  and intend  to tell 
Pounds to Pocket  to put things right with that one too.
Ref: DRN9991935