K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Indigo Michael  Limited (trading as SafetyNet Credit) (SafetyNet) 
incorrectly took an additional payment from his bank account. Mr B says this left him with no 
money to pay for living costs. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  21 May 2019.  
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  SafetyNet didnt respond to the 
provisional decision and so hasnt provided  any additional information.  Mr B told us that he 
accepted the findings  of the provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has accepted the findings of the provisional  decision, and SafetyNet  hasnt  responded, 
so I dont know what, if anything it disagrees with. However, no new information  has been 
provided so I see no reason to depart from the findings and outcome I reached in the 
provisional decision. 
what SafetyNet should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mr B, SafetyNet should:
refund the interest SafetyNet says was charged to the account during this time 
(£24.43).
Pay £150 for the trouble  and upset caused. 
remove any adverse information SafetyNet recorded on Mr Bs credit  file as a result of 
the duplicate payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97659752EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr B is unhappy  that Indigo Michael  Limited (trading  as SafetyNet Credit) (SafetyNet)  incorrectly took 
an additional payment from his bank account. Mr B says this left him with no money  to pay for living 
costs. 
background
SafetyNet correctly debited £952.21 from Mr Bs account on 25 April 2018 and this was a payment he 
was expecting to be taken. However,  on 28 April 2018, a third party acting  on behalf of SafetyNet 
incorrectly debited another amount of £952.21.   As a result of this second  payment it put Mr Bs 
account significantly overdrawn. 
On 8 May 2018 SafetyNet emailed  Mr B and told him a technical  fault led to a processing  error, which  
resulted in a duplicate payment being taken. 
The final response  letter was sent to Mr B on 3 July 2018. Again, SafetyNet told Mr B that the 
duplicate payment  error was as a result of the third party. At this point, it provided a payment of £20 
as a goodwill gesture to reflect the fact Mr B had incurred  bank charges. This goodwill payment 
amount was based on the evidence  Mr B had provided. 
Not happy with SafetyNets response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. At which  point 
SafetyNet increased  its offer to £44.43 (a further payment  of £24.43), this offer took into account any 
interest Mr B may have been charged. 
One of our adjudicators  assessed  Mr Bs complaint and based on the information that he had to 
hand, he concluded that an error had been made by SafetyNet. He also thought  that once the 
problem was known it couldve done more to assist Mr B. Indeed,  there appears to be a four day gap 
between the money being returned and SafetyNet writing  to Mr B to tell him the problem had been 
fixed. So in order to put things right the adjudicator  recommended that SafetyNet  carry  out the 
following actions;
pay the additional £24.43, which  SafetyNet had already offered
remove any adverse  credit file information that may have been recorded between  
28 April 2018 and 4 May 2018 and 
pay £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
SafetyNet agreed  with the adjudicators findings.  
However, Mr B didnt accept the offer,  he says that banks could charge  more  per day for an 
unarranged overdraft  and so didnt think the refund  was fair. He also said his health is worth more 
than the £50 offered. 
No agreement could be reached so the case  has been passed  to me for al decision.  
I understand Mr B also has a complaint with our service about his bank in relation to this incident. But, 
to be clear, in this decision I am only focusing on the actions of SafetyNet  and I make no comment or 
finding on the actions of Mr Bs bank.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  And having done so, Im intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint.  And 
Ive explained why below.
Ref: DRN97659753To begin with, Id like to address Mr Bs concern around the duplicate payment  being taken was an 
act of fraud. There is no dispute that Mr B was left without funds  as a result of a problem  with 
SafetyNets processing  company. And it seems  that SafetyNet accepts  that an error was made. Given  
this has already been agreed, in this decision Im only going to be focusing on what SafetyNet  should 
do in order to put things right for Mr B. 
Whether SafetyNet  did or did not receive the additional payment doesnt have any bearing on the 
outcome that Ive reached. Ultimately, a second  amount of money was taken  from Mr Bs account  in 
error.  
So, what I need to consider, in light of Mr Bs comments, is whether  the redress proposed by the 
adjudicator is fair and reasonable, considering the facts  of Mr Bs case. 
financial loss
Ive read Mr Bs submissions carefully and I can understand  why he wants SafetyNet  fined or 
sanctioned for its error. But our service doesnt have the power to do that. This service  was set up to 
independently resolve complaints between a customer and a financial business. Our role is not to 
police the industry or to fine a lender when something  has gone wrong. Instead, what we are able to 
do, is to make awards to a consumer who has been impacted  by an error of a business. 
I accept that Mr B appears to have been caused a financial loss as a result of the duplicate payment, 
which included interest and charges being applied to the account. However, SafetyNet  has already 
offered a refund  of these charges, and I consider  this to be fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking  
SafetyNet to do anything else in relation to the fees and charges Mr B incurred. 
In any event, it would appear that Mr Bs bank  hasnt charged him any interest for using an 
unauthorised overdraft due to the way that SafetyNet  returned the funds back  into his account. So I 
dont think there is any further financial loss here. 
trouble and upset
Turing to the matter  of trouble and upset recommended, I can appreciate  why the adjudicator  felt that 
in the circumstances  £50 was a reasonable  amount  to award. However, based on what  Mr B has told 
us, along with what I can see on the bank statements for the affected account I dont believe this 
amount to be sufficient. So Im intending to ask SafetyNet to increase the award.  
Mr B has been consistent  in what he has told us about the impact on him of finding  out the duplicate 
payment had been made. He said this caused him distress and left him no money for living costs such  
as transportation or food.  He also said that he has no immediate family support, so was left to try and 
sort this problem out on his own, which  overall was understandably stressful for him. And like the 
adjudicator, I agree that SafetyNet couldve  done  more to assist Mr B during this time.  
I can also understand that finding out the duplicate payment had been taken  wouldve  caused Mr B 
concern about what was happening to his account,  and he was clearly worried that his bank  account 
had been compromised by someone. 
Overall, taking into account the reasons  the adjudicator outlined in their assessment, along  with what 
Mr B has told this service, I dont think the £50 initially offered adequately reflects the trouble  and 
upset Mr B was caused.  Taking into account  what happened I consider  a more reasonable payment  
to be £150. 
Ref: DRN9765975