K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK Plc allowed  someone access his mothers  accounts
without legal authority  prior to her sadly passing  away. He thinks Santander should pay
compensation for its failure to protect Mrs W.
Background
Much of what follows repeats the same background facts I relayed in my provisional  decision 
issued in January  2021. Ive repeated much of those  same facts  for the purposes of this final 
decision.
Mrs W was a long-standing customer of Santander, holding various accounts with them,
including a current account, savings accounts  and bonds.
Mrs W was taken ill and admitted to hospital in November 2017,  after which she didnt return
to her home. She was admitted to a care home  in early January 2018, where she stayed
until she passed away in August 2019.
Mr W was initially  unaware his mother had moved to a care home. He says one of his
daughters took over his mothers affairs, financial and domestic, without having the legal
authority to represent  her.
Mrs W suffered  from a form dementia. Several pieces of evidence  have been presented  that
reveal medical professionals assessed  Mrs W capacity on several occasions. They  found
she was unable to control her affairs  or understand simple information. Her capacity was
affected to this extent  from at least December 2017. A deputy was eventually appointed by
the Court  of Protection  to look after Mrs Ws financial  affairs in early  2019.
Mr W began  corresponding with Santander about his mother  in January 2018.  He was
concerned about  the accounts she held with Santander. And he says his mother wanted him
to be her contact in relation to her accounts,  which Santander was told when he and his
mother visited a branch in 2016. But Santander  refused to discuss  Mrs Ws mothers
accounts with him, without proper legal authority.
Mr Ws concern  is Santander took instruction from his daughter in regard to Mrs Ws
accounts from November  2017 until the point a deputy was appointed. He says Santander
did so without a valid authority in place, which was a profound breach of Santanders duty of
care towards his mother. He says one of Mrs Ws bonds was encashed early and direct
debits and cheques  were paid when they shouldnt have been.  He also thinks  payments 
were made for insurance policies that Mrs W didnt  agree to.
Mr W also thinks Santander treated him unfairly and rudely and he too should be 
compensated for the stress and effort he put into trying  to resolve this matter.
In July 2020 an investigator  at our service decided  to dismiss Mr Ws complaint. They  found:
-Mr W was authorised  by law to bring a complaint  on behalf of the estate of Mrs Ws.
He was named  as one of the executors  on Mrs Ws will.
Mr Ws daughter   the same daughter he alleges took charge of his mothers affairs
Ref: DRN97618552without any authority  was also an executor.  She was also a beneficiary  under the
will.
-The complaint  should be dismissed, and its merits not considered.  Our service has
this discretion under the dispute resolution rules  that govern our powers and
jurisdiction.
-The complaint  wasnt appropriate to consider because any award we might  otherwise
make if the merits of the complaint  were considered would be due to Mrs Ws estate.
So, the person  who may be responsible for Mrs Ws loss could doubly benefit by
virtue of their position as executor  and beneficiary.
Mr W rejected  the outcome the investigator reached. He said the investigator failed to
account for the seriousness of Santanders  breach of duty towards  his mother.
The investigator clarified that dismissing the complaint meant  they hadnt looked  into the
merits of the complaint. Mr W responded saying his daughter couldnt  benefit from any
award. Under the will, she had no entitlement to an award made to the estate. Neither  could 
she control any sum without his agreement as joint executor.
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter, so the complaint was passed  to me.
I considered the complaint and decided  not to dismiss. Instead, I considered the merits of 
the complaint  and provisionally decided to uphold it. But I wasnt  inclined to award  redress  to 
Mrs Ws estate  or to Mr W. 
I have copied  my provisional findings  below:
Dismissal and jurisdiction
I am not dismissing  the complaint. I understand the person Mr W alleges  to have acted
without mandate  over Mrs Ws affairs is an executor and beneficiary to Mrs Ws estate. But
in reading Mrs Ws will, I cannot see how this person could  benefit  from any potential  redress
paid to Mrs Ws estate.
The person  alleged to have acted  without proper authority could potentially bring a complaint
on behalf of Mrs Ws estate in their capacity as executor. But this does not prevent Mr W
from bringing this complaint as executor to the estate. Its also unlikely the other executor
would support the premise of this complaint given what  is alleged.  Im satisfied the dispute
resolution rules that govern our services jurisdiction do not prevent me from determining  the
complaint on its merits.
The complaint
Ive considered very carefully what Mr W has said, and Im inclined to find Santander took
instruction from someone other than Mrs W. I find Mrs W was unable  to give valid consent
for someone  to act on her behalf from at least November 2017 up until the point the deputy
was appointed.
Santander hasnt  explained how Mrs Ws bond  was encashed several  months earlier than its
maturity date. And its clear Mrs W was not able to give this instruction. She was in a nursing
Ref: DRN97618553home, and the medical information  Ive seen shows she had lost the capacity  to make those
kinds of decisions for herself.
Santander hasnt  said whose instruction it acted on during the time in question, given  it
wasnt Mrs Ws. Neither has it provided evidence to show  the person whose instruction it
acted on to encash the bond early had authority  to act on Mrs Ws behalf. The only authority
which has been provided is the deputyship granted in early 2019.
Santander might suggest it wouldnt have known  there were concerns about  Mrs W. But
Santander were on notice that something  might be awry.  Mr W had been in contact with
Santander expressing concern about  his mother in January 2018. And based on his contact,
Santander ought to have  attempted  to check everything was alright with Mrs W, as part of its
duty of care towards  her.
Santander hasnt  provided evidence to show it took any action. I find it was unreasonable  for
Santander not to act on Mr Ws letters, even though no power  of attorney was in place for
him. Contacting a customer based  on information  provided by a third party  doesnt  require a
power of attorney.
Mr W said he accompanied  his mother to a Santander branch in 2016. Mrs W couldnt use
the internet or online banking, and she wanted Santander to contact him in relation to the
account. I see the email  contact and phone number Santander had for Mrs W belong to     
Mr W, so Im persuaded by what Mr W has said. I see no reason why his contact details 
would otherwise have been recorded.  I understand too that Mrs W may not have been 
familiar with online banking or the use of the internet in view of the generation she was from.
Mr W is also concerned  some of the payments which  debited  Mrs Ws account during the
period in question mightve been made online, but Santander has demonstrated no online
payments or card payments were made.
On balance, I find there was a failing on Santanders part, and it acted on instruction from
someone who didnt  have the authority to represent Mrs W. So, the question  then becomes
what loss was caused to Mrs W?
Whose loss can I consider?
My role isnt to penalise  Santander for an error. Fines are the remit of the regulator,  the
Financial Conduct  Authority. Instead, when determining  redress, I can only consider the
financial or non-financial loss Mrs W may have experienced as a result of Santanders
actions.
Mr W is authorised  by law to bring  the complaint  on behalf of Mrs Ws estate; but he is not
eligible to complain in his own right. He did not receive a financial service from Santander 
he wasnt Santanders customer  (Mrs W was). So, I cant award  redress  for losses  he
experienced  its not within my power under the dispute resolution rules  that set out our
services jurisdiction. And any award to reflect the impact events had on him would  not be
enforceable.
What were Mrs Ws losses?
Ref: DRN97618554Ive been unable to draw  reasonable  conclusions on what  (if any) financial loss Mrs W was
caused by Santander acting on someone elses instruction.
The funds from the encashment of the bond were used to pay Mrs Ws care home  costs,  and
I think this is a cost which  most  likely wouldve always been due, even if an emergency
application had been made to the Court  of Protection to allow access to her accounts. So, if
things happened  as they shouldve, Im unable to conclude Mrs Ws funds wouldnt still have
been used to meet her ongoing costs.
Regular direct debit payments continued to be paid after Mrs W stopped residing in her
property. But I havent seen evidence to show any new direct debits were set up in Mrs Ws
name when  she didnt have capacity. The payments appear  to have been for various
services. So, whether Mrs W was liable for payments after she stopped  living in her home
will depend  on the terms of each service contract and the discretion of each service provider.
I find that even if Santander had stopped those payments,  it doesnt  mean  Mrs W wouldnt
still have been  liable  to pay them.
Mr W approached  the service providers in his capacity as executor and Mrs Ws estate  was
refunded some payments. If Mr W thinks some service providers unfairly refused to refund
payments, he may wish to raise  complaints against them.
A Santander Home  Insurance policy continued to be paid by direct debit when Mrs Ws
property wasnt inhabited, at which point Mr W says the policy was invalid. As far as I can tell
the actual insurer  responsible for the potential refund of premiums is another firm and not
Santander. Mr W may want  to take this matter up with the insurer  to see whether any refund
of premiums is due to Mrs Ws estate.
I want to be clear that Mr W has my sincerest  sympathy in regard to the situation he faced.
He was very worried about  someone accessing his mothers accounts without there being a
valid mandate in place.  And he was concerned that Santander didnt do enough to act on
what he was telling  them.
I find there is insufficient evidence to show  Santander did do enough  to safeguard  Mrs Ws
interests, which is concerning. But, as things stand, I dont have reliable evidence  to show
the debits that left Mrs Ws account represent  actual financial loss to her estate.
Mr W responded and said I failed to account for three cheques paid in 2018 when Mrs W 
lived in the care home  and these were  losses to her estate. He said I hadnt considered the 
consequences Santanders failure had on him and other family members  when  going  to the 
Court of Protection. He said Mrs W wouldve had more contact and been less isolated if 
Santander had acted correctly. He thinks Santander  should issue  a letter  of apology and pay 
compensation.
Santander responded saying it thinks the cheques were authorised,  and it acted correctly 
when presented with valid legal authority.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  the 
complaint, but not award redress to Mrs Ws estate for the same  reasons I gave  in my 
provisional decision. Those findings  are copied above, and form part of this decision.
Ref: DRN97618555Ive considered carefully what Mr W said about the three cheques issued in 2018.  Again, I 
understand his concern. I had considered the cheques when making my provisional  
decision. But I find it relevant to directly comment on them now given the importance Mr W 
places on them.
Im satisfied its unlikely Mrs W could agree  to the cheques or that she physically presented  
in branch. She was in a care home  and under  its supervision,  and medical evidence  
indicates she couldnt understand or manage  her finances at the time the cheques were  
cashed.
But this doesnt  mean the cheques werent  issued to pay for genuine  liabilities or costs  in 
respect of Mrs W. So, I cant  reasonably conclude that if proper representation was in place, 
those payments or similar payments wouldnt still have debited Mrs Ws account at some  
point.
At least  one of the cheques was to a care service provider  presumably to pay for costs  at 
the care home where Mrs W resided.  So, I cant conclude this wasnt  a cost an authorised 
representative of Mrs W wouldnt have had to pay.
Mr W says another cheque was for insurance, but the insurer  wont  provide any information  
about the policy. I dont have information  about what the insurance was for. But the other 
payments out of Mrs Ws account  appear to be for her care costs, or for services  taken out 
when she had capacity.  So, I dont have sufficient information to conclude the policy or 
another policy wouldnt still have been taken out in Mrs Ws name or for her benefit if 
authorisation was in place.
Mr W says he doesnt  think the other  home insurance policies were  in Mrs Ws name, 
following a lack of response from Santander to provide insurance documents.  But from the 
evidence Ive seen  it looks like both policies were in Mrs Ws name. Mr W might be able to 
obtain the documents he wants from the actual insurer, which  based on other policies that 
carry Santanders name, is likely to be a different legal entity to Santander UK Plc. 
I leave it to Mr W to decide whether to complain to the insurer(s) if he thinks  a policy 
shouldnt have been issued or was unsuitable. He may wish to refer those complaints to our 
service if he isnt satisfied by the responses  he receives.
Some home insurance policies are invalid due to unoccupancy, but others  do cover 
unoccupied premises.  The insurer  to whom Mr W says one of the cheques was paid does 
offer this kind of insurance. And unoccupied  premises do often still require insurance to 
protect their owners interest. So, Mrs W not residing at her home doesnt mean the 
payments Mr W thinks should be refunded wouldnt  still have been paid if correct  authority 
had been in place.
Mr W thinks had Santander acted on his letters and prevented unauthorised access, then it 
was unlikely he and other family members wouldve needed to attend the court of protection 
and incur legal expenses.  He says Santander  should issue an apology and compensate  him 
and other  family members their costs, as well as for the stress, time and inconvenience they 
were caused. I do not doubt Mr W and others  have gone to considerable efforts and 
expense in trying to resolve this matter. But I cannot  consider any other losses  than those 
experienced by Mrs W or her estate as a result of Santanders actions. 
Ref: DRN97618556I understand Mr W believes Mrs W wouldve been less isolated and had a better  quality of 
life but for Santanders failure. I was very sorry to hear what he said about Mrs W. But I 
cannot reasonably  conclude  Mrs W residential and familial situation wouldve been  better  
had Santander  prevented  unauthorised access to her accounts. I cannot fairly conclude  what 
Mr Ws daughter  would or wouldnt have done without being able to account for her position  
on this matter. After all, its quite possible a civil dispute about who should  have  authority  
over Mrs Ws affairs  could still have arisen  once she lost capacity.
The Financial Ombudsman  Services jurisdiction is governed by the dispute resolution rules  
(DISP), as set out in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  handbook. The rules  are not 
discretionary. To bring a complaint, the person bringing it must be eligible to complain under 
the rules.  And it follows any losses must be losses experienced  by the eligible complainant   
in this case Mrs W or her estate.
Mr W is able to bring the complaint on behalf of Mrs Ws estate. The right of Mrs W to 
complain passed  to her estate when she sadly passed away. So, as an executor, Mr W has 
legal authority to represent Mrs Ws estate.  But Mr W is not eligible to complain in his own 
right. He wasnt receiving  a financial service from Santander in relation to the complaint.
So, I cannot consider Mr Ws or other persons personal losses  as losses  experienced by 
Mrs W or her estate. I would be acting outside the legal powers afforded to me as an 
ombudsman if I did, and any award wouldnt be enforceable. For those  same  reasons, I 
cannot direct  Santander to issue an apology  to Mr W or other persons.
I appreciate Mrs Ws concern about Santander. But I do not have the ability to award sums 
to fine or punish Santander. That is the remit of the regulator, the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Mr W can pass  on his concerns about  Santander to the FCA, but I am not able to 
provide advice or represent him in this regard.
So, on balance, I uphold  this complaint  because  Im not satisfied Mrs W agreed  to cash in 
her bond  early, issue cheques or agree new payments out of her account. But Im not 
satisfied those payments  represent a financial loss to her estate.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I am upholding this complaint, but Im not directing 
Santander UK Plc to pay compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Ref: DRN97618557Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9761855