K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC rejected his section 75 claim when he complained 
about accommodation which he booked via a booking  website.
background
Mr F booked  accommodation via a website and paid with his Lloyds credit card. Payment  
was made  to the website for onward  transmission  to the accommodation supplier. Mr F says 
that on arrival the accommodation wasnt sufficient to sleep the number of people in his 
group, that the bedding was dirty and that there was no heating.
Mr F complained to the owner of the accommodation and to the booking website saying that 
the accommodation had been  misrepresented.  Mr F wasnt able to resolve his complaint with 
the booking website so he complained to Lloyds under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  
Act 1974 seeking  a refund  of the accommodation costs.
Lloyds rejected Mr Fs section 75 claim. It said that in order to make  a valid claim it had to 
confirm that there had been a breach of contract  by the booking website. Lloyds said that the 
website had fulfilled  its obligations under the contract by passing  payment to the owner of 
the accommodation. Lloyds said that because the owner of the accommodation  was not a 
party to the credit card transaction, the bank had no right to make  a claim against them.
Mr F wasnt happy with Lloyds response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the debtor-creditor-supplier  chain was 
broken and section  75 didnt  apply.
Mr F didnt  agree. He said that the website  advertised the accommodation  as sleeping seven 
people and that it had heating. He said that when he arrived he found that it only had 
childrens bunk beds.  Mr F feels that the accommodation was misrepresented by the 
booking website. Mr F provided extracts from the booking  websites terms and conditions  
and extracts  from legislation which he felt was relevant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with Lloyds and our investigator in that Mr F doesnt  meet  
the criteria for section 75 assistance.  In order for a section 75 claim to be valid,  it has to be 
shown that there is a debtor-creditor-supplier link. Mr F paid for his accommodation using 
the booking website who was acting as a third party processor. The booking website passed 
the payment on to the owner of the accommodation. In order  to show a debtor-creditor-
supplier link, Mr F would  have needed to have made payment to the owner of the 
accommodation directly.  This isnt what happened  here.
I understand why Mr F feels  that the booking website is at fault but the debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship required by the Consumer Credit Act isnt discretionary.  If there  is no 
debtor-creditor-supplier link then a credit card provider is entitled  to decline a section 75 
claim. Im satisfied that in this case the debtor-creditor-supplier link was broken  with the 
involvement of the booking  website to whom the payment was made.
Ref: DRN95684242I appreciate that Mr F feels  that the booking website has misrepresented  the 
accommodation. Ive also noted his comments that the only way the accommodation can be 
booked is via the booking website. I havent seen any information  to confirm that this is the 
case. In any event, these  points  dont alter the fundamental issue which  is that the debtor-
creditor-supplier link has been  broken and therefore  a section 75 claim cant  be brought.
Ive thought about what Mr F has said about  the capacity in which the booking website has 
acted in this transaction. It is sometimes the case that the third party  processor acts as (for 
example) a provider  of payment gateway technology, in which case  the debtor-creditor-
supplier link might not be broken. Im satisfied that this wasnt the case  here though. In this 
case, the booking website  was being  used as an e-money provider, thereby breaking the 
debtor-creditor-supplier chain. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and the legislation  which Mr F has provided. But this 
doesnt alter my view on the section  75 claim.  
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9568424