K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which Mr H 
says was mis-sold to him by Melton  Mowbray Building Society (MMBS) in 1992.
The policy in question  covered Mr H in the event of him being unable  to work or losing  his 
job. It cost £10.87 per month and would have  paid a monthly benefit of £282 in the event of 
a successful claim. 
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  this case and provided Mr H with a view that it shouldnt 
be upheld. However  Mr H disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
These events are from 27 years  ago which is obviously quite a long time.  Neither  Mr H nor 
MMBS was able to tell us much about the sale or provide  any of the sale documentation. 
Given when the sale was, this isnt unusual  or surprising.
However Mr H says he was made  to feel the policy had to be taken out with his mortgage. 
He says the mortgages he took out after this didnt have MPPI  included with them and this 
proves this type of cover wasnt something he really  wanted.
I certainly dont doubt that Mr M might now genuinely feel this policy  was mis-sold  to him. 
But he hasnt really  been able to tell us why he thinks this or what  MMBS specifically did to 
imply that the cover was compulsory. And if Mr H didnt take out MPPI with his later 
mortgages when  this one finished  in 1997,  this does tend to suggest to me that he must 
have known MPPI wasnt a product you needed to have with a mortgage. 
As far as I know, he didnt  raise this as an issue or complaint back in 1997 when his MMBS 
mortgage ended and MMBS says it was always made clear that this type of MPPI cover  
was optional with its mortgages.
Businesses arent required to keep  documents indefinitely and so given theres simply no 
hard evidence  to refer to here, its just as likely  the policy was sold properly to Mr H  as it 
wasnt. I also see the policy was with a third-party  insurance company so I think  as well as 
telling MMBS he wanted to have it, Mr H would have needed to fill out a separate direct 
debit instruction enabling the monthly premium to be collected  from his and his then wifes 
bank account.  
On balance, I therefore consider it more likely he agreed to the policy.
MMBS needed to ensure  it gave Mr H information that was clear. Other than its saying 
consumers were told about the optionality of the MPPI, Ive got nothing to refer to. But as 
the insurance policy was underwritten  by a third party, Ive got no reason to think  Mr H 
Ref: DRN99080552wouldnt have been sent a policy schedule and information about  what  the MPPI was for. 
And having set up the direct debit, he would  have known the monthly  cost.  So I cant  uphold 
his complaint on this basis.
Mr H told us about the protection he enjoyed from his job and he says this means he didnt 
need MPPI.  Ive thought about  this but MMBS says this wasnt an advised sale. In any 
event, Mr H also appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the 
main exclusions  we tend to see in these policies.  Looking at his financial situation, I think 
the mortgage would have  been an important and long-term commitment for him. 
So whilst I cant say why Mr H decided he wanted the MPPI  policy, I think  it was probably of 
use to him and if successfully claimed  on, it would  have paid out a monthly benefit for up to 
12 months, in addition to any means  he already had in place at the time.  
For me to uphold this complaint Id need to think it was more  likely than not Mr H didnt 
properly consent  to the MPPI or that there were serious flaws in the sale.  I simply dont 
have that evidence. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint or direct Melton Mowbray Building Society to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9908055