K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained Valour Finance Limited,  trading as Savvy.co.uk, is holding him liable  
for a loan he didnt  apply  for in 2018.
background
In July 2018 Mr R lost his wallet. This included his driving licence and payment cards. He got 
a replacement driving licence. At the beginning of August he got two letters from loan 
companies confirming  hed taken out loans and signed up to repay  these by direct debit. 
Hed not taken  these out so got in touch with both companies. One was Savvy  and the other 
was a loan taken out with a company Ill call L.
In August  Mr R got confirmation from L they agreed  this was a fraudulent application. Savvy  
didnt take this approach and asked Mr R to provide evidence hed reported the fraud  to the 
police, ID evidence, copy of his bank statement and a completed fraud pack  they sent to 
him. Mr R sent this off but the fraud  pack was returned to him as undelivered.  He got notices  
of sums in arrears and defaults from Savvy. They wouldnt  accept  he hadnt taken out the 
loan so he brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This showed Mr R had an account with another  
bank than the one Savvy paid the £600 loan to. His new driving  licence  a copy of which  
Savvy had  clearly  showed it had been  issued in July 2018 after the loss of his other 
licence. He didnt  think Savvy  had enough information to show Mr R had entered  into a credit 
agreement with them. He asked them to stop pursuing Mr R for repayment  and clear  any 
reference to this loan from his credit  record.
Savvy vociferously  objected to this outcome. They didnt believe the evidence had been  
fairly examined. They noted theyd received evidence  that Mr R held a bank account with the 
bank they paid the loan to as theyd received a statement as part of the application.
This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly Ive looked at the evidence  of the original application  made  in Mr Rs name to Savvy. 
The email  and phone details dont match the ones  Mr L has used in his complaint to us. And 
neither is Mr R employed in a betting shop earning £1,800 a year.
I can see, however,  that Savvy obtained  a bank statement in their application process. This 
shows Mr R  or someone purporting to be Mr R  held a bank account  with B. This account  
statement suggests the account  had been  opened for a longer period than before Mr Rs 
driving licence  went  missing in early  July. However  it turns out this was completely 
fraudulent.
Mr Rs evidence is his wallet went missing. His new driving licence was issued in July 2018 
so support this. Hes also shown us bank statements from a bank other than B, which  
confirms the state  of his account at the time the loan was taken out.  
Ref: DRN95757012Our investigator spoke  to B. They confirmed theyd  closed the account Savvy had paid the 
loan money to on 30 August 2018.  Theyd done  this as the account had received fraudulent 
funds. B also confirmed the account-holder  was not Mr R and lived in another part of the 
country.
So Im satisfied theres no evidence Mr R ever received the funds from the Savvy loan.
Savvy has said theyre allowed to have a process  to investigate whether  fraud  took place 
and to verify their customers. I agree. But it seems they were asking Mr R the impossible. As 
hes not a customer  of Bs, they werent going  to be willing  nor do I see why they should  
provide him with a letter to confirm this.
Savvy has complained data protection rules wouldnt allow B to confirm  to them who held the 
account so Im surprised  they think B would  be willing to do this on Mr Rs behalf.
Mr R had reported the fraudulent loan applications to the relevant authorities and was able to 
show Savvy  hed received a new driving  licence with an effective date. All this matched what 
hed told them. He was also able to evidence another loan had been taken out with L. L 
quickly accepted  Mr R hadnt taken out this loan.
Its difficult to come  to any other  conclusion  than Mr R didnt take out the loan with Savvy.  I 
say this because:
The application was made with details  that werent his;
Mr Rs driving licence was used  as ID for the application but his driving licence had 
gone missing  just before  this;
Mr R had no access to the loan funds as he had no account with B;
Mr R was also a victim  of another  fraudulent  loan taken out in his name;  and
Mr Rs own evidence over the past 18 months  has been consistent  and persuasive.
Therefore Savvy has no contractual relationship with Mr R as he didnt  take out the loan. I 
dont agree that it is fair or reasonable they ask him to repay  a loan there  is no evidence he 
took out (and certainly didnt benefit from).
I am concerned Savvy has been so unwilling to accept the evidence theyve had presented  
to them.  I absolutely accept customers can and do commit first party fraud but theres 
nothing to indicate this happened  here.  They have continued to dispute what Mr R has told 
them despite  the evidence.
Its right and proper that financial businesses have  internal processes for investigating  fraud 
but these shouldnt have an unfair or unreasonable impact or not be flexible  enough to take 
account of the wider  evidence being  presented to them.
The loan was taken  out in July 2018  so its now more than 18 months that Mr R has been 
struggling to get things  put right. Theres also been a default on his credit  record for the last 
year. This has caused him a great  deal of inconvenience and no end of worry. Ive already 
told Savvy  that Ill be asking them  to pay him £150 in compensation on top of correcting his 
credit record  and stopping  pursuing  him for the loan repayment.
Ref: DRN95757013my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Valour Finance Limited, trading as 
Savvy.co.uk, to:
Stop pursuing  Mr R for this loan he didnt apply for;
Remove any data about  this loan from Mr Rs credit  record; and
Pay Mr R £150 for the inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9575701