K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that Advantage  Insurance Company Limited caused undue  delay  when 
he made a claim under  his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr B was involved  in an incident  in January 2018. He reported  the incident  the next day to 
Advantage. In April 2018 an approved  repairer  of Advantages agreed to repair Mr Bs car 
under a credit hire arrangement. Up until then Advantage was responsible  for dealing with 
Mr Bs claim. 
Mr B complained about the length  of time it took to arrange for his car to be repaired. And he 
said his car had been further damaged while with a salvage agent.
Advantage upheld part of Mr Bs complaint. It agreed Mr B had spent an inordinate amount 
of time chasing for an update on his claim. It said it was clear Advantage could have been 
more proactive. For this is it apologised and paid Mr B £100  compensation. 
Advantage said the salvage agent didnt accept it had caused  further  damage  to the roof and 
tailgate of Mr Bs car. So it said it wasnt responsible  for these repairs. 
Mr B asked us to look at his complaint.  The investigator thought  Advantage hadnt been  
reasonable. If it hadnt already done  so, she recommended it make arrangements for the 
roof and tailgate damage to be repaired. And she thought Advantage should pay Mr B a 
further £150 compensation for the delay it caused and the poor service  he received. 
Advantage didnt  agree.  It said Mr B asked that a garage of his choice carry out the repairs. 
The estimate it provided was too high and this therefore caused some  delay.  There  isnt any 
evidence the salvage agent  caused further  damage to Mr Bs car. So it believes it dealt with 
Mr Bs complaint reasonably. 
Mr B didnt reply to the investigators findings.  So as Advantage  didnt  agree, the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr B reported the incident on 20 January 2018.  Advantage passed  his claim to a credit hire 
company. If a repairer deals with Mr Bs repairs  as a credit  hire claim, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cannot look at Mr Bs concerns here. This is because credit hire is an 
activity which isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
However, on 26 January  2018 the credit  hire repairer passed the claim back  to Advantage 
as it decided Mr Bs car was a total loss. So it said it wasnt repairable.  So Advantage was 
dealing with Mr Bs claim.
Ref: DRN92649312Advantage told Mr B it would ask a salvage agent  to provide a valuation  for Mr Bs car and 
be in touch. On 31 January  2018 Mr B chased Advantage as he hadnt heard anything. 
Advantage said that the salvage agent  reported  that his car was repairable and provided an 
estimate. But because  the credit  hire company wouldnt agree to the repair, it said it would 
need to arrange for an independent  engineer to assess  Mr Bs car. 
Advantage gave  Mr B the option  to have a garage  of his choice carry out an estimate. It said 
Advantage would  need  to authorise  the estimate before the repairs  could be done. Mr B 
agreed. So Advantage arranged for his car to be delivered to the garage. 
The garage signed for delivery of Mr Bs car from the salvage agent.  On 15 February 2018 
Mr B contacted Advantage as hed provided the garages estimate. And he raised  concerns  
that the salvage agent had caused further damage to his car: to the roof and tailgate. 
Advantage then instructed an independent engineer to review the garages estimate. They 
thought the labour costs  were too high and recommended an approved  repairer carry out the 
repairs. 
On 1 March 2018 Mr B chased Advantage for an update. He agreed to an approved repairer 
carrying out the repairs. Mr B chased  Advantage regularly throughout March  and April as he 
didnt hear from the approved repairer.  Each  time Advantage  told Mr B it had sent 
instructions to the approved repairer  and it should  have  contacted  him. 
On 10 April 2018 the approved repairer  confirmed  it had received instructions from 
Advantage to carry out repairs to Mr Bs car. It agreed to do this on a credit  hire basis. I 
understand Mr B is unhappy with continued  delays. But for the reasons Ive given,  we can 
only consider Advantages involvement up to 10 April 2018.  
I think Advantage caused undue delay. I appreciate Advantage says it was Mr Bs choice to 
use his own repairer  and it couldnt  have  anticipated the estimate  wouldnt be accepted. But I 
think Mr B was just as content  to use an approved repairer. It was because the credit hire 
repairer hadnt agreed to repair Mr Bs car  even though it was repairable  - that led to giving 
Mr B this option. All Mr B wanted  was to get his car repaired. Its clear from the call 
recordings provided that Mr B spent  a considerable amount of time chasing Advantage for 
an update. I think  the service he received  was poor and caused  him ongoing time and 
inconvenience. 
So I think Advantage should  increase the compensation it paid Mr B by a further  £150  for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
Because the repairs were passed  to a credit hire company, we dont know if the repairs 
included further  damage which Mr B says the salvage agent caused  to his car. 
Advantage said there isnt any evidence to show the salvage agent  caused further damage. 
So it doesnt  believe it should be responsible  for the additional repairs.  
The independent engineers report said that Mr B had reported  further  damage  to the roof 
and tailgate. However,  in two separate calls Advantage told Mr B that the further damage 
caused by the salvage  agent would be included  in the repairs.  These calls took place on 9 
March 2018 and 29 March 2018.  
On 9 March 2018 the agent  read from the independent  engineers report  and said:
Ref: DRN92649313Agent: So everything  will be put down in the instruction for (repairer name) and they will 
have to estimate separately for that damage  so that we can recover from the damage 
created by the third party and obviously we would cover the costs  of that.
Mr B: So will they do that as well then? 
Agent: Yes - so what Ill do is add that to the damage description before I send it across to 
(repairer name) and when  they call you if you explain  to them that the roof damage was 
caused by (salvage agent name)
On 29 March 2018 Mr B called to make a complaint. The agent suggested Mr B either  
contacted his garage to ask it if it could reduce its labour charges as the independent 
engineer wasnt  able to speak to them. However, Advantage had instructed an approved 
repairer to repair  Mr Bs car on 1 March 2018. Mr B said he just wanted  an approved repairer  
to repair  his car. The agent  said that wasnt a problem. But she was concerned  that the 
approved repairer  may refuse again  as it considered the car a total loss  as it had done  
before. 
Mr B said Advantage  had three estimates  already: one from the salvage  agent, one from his 
garage which it didnt  agree  with, and one from the independent engineer. Mr B didnt want  
to go to the trouble of obtaining a further  estimate. He reiterated  that he was unhappy that 
further damage had been caused  to the roof of his car.
The agent  told Mr B: 
So what wed do is wed book it in and get two estimates done.  So an estimate  for 
the (salvage agent name) damage and wed claim that back  from (salvage  agent) 
and then the damage related to the incident from the responsible insurer. So it would  
all happen  in one but there would be two estimates and two invoices.
I know the independent engineer's  report says this is damage Mr B says happened. The 
engineer didnt give an opinion either way. But I think Advantage  with sight  of the report - 
on two occasions  led Mr B to believe it would include the repairs Mr B said were  caused by 
the salvage agent with the incident  related repairs.  I dont think  this was Mr Bs fault and I 
think Advantage caused further confusion. So if the further repairs  havent been done, I think 
Advantage should arrange for the repairs to the roof and tailgate  as identified  in the 
independent engineers report to be carried out as a matter of urgency. I think  this is the 
fairest outcome  to put things right here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
If it hasnt  already done so, arrange for the further  damage  Mr B reported to the 
roof and tailgate to be repaired by an approved repairer. 
Pay Mr B £150 compensation in addition to the £100 its already paid him for the 
distress and inconvenience its poor service caused. 
Ref: DRN92649314Advantage Insurance Company Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9264931