K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about the way that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  dealt with his 
home insurance claim for water damage  and trace and access. The policy is administered by 
a broker service though  for convenience I shall refer to Lloyds throughout.
background 
In November 2018 Mr C made a claim to Lloyds following the discovery of water  damage in 
his bedroom affecting the carpet and built in wardrobe. Lloyds appointed a contractor to visit 
the property and to negotiate the claim, Mr C wanted a cash settlement and had a quote for 
£5,700. After an initial inspection Lloyds offered him £900. Mr C turned  this down and Lloyds 
increased the offer to £1,800. After Mr C again objected Lloyds arranged to carry out a repair  
costs summary which came to £4,200. With VAT a total settlement net of the £300 excess 
was agreed, of £5,028.
This figure included trace and access costs  which Lloyds at first wouldnt agree to pay as it 
said the area damaged by the trace and access wasnt affected by water damage.  After 
Mr C made  several phone calls to Lloyds, the contractors and the broker service, Lloyds 
agreed to include  those costs.
Lloyds agreed  the service  had been  poor  Mr C had difficulty contacting the loss adjuster 
and information  went missing. There was poor communication between the contractor, 
Lloyds and the broker. This was over a two week period and it offered him £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
On referral to this service  our investigator  proposed that Lloyds increase the compensation 
payment to £250  which it agreed to. Mr C didnt agree   he thought the case  revealed 
endemic failure  which allowed Lloyds to pay less than its policy liability to consumers. He 
believed it should  be reported to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
trace and access
Mr Cs policy  covers him for trace and access. He was told in advance that his costs  would  
be covered. However  Lloyds then disagreed with paying the cost as it said that the part of 
the wall that was removed wasnt water damaged.  I believe  it also suggested that its removal  
wasnt necessary for the trace and access to take place. I think this was unreasonable. The 
policy doesnt require  the area damaged by the trace  and access  to be water damaged itself, 
merely that any area damaged or removed during the search  for the leak be reinstated. I 
also think that having left Mr C to carry out his own trace and access it wasnt fair to argue 
late over the appropriateness of what  he did. Mr C was caused a lot of inconvenience in 
having to argue his case which, if Lloyds had acted reasonably  would have been avoided.
Ref: DRN96745652settlement figure
Mr C was offered initially a settlement figure  of £600. This was despite his having got a 
quote for £5,700. Lloyds increased this to £1,800 but only increased this to a reasonable 
amount once it had carried  out a repair costs summary.
I do think the initial figures offered were too low and didnt really seem  to be based on any 
real estimate of the cost of the work.  It did cause  Mr C some inconvenience having  to fight 
for the cost he believed  should be paid. I do however  bear in mind that Mr C was asking for 
a cash settlement. In those circumstances the contractors would have  been  justified in 
looking at the matter from the point of view of what it would cost Lloyds to carry out the work  
after any discount available from its approved  suppliers.  This is in accordance with the policy  
terms. And though it would be unfair  to offer an unreasonable settlement often a private  
contractor wouldnt be able to do the work for the same cost as Lloyds would be able to get 
through its suppliers.
As it happens in this case Mr Cs costs  werent very much different from those assessed  by 
Lloyds but thats not to say it shouldnt  have carried out its own assessment.
service provided
Mr C made  a number of phone calls to Lloyds, the contractor and the broker  and there were 
calls between those various parties, some  of which have been provided to us. I think  there  
weren't clear lines of communication.  Mr C sent in information via the contractors' website 
which wasnt acknowledged  until Mr C rang in to enquire about it. On one occasion Mr C had 
taken the day off to contact the loss adjuster and found he wasn't  available.  I think  this would  
have caused a fair amount of inconvenience  on Mr Cs part.
compensation
Our investigator proposed that Lloyds pay compensation to Mr C of £250,  which  it agreed to. 
Mr C believes  that Lloyds  should pay him further compensation for their endemic 
professional and contractual failures , and it should  be reported to the FCA.
I should explain that my function is to consider individual cases and in connection with that to 
resolve disputes informally. I understand that our investigator has enquired about the 
position within this service and it has not been thought appropriate  to report Lloyds to the 
FCA.
In respect of this case, I have to bear in mind,  as Ive said that Mr C wanted a cash 
settlement. He has explained he is a professional and well able to argue his case. And 
theres nothing wrong in itself with Lloyds agents seeking to minimise the liability to the 
insurer, so long as it was within the policy terms. To the extent that Mr C felt he was put 
under unreasonable pressure and for the other issues of poor service I think that the 
payment of £250  proposed is fair and reasonable as compensation for this. I take into 
account that this was over short period, of two weeks, and I think its in line with awards  
weve made in other cases.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay to Mr C 
£250 compensation. If it has already  paid the £50 offered  it need  only pay the balance.
Ref: DRN96745653 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9674565