K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt  reduce  his overdraft limit as agreed after he 
took out a personal loan to repay what he owed. 
background
Mr P had an overdraft balance of around £4,500 with Lloyds and in November 2014 he took 
out a personal  loan of £5,500 to repay  it. Mr P says Lloyds invited him to apply for the loan 
as part of a strategy  to repay his overdraft.  Lloyds also agreed to reduce Mr Ps overdraft  
limit to £500  after it used the loan funds to repay  the outstanding balance.  
Lloyds didnt reduce the overdraft limit as agreed and left it at £4,500.  Over time Mr P began  
to use the overdraft facility again. Mr P says he works away  from home  and has difficulty  
monitoring his account so wasnt aware  he was overdrawn. 
In 2018 Mr Ps personal loan term ended. Mr P complained to Lloyds as an overdraft debt 
remained. Lloyds  apologised for not reducing  the overdraft limit and offered Mr P £150.  Mr P 
didnt feel Lloyds offer was reasonable so referred  his complaint to this service  and an 
investigator looked at it. The investigator  thought Lloyds offer to resolve the complaint  was 
fair so didnt  ask it to take any further action. Mr P didnt agree so the complaints been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  agree that Lloyds should have reduced Mr Ps overdraft limit in 2014 when he 
consolidated the debt to a loan. And I can understand why Mr P is annoyed that despite  
taking out a loan to repay his overdraft  he remains  overdrawn.  But whilst I agree Lloyds 
made a mistake,  I think  its made  a fair offer to resolve Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr P says that he didnt  check his account  statements because he works  away.  And whilst I 
appreciate monitoring  his account  may not have been easy for Mr P I think  Lloyds would 
reasonably expect him to say if there was a problem. In this case, Mr P repaid his overdraft 
but within a few months was using more than the £500 limit hed discussed with Lloyds.  Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mr P but I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably by expecting  Mr P to 
monitor his account  to some extent,  letting it know if there was a problem  or if it wasnt  
operating as expected.
Ive looked at the account statements on file and I can see that Mr P has spent the money he 
now owes so I think its fair that Lloyds  asks him to repay it. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P but whilst I agree Lloyds has made an error,  for the reasons  Ive 
given above, I dont think it would be fair to tell it to write off his overdraft now. 
Lloyds offered Mr P £150 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused by its error. I think  
thats fair in all the circumstances so Im not telling it to do anything else to resolve this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN98247182my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £150  Lloyds Bank  PLC has 
already offered. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required  to ask 
Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9824718