K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that T.L. Darby Ltd mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in 2008. The policy  was 
taken out when Mrs B applied for a hire purchase agreement to obtain a car. It covered her 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
T.L. Darby hadnt brought the pre-existing medical  condition terms to Mrs Bs attention. And 
that, if it had done,  she wouldnt  have taken  the policy.
T.L. Darby didnt reply  to our adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed  to me to 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs complaint.
I havent seen  enough evidence to persuade  me that T.L Darby  recommended  the policy to 
Mrs B, so it didnt have to make sure it was suitable  for her. But it did have to provide her 
with information  which was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could  make  an 
informed choice about the insurance she was buying.
The terms of the policy included an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions.  Mrs B 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful sickness or disability claim for a condition  
which you knew about (or ought reasonably to have known about) at the start date. Mrs B 
told us shed been diagnosed with two conditions at least 10 years before she was sold the 
policy. Both of these conditions were  long term, required daily medication and a regular 
check up. Two years before she was sold the policy, she was diagnosed  with a third 
condition for which she also had to take daily medication.
None of these  conditions wouldve been covered by the policy. The nature of the conditions  
suggests to me that Mrs B would  have anticipated that any time off work would likely be due 
to one of these conditions. So I find that, had the exclusion  terms been  brought to her 
attention, its more likely than not that Mrs B wouldnt have taken the policy.
Ref: DRN93174642putting things right
T.L. Darby should put Mrs B in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and T.L. Darby  should:
Pay Mrs B the amount  she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, T.L. Darby can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires T.L. Darby to take off tax from this interest.  T.L. Darby 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. T.L. Darby Ltd should pay compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9317464