K821x#15complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the way Direct Financial Claims  Limited (Direct Financial) chased her 
for their fees. 
background
Ms S instructed Direct Financial to reclaim charges and interest  on loan payments with 
Lender W in May 2018. The terms and conditions said that in the event of a successful claim 
theyd charge 30% plus VAT payable within 21 working days  of Ms S receiving their invoice.  
Ms S claim with Lender W was successful on 27 November 2018.  Direct Financial started  
calling Ms S for their success fee to be paid. On 30 November Ms S was told that Direct 
Financial have stopped any further  telephone  calls and text messages to allow  [Ms S] time 
to respond back.  Apologies for any inconvenience caused.
On 4 December  Ms S was told by Direct Financial that the offer money should be received  in 
her bank account within the next 5 -7 workings days. The next day, Direct Financial told 
Ms S that theyd contacted [her] on several occasions, [and that Ms S is] responsible  for 
settling [their] fee once [shes] received the funds.
On 13 December Ms S emailed Direct  Financial  telling  them  how stressed  she was by the 
number of calls being made to her, and the impact it was having on her health. She also said 
at the time of receiving the email that she hadnt received any money  from Lender  W.
On 23 January 2019 Ms S sent another email  to Direct Financial telling them about the 
impact all the calls were  having on her health. 
On 1 February Direct Financial issued a claim  to the County Claims Court for their success 
fee because Ms S hadnt paid it. Direct Financial also continued to send Ms S emails and 
texts trying to recover their success fee by offering a discount on the total amount owed. 
In May 2019, a County Court Judgement (CCJ) was granted in favour of Direct Financial for 
their success fee and additional  Court  costs. 
Ms S complained to Direct Financial about  the fee theyd  charged,  and how theyd harassed  
her without any consideration  for her health.  Direct Financial  didnt  offer any compensation 
for the complaint.  
Ms S brought her complaint to the Legal Ombudsman. This complaint was originally 
investigated by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to the Claims Management  
Ombudsman (a Financial  Ombudsman service) as part of the change in the regulation of 
claims management companies. 
The investigator found that as a CCJ had already decided that Direct Financials fees were  
due, it wouldnt be fair for us to look at this part of the complaint.  The investigator found  that 
Direct Financial hadnt taken into consideration Ms S vulnerabilities  when chasing for their 
fee, and should pay £250 compensation  to Ms S because of the trouble  and upset caused  
by their actions. Direct Financial disagreed, and requested an ombudsmans  decision. 
Ref: DRN92435942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the case, I uphold this 
complaint, and agree with the compensation recommended  by the investigator. 
As a CCJ has already  determined that Ms S owes Direct Financial their fee, my decision is 
looking at whether Direct Financial treated Ms S fairly and sympathetically whilst chasing for 
their fee. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on 
any specific point its because I dont  believe  its affected what  I think is the right outcome.
The terms and conditions  agreed to by Ms S said that Direct Financials invoice is payable 
within 21 days of Ms S receiving it. I havent seen evidence of the date Direct Financial sent 
their invoice. I think its fair to say that as Ms S clam  was successful on 27 November 2018, 
the invoice wouldve been sent around this time. It looks like Direct Financial started chasing 
for their invoice immediately after notifying Ms S of the successful claim.  
On 30 November, three days after Ms S was informed of the successful claim, Direct 
Financial emailed Ms S apologising  for the number of calls and text messages sent. I think 
its fair to say that Ms S was being  unreasonably  contacted; despite the terms and conditions 
saying Direct  Financials invoice is only payable 21 days after its received by 
Ms S. Direct  Financials email of 5 December also refers to them making contact  with 
Ms S, despite the previous email of 30 November  apologising for this. 
On 13 December, Ms S told Direct Financial that the number of calls, texts  and emails she 
was getting was causing her health issues. So Direct Financial were made aware at this time 
of Ms S vulnerabilities. Id expect  a business to treat a customer  whod raised  concerns 
about their health  seriously. I cant see that Direct Financial acknowledged  Ms S concerns, 
or took any steps  to provide support for what was clearly a difficult time for Ms S. I accept 
Direct Financial were owed a fee, and theyre entitled to chase  for it. But given what  Ms S 
had shared about the impact the calls were having on her, I think it wouldve been  fair for 
Direct Financial to have  at least acknowledged  Ms S concerns,  and discussed  next steps. 
Theres currently a payment plan in place,  so its fair to say that this may have been an 
option Direct Financial  wouldve agreed  to at the time. 
Ive seen that Direct Financial continued to send texts and emails,  and make calls, chasing  
their outstanding fee, following Ms S email  of 13 December. Ms S told direct Financial in an 
email on 23 January 2019 about the continued  impact on her health, but I cant  see that 
Direct Financial acknowledged  this, or responded to Ms S concerns. 
Ive seen that once Court  action was started, Direct Financial tried to informally settle  the 
debt with Ms S, offering  to accept a reduced amount in full and final settlement. I appreciate 
Direct Financial were trying  to prevent a CCJ from being issued. However,  the standard,  
scripted text and email  alerts sent to Ms S failed to show any understanding  of what  Ms S 
had told Direct Financial about  her vulnerabilities.  This lack of care and empathy towards Ms 
S caused her trouble  and upset which I think Direct  Financial should award compensation 
for. 
I think the amount  of £250 is fair in recognising the impact on Ms S. I say this because  
Ms S made Direct Financial aware  of her vulnerabilities on several occasions. Ive 
considered Direct Financials position that a debt was owed to them,  and theyre entitled to 
Ref: DRN92435943chase. But I think Direct  Financial failed to act positively  and sympathetically  towards  Ms S, 
despite being made aware of her vulnerabilities.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Direct Financial Claims Limited should pay Ms S £250 to compensate her for the trouble and 
upset shes experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9243594