K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited has not settled his home 
insurance claim relating  to his garage  fairly.
background
Mr Ws garage was broken into in early  October 2017. A number of items were stolen, Mr W 
called Lloyds to make a claim under his home insurance policy.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to review Mr Ws claim. Having considered Mr Ws claim, 
Lloyds offered to pay for the following items:
£59.95 for a head torch
£325.99 for a night  searcher
£9.95 for batteries
£19.99 for a holdall
£474 for a Panther night searcher light
£249 for a Garmin  GPS
Mr W accepted Lloyds  offer for the items  listed above. But there  were  several  other things 
Mr W claimed for that remained in dispute.  
Mr W made a claim for two stolen  bikes, which  were  insured under his policy. Lloyds said 
Mr W had called within the last year to increase the limit for the bikes. For one mens  bike he 
increased the cover from £3,000 to £3,500 and one womens bike from £1,500 to £2,500. 
Lloyds said these limits  included any accessories for each bike, with an accessory  being  
anything designed to be primarily used with a cycle and normally  found  on a cycle.  So, in 
the end Lloyds offered to pay £6,000 in cash for the two bikes  and accessories. As it had 
previously told Mr W his bikes could be replaced on a like for like basis, but then decided not 
to do this, it offered  Mr W £50 for any distress and inconvenience this had caused him.  
Lloyds offered Mr W £150 for a nail gun that was stolen, but Mr W rejected this offer.  Lloyds 
asked for details of the nail gun he was claiming for, and details of when and where he 
bought it. Mr W had also claimed for welding equipment. Lloyds asked him to confirm  the 
value of the items, details of when and where he bought them and photos of the items and 
damage. Some of this information was sent, but details of when and where Mr W bought  
these items  was missing.
Mr W also claimed for repairs to his garage, as it was damaged by the thieves. Initially,  
Lloyds was happy, in principle, with Mr Ws estimate of £1,200 for the repairs. But Mr W later 
increased the amounts he was claiming  for to: 
£1,850 for block work repairs
£620 for replacement  of the garage door and frame
£430 for replacement  of shelving
£150 for rubbish clearance
The repairs  had been carried out by this point, so in its letter  of 7 March  2018, Lloyds asked 
for invoices  for the shelving,  rubbish clearance,  materials and labour for the block work 
repairs. And it explained it wouldnt pay for these items until this information was provided.  
Lloyds also said it wouldnt pay for the garage  door,  as it didnt think it had been damaged. 
Ref: DRN93179772Mr W said hed sent estimates for the shelving,  door replacement and building  work along 
with estimates for all items being claimed  for. But Lloyds said that, with the exception of a 
torch, Mr W had only provided print outs of items similar to the ones he was claiming  for on 
the internet.  Mr W insisted he needed a new garage  door, as the current one had been  
damaged.
Mr W also said he had discovered that two pieces of welding equipment were damaged in 
the burglary. He asked Lloyds to cover the cost of replacing these. Lloyds asked for more 
information about these items.
Mr W asked Lloyds to replace his garage door,  which  he says was damaged  in the burglary. 
Lloyds said the garage door didnt need to be replaced, which Mr W disputed. So Lloyds 
sent an engineer  to inspect Mr Ws garage. The engineer reported he was shown the garage 
door from behind steel  gates, the door was boarded and Mr W wouldnt tell him the makeup 
of the door. He said Mr W became verbally  abusive, and the engineer  ended  the visit 
because of his unacceptable behaviour. Following this, Lloyds said it was unable to consider 
Mr Ws claim for the garage door, as its engineer hadnt been  allowed to inspect it. Lloyds 
also decided  not to offer renewal of Mr Ws policy after it expired.
Mr W made several complaints about Lloyds handling of his claim.  Unhappy with its 
responses, Mr W referred his complaints to our service. As part of his complaint, he said he 
was unhappy  Lloyds appointed a loss assessor,  and felt Lloyds as part of the claims 
process. Mr W said he couldnt provide  receipts for the welding equipment, as hed had it for 
a few years. He also sent copies of the following emails hed sent to Lloyds:
Photos of the stolen nail guns case and its chargers, along with the model number of 
a similar  nail gun and its cost (£530.88)
Photos of the welding  machines Mr W says were damaged
A description of the work he says was needed  to repair the garage  and a breakdown  
of material costs.  And a claim  for 47.5 hours of labour.  
One of our investigators  explained Lloyds was entitled to investigate  claims. She thought  
Lloyds offer to pay £6,000 for the bikes and their accessories was fair  but she thought  
Lloyds had taken  too long to pay Mr Ws claims for the agreed  items and the bikes.  
She said Lloyds should  pay the settlement amounts  due for these items, plus interest at 8% 
simple from the date a settlement figure was agreed  until the date of payment Our 
investigator also thought Lloyds  took too long to decide whether to pay out for Mr Ws other 
items and set out her recommendations about  what  Lloyds should do to put things right.
In response, Lloyds  offered to pay Mr W £100 compensation for the delays and interest at 
8% simple  on items it agreed to replace. It said the photo it had of the garage  door indicated  
it wasnt damaged. And pointed out it had tried to inspect the garage door, but the engineer  
couldnt, as he was uncomfortable  with Mr Ws behaviour.
Lloyds thought the costs for labour and materials for the repairs to the garage itself were  
excessive, bearing  in mind Mr W works  in the building trade and had completed  the repairs 
himself. Lloyds questioned why 47.5 hours  of labour  was needed. It also asked why Mr W 
needed this level of materials and why some  of these were  bought  before the incident. 
Lloyds said it hadnt received supporting documentation for rubbish clearance.
Ref: DRN93179773Lloyds has since told us that, as an alternative, it is prepared to use its builders estimate 
guide to work out an amount for labour rates in Mr Ws local area. Its offered £513.47, 
including 22 hours of labour. Having received Mr Ws response  to Lloyds offer,  I asked 
Lloyds to consider  offering Mr W the £1,200 it initially offered for the garage materials, 
layout, shelving and rubbish clearance, which it agreed to do. 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 May 2019, in which I explained why I thought Mr Ws 
complaint should  be upheld.  I recommended Lloyds pay for the majority of Mr Ws claim. 
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision, but Mr W did not. Ive listened  to Mr Ws 
conversation with one of my colleagues, in which he explained why he disagreed with my 
decision. Ive also reviewed the accompanying information Mr W has sent in. 
Ive summarised Mr Ws comments as follows:
He disputes  Lloyds version  of events when an engineer attended  his property to 
inspect the garage door.
He wants the hydraulic seat post for his bikes to be covered, as these werent 
included when he bought the bikes  they were  bought separately.  However, the 
branch he bought  the seat post from has since closed so he cant  provide a receipt 
for it. He also forgot to claim for the bikes pedals, which  were  added post-purchase.  
Hes unhappy with my recommendation of £1,200 for building repairs,  rubbish 
clearance and shelving.  He said £1,200 should only cover repairs, and asked 
whether interest  would  be added to this amount. 
He can claim  £150  for rubbish clearance  under the policy and has receipts for 
rubbish bags, which he provided previously.  
To support his comments  on the cost of repairs, Mr W provided an email sent to the loss 
adjuster on 26 January  2018. Mr W listed the materials  needed for the repairs to be £372.37  
with £1,500 for labour.  Hed previously  told the loss adjuster  the materials for replacement 
shelving would cost £320.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive dealt with the items claimed  for which are not in dispute first. Mr W accepted  Lloyds offer 
for the following:
£59.95 for a head torch
£325.99 for a night  searcher
£9.95 for batteries
£19.99 for a holdall
£474 for a Panther night searcher light
£249 for a Garmin  GPS
I cant see why Lloyds  hasnt settled this part of the claim yet. So I think  it should  pay out for 
these items  as soon  as possible  plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the loss 
until the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN93179774Turning to the remainder  of the claim, most  of the disputes centre  on whether or not Mr W 
has substantiated his claim. The terms of Mr Ws policy set out that Mr W must be able to 
prove and substantiate  his losses.  The policy gives examples of reasonable information  
Lloyds might ask for, which include original  purchase dates and receipts, invoices and 
photographs of lost items. While  Id expect  Lloyds to take a realistic approach and bear in 
mind people cant always provide receipts  or documents etc. to substantiate all their losses, 
Ive kept this term in mind  when considering the following  items.
the bikes and bike accessories
Lloyds notes say Mr W claimed for accessories for the bikes, including seats, seat posts,  
mudguards and cup holders. The pedal cycle cover section of Mr Ws policy  sets out that 
loss of his bikes  and their accessories is included under  his policy   up to the defined  limit as 
set by Mr W. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr W in August 2017  to confirm hed amended the limits for his bikes.  The 
letter asked him to read the letter carefully  to understand the excesses and limits  that apply 
to his policy and what he was now covered for. The letter  specified  the limits for each bike  
which were based  on the values Mr W gave Lloyds. And Lloyds isnt obliged  to pay anything 
over the policy  limit for the bikes. So  overall   Im satisfied  Lloyds  only has to pay the 
£6,000 policy limit for the stolen bikes.
Lloyds offered £50 in compensation for misleading  Mr W after he made the claim by saying it 
would replace the bikes like for like, which I think fairly recognises any disappointment 
caused. But it remains that Lloyds isnt obliged to pay anything over the policy limit Mr W set 
for the bikes. 
I know Mr W is disappointed Lloyds said his policy limit includes the bike-related items  hes 
claimed for  seats, seat posts, cup holders and mud guards. The policy  wording says it 
covers loss or damage  to pedal cycles and their accessories,  but Mr Ws policy schedule 
doesnt make it clear the policy  limit for each bike includes its accessories. So I can 
understand why Mr W was confused about whether the policy  limit included its accessories.  I 
think any item thats part of the bikes is included in the policy  limit, but accessories are not.
Mr W says he bought  seat posts and seats separately to the bikes,  but I remain of the view 
that a seat post and seat are an integral part of a bike, and are included  in the policy  limit for 
each bike. 
Mr W also claimed for mud guards and cup holders, which I think  these  should  be 
considered as accessories. As the policy schedule wasnt  clear  the limit for each  bike 
included its accessories, I think Lloyds should consider Mr Ws claim for these. If Mr W can 
provide receipts  for the mud guards and cup holders or other  suitable  evidence to 
substantiate his claim  for these items,  Id expect Lloyds to meet  Mr Ws claim as his policy 
provides a total policy limit up to £10,000. But if Mr W cant provide  receipts  or other 
evidence to Lloyds  to prove his ownership,  such as photos of the seats  and posts on the 
bikes before  they were  stolen, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to pay anything  for these. 
Mr W says he forgot to include pedals  on his claim  which  is something he should approach 
Lloyds about  as Lloyds  hasnt had the chance  to consider this claim,  Ive not addressed  it 
as part of this complaint.
the nail gun
Ref: DRN93179775Mr W has provided details of a nail gun and sent in details of a similar  nail gun he found  
online. Hes also provided photos  of what he says is the case  from his nail gun, which tallies  
with information  hed given about  the nail guns manufacturer. So hes provided  some of the 
substantiation. And Lloyds hasnt said why it doesnt think  this information is a reasonable 
way for Mr W to substantiate his loss, or what else it would expect him to provide. So I think  
Lloyds should  meet this aspect of Mr Ws claim.  Lloyds has indicated  it will try to replace the 
nail gun. Lloyds should do so in accordance with the claims settlement terms in his policy,  or 
settle Mr Ws claim in cash. 
welding equipment
Mr W has said he cant provide receipts for the welding equipment, which  he says was 
damaged. But he has provided photos  to establish  he owned the items. Its for Lloyds to 
show why these items wouldnt be covered and I dont think  Lloyds has properly done so. So 
I think Lloyds should settle Mr Ws claim for these  items as per the claims settlement terms 
in his policy. 
repairs to the garage blockwork, rubbish clearance and shelving
Ive thought about Mr Ws argument that Lloyds original offer was £1,200 for the blockwork  
and repairs. But Mr Ws then increased  the amount he was claiming for, including  rubbish 
clearance and repairs.  Lloyds says Mr Ws claim for 47.5 hours of labour is excessive based 
on the photos provided and thought  £513.47 for the cost of repairs alone was reasonable. 
I know Mr W says Lloyds original offer was £1,200 for the repairs only. But I remain  of the 
view that the fair and reasonable  solution here is for Lloyds to pay Mr W the £1,200  for the 
garage repairs, including repairs  to the walls and blockwork, shelving and rubbish  clearance. 
This covers the costs Mr W has evidenced for labour  and materials for the repairs  and 
rubbish clearance,  as well as his original estimate for the cost of materials and labour to 
replace the shelving. 
Mr W hasnt provided  evidence  to support his claim for £1,850  of labour. Similarly, hes not 
provided an itemised estimate or invoice  for the cost of materials  or labour needed  to replace 
the shelving. And whilst  Mr W believes he can claim up to £150 for rubbish  clearance, hes 
not provided evidence he incurred £150 of costs involved in rubbish clearance.  Lloyds  asked 
Mr W for invoices for the purchase of the shelving and supporting documentation in 
March 2018. I cant  see that Mr W has provided  anything other  than his emails with his own,  
un-itemised, estimates of the costs, which arent the invoices or supporting documentation 
Lloyds asked for. I think Mr Ws had ample  opportunity to provide the evidence Lloyds asked 
for, so I cant recommend  Lloyds pay anything other than the £1,200 its offered for the 
materials, labour, shelving  and rubbish clearance. 
the garage door
Lloyds has provided  photographs, which it says shows  the same garage  door was being 
used after the incident Mr Ws claimed  for. Based on this, it didnt  think  the door needed to 
be replaced. Lloyds  also said theres  no obvious sign of any physical  damage  to the door.  
When Mr W disputed  this, it sent out an engineer, as I would expect. Lloyds engineer said 
he wasnt able to inspect  the garage door and Lloyds  cancelled Mr Ws policy because of 
how the engineers visit went. I know Mr W wants Lloyds to settle this part of his claim  even 
Ref: DRN93179776though it hasnt inspected the door.  But I dont think its Lloyds fault it hasnt inspected the 
door. Mr W says the engineer was argumentative  and he reiterated his version of events in 
response to my provisional  decision. But  based on the notes on Lloyds file I dont think  the 
engineers decision  to end the visit was an unreasonable one. And I dont  think  Lloyds is 
being unreasonable in refusing  to send someone  else to inspect  the garage door.
Mr W has since provided photos, which he says show  the garage  door is damaged and 
needs to be replaced.  And Lloyds has indicated its prepared to reconsider settling this 
aspect of Mr Ws claim. Lloyds says it would expect  to see a receipt for a replacement  
garage door and information of costs involved in fitting, including details of who fitted the 
replacement door before  it settles. And if Mr W isnt able to provide  proof  of the costs  of 
replacing the door, then I wouldnt expect Lloyds to meet the claim. 
And I dont  expect Lloyds  to compensate  Mr W if the door hasnt been replaced yet  but it 
may now want to reconsider and send out another representative to assess  any repairs or 
replacement needed,  and the costs  involved.  In any event, I think Lloyds offer to reconsider  
Mr Ws claim for the garage door is a reasonable one. Mr W should liaise  with Lloyds directly 
about this matter.
conclusions
I think Lloyds should pay for the following items:  
£59.95 for a head torch
£325.99 for a night  searcher
£9.95 for batteries
£19.99 for a holdall
£474 for a Panther night searcher light
£249 for a Garmin  GPS
£6,000 for the bikes  in total,  without a separate  payment for  the seat posts and 
seats
Lloyds should  also settle Mr Ws claim under the terms  of his policy for the following items:
The nail gun, bearing in mind the price of the similar model Mr W sent to Lloyds may 
have changed
The welding equipment
Mud guards and cup holders for the bikes, subject to Mr W providing receipts or other 
proof of ownership 
As Mr W queried  the interest payable on the claim,  I should clarify that interest at 8% simple  
should be paid on the items set out above  from the date of the loss until the date of 
settlement. 
I think Lloyds should also pay Mr W £1,200 for the cost of the garage repairs,  including  
blockwork repairs, materials and labour. Lloyds should reconsider Mr Ws claim for the 
garage door,  as I set out above.
Ref: DRN93179777Lloyds has paid Mr W £50 compensation for any disappointment in relation to his claim for 
the stolen bikes.  Its also offered  £100 for the delays in considering his claim. I think this offer 
is fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds  Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9317977