K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly and unreasonably declined  his claim 
under a legal  expenses  insurance policy. He wants the claim accepted.
background
Mr B had a legal expenses insurance  policy with Great Lakes. He had an employment 
dispute and wanted assistance.  But Great  Lakes  declined to accept the claim as it thought 
Mr Bs claim didnt  reasonable  prospects of success as required under the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mr B complained to Great Lakes.  It said it was able to rely on the assessment of a qualified 
lawyer and it had been  told Mr Bs claim didnt have reasonable  prospects  of success by two 
different firms (it got a second opinion at Mr Bs request). Great Lakes said it would review  
its decision if Mr B provided a detailed opinion from his chosen solicitors explaining why they 
thought the claim  had reasonable prospects  of success.
Mr B complained to us and said he had advice that his claim had reasonable prospects of 
success. The investigators view was the Great Lakes wasnt at fault. He noted that the 
policy excluded professional fees and/or defendant  costs if the claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success, which was defined as having at least  51% prospects  of 
being successful. The investigator said that this was standard and wasnt unfair  as legal 
proceedings could be expensive.
The investigator also said that it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to rely on a properly 
written and reasoned  assessment from a suitable  qualified lawyer unless it was obviously 
wrong, and in Mr Bs case, thought the assessments Great  Lakes received met this test. He 
pointed out that in contrast the assessment  from Mr Bs solicitors didnt provide any 
reasoning. The investigator said if Mr B wanted his claim reviewed by Great  Lakes as it had 
offered, he should  provide the reasoning  from his solicitor.
Mr B disagreed. He said this service was biased  and the one line from his chosen solicitor  
was enough for his claim to be accepted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When I refer to Great Lakes,  Im also 
referring to its agents.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy itself. It does require claims to 
have a reasonable prospect of success,  which is defined as having at least  51% prospects 
of being successful and recovering the loss or enforcing the remedy sought. This isnt unfair 
or unreasonable as generally  reasonable people  dont  want  to pay for potentially  expensive 
litigation (or the other sides costs) if theyre not likely to win; its a standard exclusion for 
legal expenses insurance policies.
Ref: DRN95633602Mr B isnt disputing the existence of this exclusion.  His complaint is that his claim has been  
declined due to two firms  of solicitors assessing  his claim as not having reasonable 
prospects of success,  when he has a letter from another  firm saying that his claim does have 
reasonable prospects, but not saying why.
The two firms of solicitors  who assessed Mr Bs claim are suitably qualified lawyers  with 
specialist knowledge  of employment  law. The assessments  are lengthy, reasoned and refer 
to the evidence provided by Mr B; the relevant legal principles  are set out. From reading the 
assessments, theres nothing that I think a layman  (given that insurers  arent lawyers) would 
think was obviously wrong.  Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable  for Great  Lakes to 
rely on the assessments to decide that Mr Bs claim didnt  have  reasonable prospects of 
success, based on what was available to it at the time (later  events or evidence dont change  
what was available  at the time to the insurer).
I also think Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr Bs unhappiness 
about the decline of his claim. It obtained  a second  opinion and has offered to review the 
matter again if Mr B provides a reasoned opinion from his chosen  solicitors as to why theyre 
saying his claim has reasonable  prospects  of success. Its fair and reasonable for Great 
Lakes to conclude  that one line saying  that the claim has such  prospects isnt sufficient,  
given the detail in the two other assessments  its received.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
6 August 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9563360