K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2005.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Bs credit  card account  when she applied for the card during a meeting at the bank.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint because:
I think Bank of Scotland made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional  and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because  she made  it clear on the application form she 
signed that she wanted to take the policy out. The application form Mrs B signed 
showed she had a choice. And although  the cross in the box for PPI is electronically  
populated I think  this happened  as a result of a conversation she had with a Bank of 
Scotland adviser. She also signed  separately for the PPI on the reverse of the credit 
agreement.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs B, so it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for her and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  
on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need for the cover  because she didnt  
have any sick pay available to her. Mrs B says she wouldve relied on her husband  to 
meet her repayments if necessary, but the PPI wouldve meant he didnt need to do 
that, and couldve  helped out instead with other uninsured expenses.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest that it was unaffordable for 
Mrs B. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said - including what she has said about not 
knowing she had the PPI and that it was added without her consent, but these points dont 
change my decision.
Ref: DRN93440432This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mrs B paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs B back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If it hasnt  already, Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mrs B now Ive issued 
my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9344043