K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs M say Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. 
The policy covered both Mr and Mrs M.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt  have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they may not remember 
this. I say this because Ive seen copies of some of the paperwork completed  at the 
time of sale including a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms PPI application form. 
Although the information on this form has been  typed, I think  that since this policy 
was sold in a meeting  and some of Mr and Mrs Ms other personal information has 
also been typed  on the form that its more likely than not that a conversation  took 
place about Mr and Mrs Ms personal  circumstances   such  as the typed information 
about their health  circumstances and then they signed  the form to agree to take out 
PPI.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I 
think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong.  It  also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better  information  about 
the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - including  what theyve  said about 
not needing PPI because  of their existing means  of making their repayments. In particular,  
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they didnt  need PPI as they had assets including cars and a 
boat that they could  have  sold to make their repayments. But the value of these assets isnt 
guaranteed and they may not be easily converted into money that they could use to make 
their repayments. In addition, having  the PPI policy would mean that they wouldnt need  to 
sell their assets to make  the mortgage repayments. 
This PPI policy would have paid out for longer  than the redundancy entitlement  that Mr and 
Mrs M have  told us about would have lasted. 
Ive also noted  that Mr M has said in the PPI questionnaire that he was made  redundant, but 
when he asked if he could  claim,  he was told no. My decision doesnt deal with any 
Ref: DRN99436062attempted claim,  but Mr and Mrs M have  the option of speaking to Halifax  about this if its 
something theyre unhappy  about.
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs M back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9943606