K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains TSB Bank plc wont reimburse her for a payment she made  as part of a 
scam. Shes  also unhappy with the customer service  she received in relation to this scam.
background
On 20 March 2019, Mrs S made an online payment of £500 as part of a scam. She says she 
was searching for flights and was contacted by someone who offered her a good price,  so 
she agreed to pay a deposit. She became suspicious after speaking to her family and so 
didnt pay anything further. 
Mrs S expected to receive the tickets by 6pm the next day - she initially  told us that when 
this didnt happen, she contacted TSB that evening (21 March 2019). However, Mrs S has 
since said she thinks she contacted them  sooner.
TSBs notes  show the scam reported in the evening on 21 March  2019 and has provided  
evidence it contacted the receiving bank around an hour later, notifying it of the fraud. The 
receiving bank confirmed  to TSB that none of Mrs S funds remained and so it wouldnt be 
sending any back to TSB for Mrs S. 
TSB declined to provide Mrs S with a refund, saying this was because  shed authorised  the 
payment herself  and so it hadnt  made an error.
Mrs S had raised customer service concerns  from her overall  experience related to this fraud  
- including having calls terminated and poor updates. TSB paid Mrs S £25 compensation in 
recognition of its customer service issues.
Mrs S doesnt think this is enough  and added that TSBs fraud refund guarantee was 
launched very soon  after she fell victim.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She didnt think TSB made  an error in making 
the payment in the circumstances and said it had done what it could to recover  Mrs S funds 
for her. She explained  the TSB fraud  refund guarantee wasnt  retrospective  and that she 
thought the compensation  paid was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs S didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN95975922But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like TSB are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).
And, as a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also 
have taken proactive  steps to: 
oidentify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers 
Associations February 2016 report improving  outcomes  for customers in 
vulnerable circumstances);  
olook to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes  October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud or financial 
abuse  Code of Practice, which a number  of banks and trade associations 
were involved  in the development of)
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mrs S when it made a payment of £500  to a new payee in March  2019, or whether it should  
have done more than it did.
Having considered Mrs S normal banking activity,  I dont  think this payment was suspicious 
or unusual  enough to say TSB ought  to have had concerns that Mrs S was potentially the 
victim of fraud. The amount of the payment wasnt particularly unusual  for payments coming  
out of her account,  nor was the payment method.
Ive looked at whether TSB did enough  to help Mrs S once it was aware of the fraud.  Firstly, I 
think its most likely  that this was reported  on the evening of the 21 March 2019  on the basis 
that this is consistent  with Mrs S initial complaint and TSBs records. Once  a fraud is 
reported, its good practice for a bank  to notify the receiving bank quickly.  TSB did so around 
an hour after Mrs S call. While Mrs S has described  concerns about the knowledge and 
empathy of the people at TSB she spoke with, I dont think this impacted the recovery  of her 
funds. I say this because the receiving bank has confirmed to us that Mrs Ss payment was 
withdrawn from the receiving account  within hours  of the payment being made. It appears 
this fraudster was receiving funds from multiple sources and withdrawing these funds 
quickly. Unfortunately this is not uncommon,  and its why time is of the essence when 
Ref: DRN95975923seeking to recover  funds. But in this case, it appears  Mrs S funds were withdrawn before 
she contacted  TSB with her concerns.
I fully understand  Mrs S believed she was dealing with a legitimate company. Unfortunately,  
scammers can be quite sophisticated and convincing in their methods. Ive thought about the 
distress and inconvenience Mrs S experienced and I think the award of £25 already paid by 
TSB is fair in the circumstances. I appreciate this was likely a stressful  time, but much of that 
will be linked to the fact shes been  scammed and lost money. Whilst this is of course  
understandable, it was caused by the fraudster rather than TSB.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9597592