K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) didn't act correctly  when 
they made an early  repayment on a secured loan that had a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  alongside it. 
background
In June 2005, Mr and Mrs M took out a secured loan for £8,500, which was to be repaid over 
five years.  They also took a PPI policy at the same time, which  was paid for upfront. This is 
called a single premium policy.
The policy cost £1,568.25 and in the event of a successful claim, it would pay out a monthly  
benefit of £165.55. Mr M was the first person  insured and was covered for accident,  
hospitalisation, life, redundancy and sickness. Mrs M had life cover only.  
The loan was repaid early.  The terms and conditions explain that in the case of early 
settlement of the loan, the PPI would remain in force and would provide income protection  
benefits to the end of the original loan term.
The alternative was that the customer could cancel the insurance policy  and provided  a 
claim hadnt been paid, a refund could  be requested  by contacting the business.
After the loan was repaid, Mr and Mrs M became concerned that the policy  didn't remain in 
force as an income  protection  policy. They say they werent  notified  of the changes to the 
policy. Mr and Mrs M feel they qualify for a refund under the policy terms. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold  the complaint. Mr and Mrs M didn't agree and as the complaint 
remains unresolved  it has been passed to me for decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been a lot of correspondence  for this complaint, and I appreciate the effort  
Mr and Mrs M have  made. Just to be clear,  Im only considering whether the policy  did 
remain in force as described. I will not be considering any other elements of the sale of the 
policy itself.  
I note the adjudicator quoted from the terms and conditions attached  to the policy  and given 
to Mr and Mrs M, along with policy document and welcome letter  in July 2005. 
I shant quote  them again as they are not relevant to the complaint of whether the policy  
remained in force as an income protection policy. The terms and conditions made clear that 
if the loan agreement was settled before the end date, then the policy would remain  in force  
but would  provide the customer with income protection benefits. 
The terms and conditions  also confirmed that as an alternative,  customers could request a 
refund of a proportion  of the premium  paid if they contacted the business. 
Ref: DRN92542612Because of this, Im satisfied that Pinnacle gave  clear information about  what the options 
were in the event  of early settlement. It wasnt responsible for explaining the terms of the 
policy to Mr and Mrs M as it didn't  sell the policy to them. 
Mr and Mrs M have  said they spoke with a representative  of Pinnacle who confirmed that it 
wasnt aware the loan agreement  had been  settled early. Mr and Mrs M have  understood 
this to mean that the PPI didn't remain in force  as an income  protection policy  and they 
should be provided with a refund, which was the alternative option. 
But I disagree. The terms and conditions of the policy say that if Mr or Mrs M had made a 
successful claim  during the term of the policy, during the term of the original loan agreement, 
then the policy would  have paid the benefits as described at the outset  of the PPI 
agreement. But Mr and Mrs M could have used the benefits as they chose, rather than to 
repay the loan - which they had already done.  There is nothing  to suggest that the policy  
didn't remain  in force or that a successful  claim wouldnt  be paid after the loan was repaid. 
And I cant see that Mr and Mrs M asked for a refund when the loan was settled early.
So I dont  think Pinnacle does have to pay a refund  to Mr and Mrs M.
Ive carefully considered  all of the comments Mr and Mrs M have made and I appreciate  the 
effort they have  made  in bringing their complaint. But because  of what  Ive said above, these 
comments dont change  my mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9254261