K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax unfairly registered a default  on 
his credit file.
background
Mr I says his account went into an unarranged  overdraft but Halifax accepted it made a 
mistake and refunded  charges and fees.  He says it paid him compensation but has unfairly  
registered a default on his credit  file. Mr I says he would like that default removed and says 
he was promised a call back by Halifax and during a telephone call in 2017 he offered to 
repay some of the debt. In summary  Mr I says Halifax hasnt acted fairly and this problem 
could have been avoided when he made the offer to it.
Halifax upheld Mr Is complaint in part and refunded charges and fees as well as paying 
compensation. It says it didnt make a mistake  by registering a default and wrote to Mr I on a 
number of occasions, but he didnt  make any required  payments towards  the debt and says 
an overdraft is repayable on demand. Halifax says it will backdate  the default to April 2018.
Mr I brought his complaint to us and our investigator  didnt uphold it. The investigator thought  
Halifax was entitled  to close the account and demand repayment of the overdraft.  The 
investigator also thought Halifax gave appropriate  notice to Mr I and that he didnt  make  any 
payments into his account. The investigator thought Halifax acted fairly by refunding  charges 
and fees.
Mr I doesnt accept that view and in summary says Halifax should have agreed a repayment 
plan with him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come  to the overall  view that I dont uphold  this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr I will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked  carefully  at Halifaxs records and at the letters it sent to Mr I. Im satisfied that 
Halifax wrote  to Mr I on numerous occasions and it ought reasonably to have been clear to 
him that he owed Halifax money, which it wanted  repaying. I also think Mr I would have had 
access to account  statements  and ought  to have been aware there  was a balance owed to 
Halifax. So, I dont think Halifax made a mistake or acted unfairly by asking  him to repay the 
money and I think it was entitled  to close the account when  Mr I didnt make contact with it or 
repay the money.
I appreciate Mr I did have a conversation with Halifax in around 2017. But Im satisfied it was 
Mr Is responsibility  to manage the account  and it was up to him to make sure there  was an 
agreement in place  to repay  the debt. I find there wasnt an agreement and so Halifax was 
entitled to close  the account and register a default on Mr Is credit  file. Im satisfied that 
Halifax is obliged to accurately report the account position to the Credit  Reference Agencies 
and, by fairly backdating the default, I think that is what it did.
I accept there was some confusion about what had taken place, but I can see that Halifax  
fairly agreed  to refund charges and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of 
Ref: DRN90833612compensation. I appreciate that isnt the main  part of this complaint, but I make that clear in 
any event.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr I owed Halifax money and there was no agreement  in place to repay 
it. I find that Halifax was entitled  in line with agreed account terms and conditions to close 
the account and register a default on Mr Is credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9083361