K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains TSB Bank plc unfairly  refused to give him access  to a payment made to his 
account from abroad. He says their actions  are discriminatory. He would like them to pay 
him compensation.
Background
Mr C held a current account  with TSB and had done so for some time. In June 2018 a 
payment for £91.06 was made to his account from a person he says is a friend.  TSB 
restricted access to the payment and returned  it to the account  of origin in September 2018.
During this time Mr C made various  trips to his TSB branch  to discuss the payment over the 
phone with another TSB department. He says he was told the payment was stopped 
because of the country it originated from. Mr C says he told them  multiple times the payment 
didnt originate  from that country, but from a country  in the European Union. He says he 
showed them details  of the payment to demonstrate  this.
Mr C says the payer decided to re-send him the money via another payment transfer  method 
not involving  TSB. He made a complaint to TSB, which they rejected. He thinks TSB lied to 
him about the country of origin and hes been  the victim of discrimination because of his 
nationality. He also thinks they caused him inconvenience and they took too long to return  
the payment.
TSB say their decision  to prevent access to the payment and to return it to source was in line 
with their legal  and regulatory obligations.  They also say they cant explain the delay in 
processing the return and this was a bank error. During the time the complaint has been with 
our service  TSB decided  to end its customer relationship with Mr C and closed  his account.
An investigator at our service looked into Mr Cs concerns. They told Mr C as his account 
closure was a new complaint issue, he would need  to make another complaint to TSB about 
this. Mr C accepted this. 
In terms of the complaint before them, the investigator found TSB had acted in line with its 
regulatory and legal  obligations, so they werent  going to award any compensation. And 
while the bank  admitted  to making  an error in taking as long as they did to return  the 
payment, this didnt  impact on Mr C enough  to the extent  it warranted compensation.
Mr C strongly  disagreed. He says he did experience  inconvenience and was lied to about the 
country of origin the payment came from. After reflecting further on what Mr C had said,  the 
investigator changed their opinion and recommended TSB pay him £50 in compensation. 
TSB accepted the recommendation.
 
Mr C didnt accept the recommendation and has asked for a final decision  from an 
ombudsman, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide. Mr C has highlighted the 
following for my consideration: He says TSB:
-lied to him about the country of origin. 
-discriminated against him on the basis of his nationality. He and the person who sent 
him the payment are EU citizens. Hes a political refugee  who had fled his country of 
birth, so TSBs actions have left him feeling victimised.
Ref: DRN99964012-sent a letter saying the delay to the payment  wasnt  processed  due to a system error, 
even though he never received payment and theyd given a different reason to him 
previously. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mr Cs complaint in part for similar  reasons to those made by the investigator - but not on the 
basis Mr C has put forward. Ill explain why.
Mr C accepts the closure of his account is a new complaint, so I must be clear it hasnt 
formed part of my considerations in deciding this complaint.  Instead  my primary  
consideration has been whether TSB acted appropriately when refusing Mr C access to the 
payment and then returning it to source. 
Mr C says TSB lied to him about  the country of origin from where the payment  was made. I 
have considered what hes said carefully, and from the information  Ive available the payment 
does appear to have  originated from the country  he says it did. I dont have a copy  of the 
recordings of calls Mr C made when in a TSB branch, and there  is insufficient  evidence for 
me to fairly conclude  there was any intent to deceive  Mr C. But I accept its the case  that 
miscommunication may have taken  place at some point by TSB, including  by letter.
TSB, however, hasnt  told me they disagree with Mr C about the country  the payment 
originated from. Indeed,  I find there  is agreement on this matter by both parties. So, Ive 
gone on to consider the legitimacy  of TSBs actions away from this issue. 
TSB has a wide variety of legal and regulatory  obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to its customers. These obligations are ongoing and do not only apply when  an 
account is opened. To comply with those obligations  TSB may need to ask questions in 
relation to an account and consider the activities taking place on it, including  payments. It 
may also need to act in relation to an account  where appropriate, which  may include  
preventing access to payments and returning  them  to source.  If TSB didnt on occasion act it 
could risk serious sanction.
I understand Mr C thinks there  is no basis for TSB to have  prevented him from accessing the 
payment, or for them to have returned  it to source.  He says the transaction  was proper and 
TSB have  discriminated against  him because of his nationality. Ive considered what hes 
said very carefully, particularly what hes said about his circumstances  and prior history, 
which I was very sorry to hear about.  And I want to make clear  I do not doubt how genuinely  
he feels about this matter and the upset TSBs actions  have  caused  him. 
But Ive also had to consider Mr Cs position  alongside all the wider  information available to 
me, including  the wide regulatory and legal obligations TSB must balance  when taking 
decisions. And in doing so, Im satisfied  TSB made a legitimate and proportionate decision in 
preventing access to the payment and returning  it to the account of origin. This doesnt of 
course mean  that I think  Mr C has committed any crime or wrongdoing. That is not what  I 
need to decide; nor was it required of TSB to decide in order to take the action  they did.
Ref: DRN99964013Mr C has said there  are no legal or regulatory  obligations or widespread  banking  policy  which 
permit TSB to take action on the basis of someones country of birth. But I havent made a 
finding that TSB did act for this reason, and Ive not seen  any written policy document to that 
effect either.  Instead  there  are a large number  of regulations and laws banks must take heed  
of in running customers accounts.  And it is in relation to those obligations that I find TSBs 
decision to stop the payment and return it to source  wasnt improper. 
Mr C wants more exact information on the obligations banks  must  have regard  to and 
balance and this is understandable. But it is not for me to detail  them in this decision. The 
regulatory and legal  obligations banks must follow is public information  which  Mr C is free to 
research. And he appears well placed to do so in light of what  hes said about his 
educational background.  Mr C says he is the victim  of discrimination by TSB. But while  I 
appreciate this is his perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken 
place as a matter of law  only the courts have the power to decide  this.
I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what  Mr C has said when  deciding  
what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the 
provisions of The Equality  Act 2010.  But after doing  so Ive not seen evidence to indicate Mr C 
was discriminated on the grounds of his nationality, so I havent  found that TSBs behaviour  
was improper.
 
TSB has acknowledged it took too long to return the payment back  to source and theyve  
accepted the recommendation  the investigator  made. I appreciate Mr C made several 
journeys to branch in an attempt to get them to change their stance and find out what  had 
happened to the payment. And had the payment been returned earlier, it may have 
prevented some of the inconvenience  and worry he experienced. But I still find the 
compensatory figure  of £50 is reasonable, primarily because I find the basis  behind  TSBs 
decision wasnt improper. So, Im not awarding  any further compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  Mr Cs complaint  against  TSB Bank plc and direct 
them to pay Mr C £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9996401