K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains on behalf of R, a limited company, that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc has frozen 
over £21,000 in Rs account.
background
Mr G is the sole director  of R, and he represents  the company in this complaint. R has a 
business current account with Barclays. In April 2018 the account  balance was over 
£40,000. Barclays froze about £21,700 of this money, which showed on the account  
statement as if it was a payment.  (The remaining balance was still available.)  Mr G 
complained to Barclays, and Barclays replied to say that a restraint  order  had been issued 
against him, and it had been bound to comply with the order.  It suggested that Mr G should  
contact the other party named in the order.
Mr G brought this complaint to our Service, on behalf of R. He said he had never received 
the restraint order. He said the frozen funds had come from a legitimate source,  and he had 
made every effort to prove this by taking various documents  such as invoices to different 
branches of Barclays, but to no avail. As a result, his business had failed, and he was 
experiencing very serious financial hardship. He said he had received  no explanation from 
Barclays as to why it would not accept  his evidence.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He told Mr G that he was unable to share with 
him the information  Barclays  had provided, but he was satisfied that Barclays had acted 
properly. He suggested that if Mr G wanted  to take any further action then he should  obtain 
legal advice.
Mr G did not accept that opinion. He said he could  no longer afford  to instruct lawyers,  as a 
direct result of the banks  actions. He said that no adequate explanation had been given. He 
said it was clear that the frozen funds had come from a legitimate source, but if Barclays  
would not let him have them then they should  be returned to the third party  account  they 
came from,  and then he could recover his good  from the third party.  He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read of Mr Gs financial difficulties. He has clearly  had a very tough time. 
However, I am unable  to uphold this complaint, because Barclays  had no choice but to 
comply with the restraint order. It was not in a position to challenge the order on his behalf, 
however much evidence  he provided  about where  the money had come from.
I am afraid that the only way R can get its money back is if the restraint order  is set aside. 
Only a court can do that, and neither Barclays nor the Financial  Ombudsman  Service are 
able to assist  R or Mr G with that. If Mr G cannot  afford to pay a lawyer  up front, then he may 
be able to instruct a lawyer under a conditional  fee agreement (also  known, not entirely 
accurately, as no win, no fee). Since Mr G says he does not have a copy  of the restraint  
order, I have asked  Barclays to provide a copy.
Ref: DRN96086832Mr G will need  to act quickly, because the Registrar of Companies has issued a notice to 
strike his company  off the register  and dissolve it, which will happen in February  2019 unless 
Mr G can persuade the Registrar not to do so. If R is dissolved then all of its assets  
including the frozen  funds   will belong to the Crown.
I do not uphold  the complaint about  Barclays  not corresponding further with Mr G, because 
its final response letter was its final word on the subject. It told him how to complain to our 
Service. There was little or nothing which Barclays could add, as it was not in a position  to 
answer questions  about  the restraint order or to help him in having the order  set aside. 
I cannot infer that Barclays was responsible  for the order having  been made  in the first 
place.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G, on behalf of 
R, to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2019. But if we dont hear from him then 
we will presume that he rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9608683