K821x#15the complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the advice he received from Anthony Feeney Financial Services  
(AFFS) to transfer his existing pension plan into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
The reason  for making the transfer was to allow  Mr K to invest  in store pods through Store 
First. 
Mr Ks complaint is made,  on his behalf,  by his representative, Money and Me Claims 
Limited. 
background to the complaint
Mr K was put in touch  with AFFS during the latter part of 2013 to discuss  his pension  
arrangements. An adviser  from AFFS carried out a review of his circumstances.  AFFS 
advised Mr K to transfer his existing personal  pension plan to a SIPP.  This was so he could 
then invest in store pods,  an unregulated  investment. 
The transfer value  of Mr Ks existing pension was just over £20,000. This was transferred to 
the SIPP at the end of December 2013. £11,250  of this was then invested in store pods at 
the end of the following  month. But it seems that this investment  is now illiquid. Mr K is 
worried that hes lost his money. 
So in October  2016  he complained, via his representative, to AFFS about the advice hed 
received. In brief, Mr K said:  the advice was unsuitable; he had no knowledge or experience 
of investments: he questioned how his attitude to risk had been  assessed; and, AFFS hadnt 
followed the relevant  rules  and regulations. Mr K wants compensation for the money he says 
hes lost. 
AFFS rejected the complaint. Again in brief, it said Mr K had only asked  for advice about 
setting up the SIPP. He expressly hadnt asked for advice about the suitability of investing  in 
store pods. AFFS also said it had warned Mr K about the risks involved with this investment 
but he still chose  to go ahead with it. This meant AFFS wasnt  to blame  for any loss Mr K 
might have suffered.  
Mr K wasnt  happy with this response. So he brought  the complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. In summary, he thought the complaint should be upheld. The 
adjudicator said AFFS  had tried to restrict its advice only to the opening of the SIPP. But the 
regulator had made  it clear that it wasnt fair to ignore the suitability of the proposed  
investment. The adjudicator said AFFS knew the investment wasnt  suitable. So the advice 
for Mr K to transfer his pension plan to the SIPP also must have been unsuitable. The 
adjudicator then set out how he thought AFFS needed to put things right. 
AFFS didnt agree with the adjudicators view. Via its representative at that time, AFFS 
repeated the same  points  which the adjudicator  has already seen  that it had previously 
made to Mr K. AFFS also said the store pods werent either  a specified investment or a 
designated investment as set out in the relevant regulations  so we are wrongly classifying 
these as an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).  
This didnt  change the adjudicators view.  As no agreement has been reached,  this 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN94076922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done, so Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Both AFFS  and Mr K, via their various representatives, have  made numerous points to 
support their respective positions. Im very aware  that Ive summarised  this complaint in far 
less detail and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what  I think  
is the key issue  here: was AFFSs advice to Mr K to transfer his existing pension  to a SIPP 
suitable? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Ill first deal with the issue of our jurisdiction. In general terms, the original representative for 
AFFS argued that the store  pods investment wasnt either a specified investment or a 
designated investment as set out in the relevant regulations.  This meant  the investment 
wasnt an UCIS. So the advice to invest in store pods wasnt  an activity covered  by our 
service. 
But the advice  to invest in store pods isnt the activity Im looking at. Im looking at the advice  
Mr K was given to open a SIPP. That is a regulated activity. It doesnt  matter whether or not 
the store pods  investment  was an UCIS.  
The rules  that AFFS had to follow are set out in the regulators handbook. The advice given  
to Mr K needed to take into account the relevant rules. This is irrespective of whether the 
store pods investment was or wasnt a regulated product. The regulations required the 
advice given to Mr K to be suitable. To do that, AFFS had to get enough information  about 
his circumstances  at the time. 
AFFS completed a fact find that was signed by Mr K in November 2013.  This recorded his 
personal circumstances. But not a lot of detail was included. For instance, it didnt include 
Mr Ks outgoings, or if he had any assets,  savings or investments  other  than his existing  
pension plan. 
The fact find did state that the pension benefits of Mr Ks existing plan were an insignificant 
part of his overall financial wealth. But there is no detail  at all to explain  how this statement 
was arrived at. As Ive just said, theres  no record of Mr K having any other assets, savings 
or investments other than his existing personal  pension plan. 
The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The fourth box adventurous was ticked. This attitude  
to risk was explained as: 
You prefer to invest in more specialised stock-market  linked investments, in return for the 
potential for increased  capital growth.  Again, investment returns  will fluctuate according to 
market conditions, however, these  fluctuations  will be more pronounced. 
Ref: DRN94076923But the pronounced fluctuation part of this statement is contradicted later on in the fact find 
where there  is a hand written note which  says:
Mr K froze  his pension because he was not happy  with the yo yoing of his pension  
performance
. 
The fact find also had the following box ticked:
I have no  or very little  experience  or understanding of investment markets.
Underneath this, a hand written note states:
I have very little understanding of investment markets.  I like the idea of fixed  returns offered 
by alternative investments.
Theres no detail on how Mr Ks attitude to risk was assessed. The available  evidence points 
to him having very limited  investment knowledge, if any at all. Mr K certainly doesnt seem  to 
have invested  in high risk speculative products before. Other  than his existing  pension,  
theres nothing to show he had any other investments whatsoever. So I dont think I can rely 
on the fact find recording  his attitude to risk as adventurous.  
Im satisfied that given  Mr Ks lack of investment experience, he was relying on AFFS to give 
him suitable advice.  Whatever his actual attitude  to risk was, it was also important for AFFS 
to look at Mr Ks financial positon  to see if he had the capacity to actually take that risk. I can 
see from the fact find that he was self-employed. His yearly income was around £17,500. 
Mr K lived in rented,  local authority accommodation. As Ive already said, the fact find states 
Mr Ks existing  pension  wasnt a significant  proportion of his financial wealth. But Im not 
satisfied that this was a realistic assessment of his position. 
With Mr Ks modest income, and apparent lack of any other savings or investments, I think 
its likely  that his pension  pot would be a significant  part of his financial wealth. In this 
position, Mr K couldnt really afford  for his investment to fall in value, or be lost completely. 
A later section of the fact find asked  if Mr K was intending to invest in an unregulated or 
alternative investment.  The answer  Store First was given. This section went  on to say that 
Mr K saw the purchase of commercial property,  with fixed  returns,  as a more solid 
investment than stocks  and shares. As Mr K had already stated, he had very little 
understanding of investment markets. So its not clear to me how this position  was arrived  at. 
AFFS then issued a financial planning report.  Ive assumed this was provided to Mr K after 
the fact find was completed. The copy Ive seen isnt signed or dated. It said Mr K especially 
liked the control that a SIPP would give by allowing him to take a more active  role in 
choosing what he deemed  were suitable  investments  rather  than the traditional  funds in his 
existing plan. 
The investment strategy section stated Mr K sought advice from AFFS about the intention of 
investing in commercial property, storage pods in particular. It said he hadnt sought  advice 
about the suitability of this investment and had stated he was an experienced investor  who 
understood the additional risks associated  with such an investment. But Mr Ks level of 
experience is directly contradicted by the fact find as outlined above.  
Even after the risks had been explained to Mr K, given his limited  knowledge  of investments, 
Im not satisfied he would  have had a good  enough understanding  of the risks to adequately 
Ref: DRN94076924judge the suitability of the store pods investment. Mr K would have been heavily reliant on 
AFFS. 
In any event, the report then went on to consider the proposed store  pod investment. It said 
AFFS had done  research to familiarise itself with the investment. It listed  some of the risks 
involved. This included investing in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large 
part of Mr Ks pension  assets bringing considerable risk. 
This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Mr Ks fund shouldnt be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But at the time,  the report didnt make  any recommendation of 
alternative investments  that could be used. 
I can see that several months after the transfer to the SIPP and the store pods investment 
took place, AFFS did contact Mr K about another investment. It recommended  that Mr K 
should make  an additional  investment in a Nucleus portfolio. This was for around  £7,250.  
While dealing with this complaint, Im very aware that the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  
Authority, and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority, issued alerts about  advising 
on pension transfers.  These dealt  with transfers  to invest pension  funds into unregulated 
products through a SIPP. One of these was published in early January 2013,  some months 
before the advice  given by AFFS. Another one was issued in April 2014. These alerts didnt 
change or alter the regulations in any way. Instead, they simply re-stated the principles that 
were already  in place  when AFFS advised Mr K. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating.  
Im satisfied it wasnt possible  for AFFS to advise  Mr K on the suitability of the SIPP  without 
also considering  how he planned to invest. Its very clear  to me that AFFS knew all along  
that Mr K intended to invest in store pods. Indeed, the fact find shows that it was AFFS who 
first mentioned store pods. In the additional  notes section, it says:
I showed  Mr K two investments. One was Store First and the other was Dolphin  
Investments. Mr K said he liked Store First better because it was (an) English Company
With this in mind, I dont think it was suitable to advise Mr K to transfer  his existing pension 
into a SIPP  to allow him to make  this investment. 
AFFS says it did set out some risks of investing  in store pods in the suitability report.  These 
were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk.
Ref: DRN94076925The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual sipp 
fees, service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must  consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back guarantee which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
As Ive already  said, the report went on to say I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I dont think this goes  far enough. There  was no warning to Mr K that 
all of his investment was potentially  at risk. Given Mr Ks lack of understanding of investment 
markets, Im not satisfied  he realised  the extent of the risk he was taking  with his existing 
pension. AFFS should have been much  clearer in its warnings to him. 
The store pods investment was unregulated. It was a specialised, non-mainstream  type of 
investment. I think it was also a high risk investment that wasnt suitable for somebody  with 
Mr Ks low capacity  for loss. The available evidence doesnt show me that Mr K was fully 
aware of the risks involved in investing  in store  pods. Im satisfied the investment wasnt 
suitable for him  and thats  what AFFS should  have told him. 
But as well as the investment being  unsuitable,  I also dont think  transferring Mr Ks existing 
pension into the SIPP was suitable. On the fact find, Mr K was asked how happy he was with 
the level of charges on his current pension plan. On a scale of one to five, with one being not 
at all, and five being very, an answer  of two was given. 
But the annual  charge  for the SIPP was 1% (up to a maximum of £500). The annual SIPP 
charges were on top of the initial £1,200 paid to AFFS, the initial  scheme fees of £848.34 
and solicitors fees of £571. I can see that within the first 30 days  of the SIPP  being opened, 
over 12.5% of the balance transferred was spent  on fees.  
Im surprised AFFS didnt directly compare these  charges with those on the Mr Ks existing 
plan. Generally, SIPP charges are higher than personal pension  plan charges,  especially  for 
a modest pension pot like Mr Ks. So it seems very likely that if Mr K was unhappy with his 
plan charges, transferring to the SIPP wouldnt have improved this. It would only increase 
what he needed to pay. 
Im satisfied that given  a realistic assessment of Mr Ks attitude  to risk as balanced, or 
medium, a standard  personal pension would have been suitable for his needs. I think  the 
extra charges normally associated with a SIPP werent justified.  I think  suitable advice 
should have been not to invest in store pods. If that advice had been  given,  I dont see any 
reason at all why Mr K would have transferred his existing pension to the SIPP. There would 
Ref: DRN94076926simply have been  no need for the SIPP. So the advice  to open a SIPP  was unsuitable for 
Mr Ks circumstances. 
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr K into the position  he would likely now be in had he been given suitable 
advice. I think if Mr K had been  given  suitable  advice, he would have kept his previous 
pension. 
AFFS should establish the notional  current transfer value of Mr Ks previous pension plan, 
assuming it hadnt  been transferred. The current transfer value of the SIPP investments, 
including any cash held in the SIPP bank account, should be compared to the current 
notional value of Mr Ks previous pension plan. 
If there are any difficulties getting  the notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private Investor  
Income Total Return Index should be used. Thats a reasonable  proxy  for the kind of return  
that could have been achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.  
If theres a loss, AFFS should  ideally pay an amount into Mr Ks pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.  
Its unlikely that AFFS will be able to pay the compensation  into Mr Ks pension plan. If thats 
the case, it should pay the amount direct to him. But if it had been  possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have  provided a taxable  income  when Mr K takes the benefits.  So the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ks marginal rate of tax in retirement. I 
think hes likely to be a basic rate tax payer in retirement. The reduction should  equal the 
current basic rate of tax. But, as Mr K would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
Since the store pods investment is now illiquid  it cant readily be sold on the open market   
its value should  be treated  as nil. The resultant sum represents the redress due from AFFS 
to Mr K. AFFS  can then arrange to take ownership of the store pods investment. If thats  not 
possible, then Mr K can sign an undertaking that he will pay AFFS any future  disbursements 
he may get from the store pods investment. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the SIPP.  AFFS will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking. 
I think its very likely  Mr K will have to maintain  the SIPP for a period of time as the store 
pods investment cant be sold. This will stop the SIPP  from being  closed. If AFFS is unable 
to buy the store pods investment from the SIPP provider, it should  pay Mr K five years  worth 
of SIPP  fees to compensate him for these costs.  
AFFS should also provide  details of the compensation calculation to Mr K in a clear, simple  
format. 
Finally, simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
Ref: DRN94076927If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr K how much has been  taken 
off. AFFS should give Mr K a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Mr K as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9407692