K820x#14complaint
Mrs Os complaint concerns investment advice provided to her by Newton Smith Ltd. In 
particular, she says it failed to instigate  income payments to her from the recommended  
investments. She seeks a refund of the fees paid for the advice and compensation for the 
loss of income. 
background
Mrs O received advice from Newton Smith in December 2016. She was a novice investor  
whod recently received  an inheritance  and was recommended to invest £100,000 using a 
Collective Investment Account (CIA) and an ISA, with most of the money invested initially  in 
the CIA, to be moved annually to the ISA in a Bed and ISA process. 
In December 1018 Mrs O complained to Newton Smith about  the advice. She raised several  
issues, ranging from disappointment with the investments performance, its risk and various 
administrative concerns  to, as noted, the failure  to provide an income.  
Newton Smith responded to the complaint in full, explaining why it felt the advice had been 
suitable and disputing that it had done  anything wrong procedurally. Mrs O referred  the 
complaint to this service,  but our investigator  reached much the same conclusion as Newton 
Smith. He didnt  feel it had acted incorrectly. 
The investigator noted Mrs Os particular concern with the absence of any income payments. 
But he didnt  think the evidence showed that thered been any confirmed agreement  about 
when an income  would be taken from the investment. So, he didnt think that Newton Smith  
had failed to act on a specific instruction to initiate  an income.  
The investigator felt the evidence  showed  that consideration  had been given to the potential  
for an income to being taken at some  point in the future.  But it appeared to have been  
agreed that it was prudent to avoid taking income  from the outset, to avoid  eroding  the 
invested capital,  and then to take a natural income for the same reasons. Either way, there 
was no indication that an agreement had been reached on when an income would start and 
for how much. So, it couldnt be said that Newton  Smith had failed to act upon any such  
agreement. 
Mrs O didnt accept the investigators  view.  She felt strongly  that Newton Smith had been  
deliberately obstructive and changed  its position  on the issue of income  from the point of 
providing its initial response to her complaint  to its correspondence with the investigator. She 
felt this was unacceptable.   
The investigator noted Mrs Os continued  concerns but wasnt persuaded to change  his 
opinion. So, as no agreement  could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Its clear Mrs O has strong feelings  about  Newton Smiths actions. Shes provided detailed 
submissions to support  her complaint, which Ive read and considered in their entirety.  
However, I trust she wont take the fact that my findings focus  on what  I consider to be the 
Ref: DRN95928032central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my 
decision is not to address  every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them.
Although Mrs O initially raised many issues with Newton  Smith, the focus  of the complaint 
appears to have settled  upon the non-payment of an income from the investments.  But 
before I go on to give my findings on that issue, I think  that, given the many concerns raised, 
I should first say that in general I think  the advice provided to Mrs O was broadly  appropriate  
from a suitability standpoint  the level of risk, amount committed and term. And I also dont 
think its been shown  that Newton Smith  acted incorrectly in respect of the procedures  
followed.
With regard to the income issue, this was addressed at several points in the advice 
documentation  from the illustrations drawn on a whiteboard for Mrs O in one of the 
meetings with Newton  Smith, through the factfind, to the suitability letter.  
For instance, the information  on the whiteboard referred to fixed  amount against natural 
yield, indicating that there was some  discussion of how an income  might  be taken. The 
factfind included a handwritten comment income  required  possibly at a later date. The 
factfind notes said, Highlighted the investment could  provide an income later on either  via 
natural yield or via a fixed amount per month. These notes also recorded that in respect of a 
subsequent meeting Mrs O confirmed no changes from previous  meeting and happy to 
proceed. Inv for capital growth  and future income can be taken if required. And the 
suitability letter included a comment  that Both of these investments will be for capital growth  
however you will have  the ability to access an income in the future .
So, I think its fair to say that, while Ive noted Mrs Os recollections,  the documentary  
evidence strongly  supports consideration having  been given to income being taken at some  
point in the future (and the recommended investments were suitable for providing an income 
when required). But Ive not seen that it was suggested that an income  would be started  on a 
particular date. 
I note what Mrs O has said about  Newton  Smiths apparent change  of position on the 
income point  that its initial  response  to her complaint effectively denied  that income (as 
opposed to capital growth) was ever an objective. So, its later acceptance, made  in further  
submissions, that taking  an income was discussed,  means shes  been lied to. 
While I appreciate her concerns, I dont think that it was Newton Smiths intention to mislead.  
In its initial  response it was responding to an allegation that it acted incorrectly in respect  of 
the income. In defending its position at that point  Newton Smith was fairly strident on the 
income issue, as it felt that it had not been  agreed at the outset that income would start at a 
specific point. And I think that was indeed the case,  as Ive explained above. Newton Smith  
did later accept that there had been  discussion of the potential  to take an income at some 
point, but I think thats different to accepting  that it had failed to carry out a specific 
instruction.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that in providing  advice to Mrs O, Newton Smith  reasonably  
considered her needs and circumstances and correctly administered  the process. In 
particular, I dont think it acted wrongly in respect of the income issue. There  has been  no 
loss, as any money that might have been taken from the investment as income has simply 
remained invested. And as Ive not found  that Newton Smith  did anything  wrong,  Im not of 
the view that the related advice fees should  be refunded.  
Ref: DRN95928033my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9592803