K820x#14complaint
Ms Os complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  his home emergency insurance 
policy with Aviva Insurance  Limited.  Aviva  uses agents to manage claims on its behalf. As 
the claims-handling agents were acting on behalf  of Aviva, whenever  I refer to Aviva  in this 
decision it should be read as including those  agents.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month,  part of which is copied 
below:  
In July 2015, Ms O took out two policies with Aviva,  one for plumbing  and one for home
electricals. Each policy was at an introductory  discounted cost of £1 per month  for a year.
The policies automatically renewed in July 2016 at what Aviva says is the normal  price of the
policies, and then again in July 2017 and July 2018.
Ms O says she wasnt aware until early 2019 (when  she raised this complaint) that the policy
premium had increased from the £1 per month.  She says Aviva has taken advantage of the
direct debit system; she is on a low income  and wants a full refund of what  she has paid
since 2016. Ms O says she didnt receive renewal documents  and would not have continued
with the policies if she had known.
Ms O is also unhappy with the handling of a claim in 2018 when her toilet  became blocked.
Avivas engineer said the blockage was on a shared drain, which  wasnt covered by the
policy. Ms O says that he didnt inspect  the drains properly and she had to pay her own
contractor £120  to unblock the toilet.  While  Avivas  engineer was there  he dealt with
blockages in two sinks and the bath and these were  counted as claims under her policy,
which further increased the premium. She could  have easily resolved these herself  using
chemical unblockers.
Aviva says the £1 per month was an introductory offer and it sent renewal documents to
Ms O each year, a few weeks before each renewal, setting out the price of the policy.  Aviva
did however, agree  to refund the premium  she had paid for the electrical policy for the 2018
-2019 policy year (/.e. £105.84). It was not prepared  to refund any of the premiums  for the
plumbing policy, as Ms O had made claims within that policy  year 2018.
With regard to the claim, Aviva said the contractors  notes  dont  say what he did to alleviate
the smells from the toilet and so it accepts that he should have  done  more to try and
alleviate this. Aviva also says the work required to unblock the sink and bath was authorised
by Ms O. She might  have been  able to resolve  these  herself, but they were  covered by the
policy and the engineer  resolved the issues.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not recommend  that it be upheld as
she thought that Aviva  had provided  Ms O with clear information about the ongoing cost of
the policies and they had not been priced unfairly,  as Ms O was charged the same as other
customers. The offer Aviva had made  was reasonable. The investigator also thought it was
clear that Ms O had agreed to the additional jobs being done as separate claims under the
policy.
Ms O doesnt accept the investigators assessment and says:
 she didnt  receive any renewal documents from Aviva setting out the price.
Ref: DRN96531992 She wasnt aware  of the price increase in 2016.
 She could have done the work the engineer did herself with chemicals.
 She doesnt check her account statements and so didnt see the payments going to
  Aviva  for these policies.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter, it has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is generally up to insurers to decide  what  cover  they wish to provide and the premium that
they want to charge for that cover, based  on the risk that it thinks a customer  presents. It is
also not unusual  or unfair for insurers  to offer a discounted price  to entice new customers
Similarly, individual customers have a choice about  which policy  and which insurer  they wish
to take insurance  with, or not take insurance  at all.
Aviva has provided copies of the promotional literature sent to Ms O when she took out the
policies. The literature  for both policies says,  among  other  things:
 for an introductory price of just £1 a month  ... You can take out Plumbing cover for flats for
£12 in the first year...
The important stuff... The price will increase  at renewal. Next year if you've not made  any 
claims, your premium  will increase to £96 for the year."
Aviva says the price  then increases  each year before getting to the correct  price for the
policy.
The policy documents also set out that the policy price might  change at renewal.
Aviva sent renewal documents in advance  each year. Ms O says she didnt receive these
but I have no reason  to doubt that they were  sent.  I have been provided  with copies of them
for each  year that the policy automatically  renewed. Prominently on the first page of the
renewal pack is the price for the new policy year and the price  for the previous year as
comparison. I am satisfied  that sufficient notice of the premium was given each  year and
therefore that Ms O had the opportunity to consider if she wanted to carry on with the
policies. The evidence is that Ms O has been charged the same as other customers  in the
same situation as her. I do not therefore consider that he has been treated unfairly or
unreasonably or that Aviva has acted incorrectly in renewing the policies each  year.
I note Aviva has agreed to refund the 2018- 2019  premiums for the electrical  policy but I am
not persuaded it needs to do the same for the plumbing policy.
With regard to the claim, Aviva accepts that its engineer should have done more  when  he
attended in late 2018. Ms Os toilet was blocked and while  it might  be connected to a shared
sewer pipe, there is nothing to indicate that the blockage was not within  Ms Os section of
the pipework.  As Aviva has accepted, its engineer doesnt appear  to have investigated if
there was anything he could do to resolve  the issue for Ms O. I also note that Ms Os
contractor was apparently  able to resolve it from her property. If Aviva had dealt with the
claim properly, she would  not have incurred this expense. Given  this, I think  that Aviva
should reimburse the cost Ms O incurred in having  this fixed. I also consider that it should
Ref: DRN96531993pay an additional £50 compensation,  as Ms O should not have needed to get her own
contractor, when she had cover in place for exactly this kind of situation.
Avivas engineer also attended to blockages elsewhere in the property. I cant see that these
have increased  the premium and in any case,  Ms O didnt apparently renew the policy after
these claims. The work was covered  and was carried out under the policy  with her
agreement. I am not persuaded that Aviva acted incorrectly in carrying out this work or that it
has been to Ms Os detriment.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance  Limited  and require it to reimburse
Ms O for the cost of her own plumber  (£120) plus interest at 8% simple per annum from the
date she paid for the work to the date of reimbursement; and pay £50 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience caused to her by its handling of this claim.
responses to my provisional  decision  
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Aviva has confirmed that it accepts my provisional  decision and has nothing further to add. 
Ms O does not accept  my provisional  decision.  She says she is on a low income and would 
never have  agreed  to the premium increases if she had known about them.  Ms O also says 
that she has sight difficulties from time to time and so didnt check her bank statements and 
was not aware  of the premiums being  taken unfairly from her account.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I provisionally decided  that the complaint should  be upheld in part and that Ms O should be 
reimbursed the plumbers costs she incurred and should receive £50 compensation for the 
handling of the claim.  Neither party has provided any further  information  or raised any issue 
with this, so I see no reason to change my finding about this part of the complaint. 
Ms O still says she should be reimbursed all the premiums  paid for both policies  since 2016. 
I set out in my provisional decision why I did not think this was warranted.  I was satisfied that 
Aviva had provided sufficiently clear  information about the cost of the policies in advance of 
each renewal and that Ms O therefore  had the choice as to whether or not to renew the 
policies, and knew what shed be paying  if she chose to renew. I was satisfied that this 
correspondence was sent. Ms O says she didnt always check her accounts  due to sight  
difficulties but Ive no evidence that Aviva was notified of any such difficulty  and so it could 
not have reasonably been expected to do anything more than it did to bring  each renewal 
notice to Ms Os attention.  I am not therefore persuaded that Aviva is required to refund the 
premiums for the policies.   
Ref: DRN96531994final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to reimburse  Ms O for 
the cost of her own plumber (£120) plus interest  at 8% simple per annum from the date she 
paid for the work to the date of reimbursement;  and pay £50 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused to her by its handling  of this claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9653199