K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Clydesdale Bank  Plc (Clydesdale) mis-sold him a packaged bank
account (PBA) in 2011. He paid a monthly  fee for the account and received several potential 
benefits in return. He has told us that Clydesdale didnt tell him about the fee, didnt explain 
what it was for and didnt  offer him a free alternative. He wants Clydesdale to refund him all 
the fees he paid for the account, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Clydesdale had mis-sold the PBA to Mr S and didnt recommend  that it should  give him 
any money back. Mr S didnt agree with adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  
to review his case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website, and Ive used this approach  to 
help me decide  what to do in this case. Ive looked into everything  that Mr S and Clydesdale 
have told us or sent us about  the complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The particular PBA which Clydesdale sold to Mr S was only available  to customers  who 
registered for its private banking service. Clydesdale provided  this service to customers  who 
had a sufficiently  high income and met certain  other criteria.  The private banking service  
provided customers with a relationship manager  (also known as a banking  partner)  and both 
Clydesdale and Mr S have agreed that it was the relationship manager who sold him the 
PBA. Mr S has said a meeting took place between  the (relationship)  manager and myself, 
and although if Im honest I do not recall the discussion, it ultimately led to me taking this 
type of account.
Clydesdale has sent us a copy of a form called a customer  mandate which  appears  to have 
been completed at this meeting, and which Mr S has signed and dated. Clydesdale  has also 
sent us a copy of a letter which the relationship manager sent to Mr S shortly  after the 
meeting. 
The mandate form shows that Clydesdale enrolled Mr S in its private banking service  and 
sold him two accounts, (a Current Account Tracker  and a Savings Account Tracker) at the 
same time. All three products were closely linked,  the fee Clydesdale  charged for them  was 
combined and as Clydesdale sold them to Mr S simultaneously,  for this complaint I am 
treating them as one PBA. 
Mr S has correctly  pointed out to us that although the relationship  managers letter 
mentioned the monthly fee for the PBA, the mandate form didnt. He has argued that this 
shows that Clydesdale didnt make him aware of the monthly fee until  after (he) had signed  
up to the account .
 
Clydesdale hasnt sent us any notes from the meeting and as Mr S has said he doesnt 
remember the details  of the conversation, I cant tell for sure what Clydesdale told him, if 
anything, about how much  the PBA would cost. However, the letter  seems  to have been a 
summary of the discussion  that took place,  it mentions an agreed fee and states the 
Ref: DRN90626852amount very clearly. So it seems very likely  to me that Clydesdale would  have explained the 
fee during the meeting;  I think its unlikely that Clydesdale didnt tell Mr S how much the PBA 
would cost him. 
Amongst other things, the potential benefits of the PBA included  better interest  rates than 
Clydesdales free accounts  on both savings and overdrafts, access  to airport lounges, 
optional travel insurance and commission-free foreign currency exchange. I find it unlikely 
that the relationship manager  didnt mention  at least some  of these during the meeting or 
explain that Mr S would receive them  in return for the monthly  fee. They were such a 
significant part of the account that I doubt the relationship manager  would have failed  to 
highlight them when he sold it to Mr S. The letter also mentioned  some  of them, although  it 
didnt give much detail.  So I accept that Clydesdale  may not have told Mr S everything  about 
the account, but I find it unlikely that it didnt  tell him enough to explain  what the fee was for. 
Mr S has also told us that Clydesdale didnt tell him about alternatives to the PBA,  especially  
about accounts for which he wouldnt  have  had to pay a fee. Again, I cant tell exactly what 
Clydesdale said to Mr S; but at that time fee-free bank accounts were widely available in the 
UK, from both Clydesdale and other banks. On our questionnaire, Mr S told us that before 
Clydesdale sold him the PBA he held neither a free account nor another PBA,  but the 
mandate form shows that when he opened the PBA he transferred in a large amount of 
money from another bank. I dont know if this account was free or had a fee similar to 
Clydesdales PBA, and I fully accept that Mr S may not remember  all the details from the 
time, but it seems unlikely  to me that Clydesdale mis-led him into thinking there was no fee-
free alternative. I think its more likely that Clydesdale  allowed him a choice from its range of 
products in competition with the other bank and he chose to take the PBA. 
Clydesdale has told us that it sold the PBA to Mr S on an information  only basis.  However, 
in recent  correspondence, Mr S has said that he thinks this was wrong.  Hes told us that 
Clydesdale offered (or recommended) it to him personally. Given  the circumstances at the 
time, I fully accept that Mr S believed this to be the case. So Ive decided to look at this 
complaint as an advised sale. This meant  that as well as telling Mr S about the account, 
Clydesdale had to make sure that it was a reasonable option for his circumstances.
Mr S has told us that he didnt need  any of the insurance products  that came  with the PBA 
and did not want  the other  non-banking benefits  such as the airport lounge passes that it 
offered. I accept this may well have been the case.  However, Mr S seems to have had a 
potentially substantial need for some  of the banking services. At times, he had over 
£500,000 on deposit in the PBA and he also arranged an overdraft of over £30,000. 
Mr S has told us that he used the overdraft more as an off-set against other savings  for a 
short term and that it had nothing to do with monthly fee. However, I think its extremely 
unlikely that Mr S would  have been  able to get an overdraft of this size without the PBA.  And 
he may also have gained financially from the better interest rates  on both the overdraft itself 
and his savings.  So I think it was reasonable for Clydesdale to recommend the PBA to Mr S, 
even though he may not have wanted nor needed all the potential  benefits it could have 
provided. 
 
Mr S has also told us that when Clydesdale sold him the PBA he had poor mental health and 
suffered from alcoholism. I am really sorry to hear about this and I hope that he has now 
recovered fully. 
Ref: DRN90626853Its not clear if Clydesdale asked Mr S about  his health when it sold him the account,  or if he 
told it about his illness voluntarily. But as I think that Clydesdale behaved reasonably in 
recommending the PBA to Mr S based  on his financial situation  and Mr S seems  to have 
been able to operate the account effectively, in this particular case I dont think there was 
anything significant  that Clydesdale should have done differently for Mr S even if it had 
known about his health concerns. 
Similarly, Mr S has told us that he hasnt had any significant savings in the account for 
several years, and I accept this may well have been the case.  But this doesnt  mean  that 
Clydesdale was wrong to sell the PBA to him in 2011.
So in summary,  Im satisfied that Clydesdale probably did enough to tell Mr S about the fee 
he had to pay for the PBA and what he could receive in return.  I also believe that Clydesdale 
behaved reasonably in recommending  the account  to him and gave him a choice about it. I 
dont think that Clydesdale  mis-sold the account  to Mr S. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding this complaint against  Clydesdale  
Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give Mr S any money back.  
.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9062685