K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint is that First Central Insurance  Management Limited intended to charge him 
an arrangement fee for administering the renewal of his car insurance policy.  He doesnt 
think it is fair to do so when nothing  was changing  on the policy.
background
In 2017 Mr F took out an insurance  policy through  a comparison website. Information about 
the fees and charges associated with the policy were made available to Mr F at that time.
In 2018 Mr F was sent renewal documents. Included in the overall price of the policy for 
2018/19 was an arrangement fee of £50. Mr F decided not to accept the renewal invitation 
as he wasnt willing to pay the fee. He didnt think there should be a fee as he was not a new 
customer and nothing  on the policy was changing at that time.
Mr F complained to First Central  about the fee it had proposed to charge. It explained that 
there was administration involved in setting up/renewing policies, generating the 
documentation and updating relevant databases. As such, it was reasonable for a fee to be 
charged to cover the cost of these activities.  As such, it didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
The complaint was referred  to this service and considered by one of our adjudicators. She 
agreed with the business and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr F didnt accept  
the adjudicators  findings. He asked that the complaint  be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Fs complaint is that, as he wasnt a new customer and there were no 
changes to his requirements of the policy at renewal,  he shouldnt have been  charged the 
arrangement fee. I am unable to agree with Mr F. Simply put, policies cost brokers money to 
administer both when  they start and when they renew. So it isnt unreasonable that such a 
fee is charged, even when a consumer  isnt a new customer or isnt changing  anything  on 
the policy. As First Central explained,  renewal of a policy requires documentation to be 
produced and sent to the policyholder, relevant external and internal databases being 
updated, processing payments and the cost of the background systems needed for those 
activities. 
I note that Mr F was made  aware of the fees and charges associated with the policy when he 
took it out the previous  year. If he wasnt happy to pay the fee, he had the choice  to arrange 
a policy  through  an alternative source, which he did. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 15 
September 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9735812