K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that they were mis-sold a mortgage and a protection policy by an 
appointed representative of Aviva  Life Services UK Limited.
They would like Aviva  to agree that the mortgage and protection insurance  were mis-sold 
and uphold their complaint.
background
In 2006 Mr and Mrs S took a mortgage  and a protection policy through  an appointed  
representative of Aviva. They say the adviser was incompetent and that his contact with 
them and the information he supplied were  unreliable. They had to point out anomalies in 
paperwork and lies by the adviser.
They say the mortgage wasnt suitable.  It didnt end before their retirement age, which the 
adviser incorrectly recorded as 75. The protection policy ended  when  they were  65 so didnt 
cover the term of the mortgage.
On their complaint  to Aviva it said a term of 15 years was selected and it was confirmed in 
the documents that Mr and Mrs S anticipated retiring at age 75. It said:
When taking the mortgage, it would have been  apparent to you whether you anticipated 
retiring within the next 15 years and that if you did, this would then run until past your 
retirement date. The literature that would  have been sent to you following your meeting 
explained in greater detail the potential risks of a mortgage running past a proposed 
retirement date. Therefore, I feel you were given the literature to enable you to make a 
decision whether  to take the borrowing.
.Following my review of your file I am unable to uphold your complaint in relation to the 
policy you took with [insurer  This is because it offered  benefits  that would help you cover 
your mortgage and other associated costs if you were unable to work for a prolonged period.
.Within the meeting  it was recorded within the fact find that the anticipated retirement age 
for you both was 75. As you were  55 at the time you took your mortgage out, it was due to 
be paid off when  you were 70, assuming  it ran the full 15 year term and was not repaid 
earlier. This would  mean your mortgage was due lo be repaid prior to when you anticipated 
retiring.
When you applied for the additional borrowing at age 55 over a 15 year term, it would have 
been apparent  lo you within the paperwork that the mortgage was due to run until 2021.  It 
would have also been apparent if you had planned  lo retire within 15 years, that the 
mortgage would be due to run until after your preferred retirement  age.
.I have been  unable to conclude the mortgage  was mis-sold to you. Without taking the 
mortgage over the term you did, I do not feel you would  have  been  able to raise the 
appropriate funds  needed to complete your homes extension and improvements.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service.  They said they never ever would have 
said they intended to retire at 75. However  our adjudicator didnt  recommend  their complaint 
be upheld. She said the fact that a mortgage  ran past a borrowers 65th birthday didnt 
Ref: DRN90533752automatically mean that it wasnt suitable.  There could be a number of reasons for deciding  
to do this, cost being the main one.
She said Aviva had considered Mr and Mrs Ss available funds, thought  about  their ages and 
how much  they could afford each month  and also considered additional payments to the 
mortgage to reduce the outstanding capital and potentially reducing the number of years 
they had to pay it. 
Mr and Mrs S werent able to make  additional  payments,  and their circumstances changed  
meaning that Mr S wasnt now able to work, but Aviva couldnt  have  known this was likely at 
the time it gave the advice. The adjudicator didnt believe that the advice was unsuitable 
considering all of the things  which were  discussed at the time.
Turning to the mortgage protection  policy, the adjudicator wasnt persuaded this was a bad 
idea. Mr and Mrs S had used it to support their payments when Mr S became  ill and unable  
to work, so it did provide them with the cover they required.  It no longer does so because  it 
ended at age 65 and Mr S retired, so it couldnt have provided cover in any event. So the 
adjudicator was satisfied that this was a reasonable recommendation  as well.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree. They said Aviva  had made many  errors in the paperwork and told 
untruths. Ages were wrong on the paperwork and Aviva had stated they had said they 
intended to retire at age 75. They would never have said this. Aviva  had referred  to a re-
mortgage but there was no existing mortgage on the property. Aviva had got their 
occupations wrong. It was never pointed out or explained to them that the protection policy 
ended when they were 65. They thought  it was for the life of the mortgage.
The mortgage, life insurance policy and protection policy were all recommended  and sold to 
them as one package, like a 3 piece  suit.   They werent sold as individual  products but as 
one complete package . Part of the package  had already been proven  to be mis-sold.  Which 
left the other two parts.
The Aviva adviser had said he recalled the sale from 16 years previously.  But it wasnt 16 
years previously. He had the date/year wrong  to start with. He stated that Mr and Mrs S 
couldnt afford their current repayment mortgage,  but they didn't have one. Theyd  inherited  
the property.
He said they had run up substantial  debts  and wanted to clear  them in the most inexpensive 
way, but there were  no substantial debts.
He said they asked him to look at interest-only mortgages to reduce the monthly  payments 
and that they wanted to consolidate debts  so they could stay in the property. These were all 
total untruths.  They didnt  ask about interest-only mortgages and there were no issues  about  
staying in the property. 
They didnt tell Aviva  at any time that they would sell the property and downsize before 
retirement. Why would  they extend  then move house?
Aviva had said it had to use a sub-prime  lender because of Mr and Mrs Ss credit history and 
that they had wrongly claimed there was nothing wrong with their credit position and that 
they had in fact been refused credit. This was all totally  untrue.  They  had never ever been 
refused credit at any time.
Ref: DRN90533753Aviva should  have explained  that the protection  policy would end at age 65 and wouldnt run 
for the full term of the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reporting Mr and Mrs Ss complaint to Aviva, the adviser said he remembered the 
case very well. But it doesnt  seem to me that he did, as there  were  significant errors in the 
account he gave,  notably his assertion that Mr and Mrs S were  struggling financially, had run 
up substantial debts,  and couldnt afford their repayment mortgage. He went on to say:
An affordability assessment was fully carried out, and by paying off their existing debts, they 
were able to afford the mortgage,  as their current situation meant  they could not afford both 
their debts and their existing mortgage.
This was patently false because Mr and Mrs S had inherited the property, and the advisers 
recommendation letter dated 15 February 2006  said on page  5 under taking your existing 
loan with you  that Mr and Mrs S didnt have a mortgage on their property. Further  errors  
have been pointed out by Mr and Mrs S to the adjudicator. And indeed  Aviva acknowledged 
in its letter  to Mr and Mrs S of 10 November 2017  that the mortgage wasnt taken as "sub-
prime" borrowing as the adviser had suggested.
However on 15 February 2006  the adviser wrote to Mr and Mrs S:
The attached Mortgage Record of Suitability report is a summary of the key points arising 
from our discussions regarding  your current personal and financial circumstances, which  
have led to my recommendation and your chosen solution.
The report  recorded  anticipated retirement ages  of 75 for Mr and Mrs S, and they didnt 
make any objection to this. I would have expected them to do that if it didnt  represent  what  
theyd said. 
And at the very least they must have understood that the term of the mortgage ran until age 
70. The term of 15 years was stated  in the keyfacts  document dated 7 February  2006  and 
would also have been set out in the mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs S didnt complain at the time 
that this term would take them past retirement.
As the adjudicator said, the fact that a mortgage  runs past the state retirement age doesnt 
automatically mean that it isnt suitable.  Indeed, lenders receive complaints from consumers 
under the Equality Act for refusing to lend past that age. 
The question here I think is whether there  was at the time any reason to suppose that the 
mortgage would become  unaffordable to Mr and Mrs S before the term expired. I havent 
seen any evidence suggesting that it would,  and none is mentioned by Mr and Mrs S.
They werent buying the property as they already owned it outright. The purpose of the loan,  
as recorded in the February 2006  report,  was only to make home improvements. The report  
says it was important  to Mr and Mrs S to know the maximum monthly payments due each  
month in the early  years, and the adviser therefore  recommended a fixed  interest  rate 
product. He recommended five years because they felt they would want  to review their 
Ref: DRN90533754mortgage arrangements after this time. They didnt want to be tied into a deal which was 
longer than this as they might decide to downsize.
As regards  the protection policy, Aviva  wrote to Mr and Mrs S on 17 January 2006 
confirming the details of their discussions  and the recommendations it had made.  In relation 
to the protection policy it said:
The product will pay you a monthly  benefit  if you are unable  to work due to sickness,  
accident or if you lose your job through no fault of your own.
Your [insurer] plan is enough  to cover your existing mortgage and insurance monthly costs 
and is based on the five year fixed rate mortgage  I organised for you, however after the five 
year fixed  term has expired you would need to ensure that the new mortgage repayments 
are covered  by this plan.
[insurer] will contact  you at least 21 days prior to the renewal dateto notify you of the 
renewal terms  and conditions. I explained that I will not be acting for you in respect  of the 
renewal of your policy.
The letter of 17 January 2006  does  record that Mr and Mrs S wanted the unemployment 
cover to continue until the end of the term. I havent  been supplied with a copy of the policy  
so I dont know what the renewal date was. But its apparent from this that there was one. 
The policy wasnt set up to last for the term of the mortgage and this was explained to 
Mr and Mrs S. 
And I wouldnt in principle expect such a policy  to last beyond the state retirement age 
because its a policy to protect against  loss of earnings. Nor has it been  explained  why 
Mr and Mrs S couldnt simply buy another policy if the cover ceased before the end of the 
mortgage term and they were  still earning.
Despite the inaccuracies in the advisers  recollection of the case, Im not persuaded that the 
mortgage and protection  policy were mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9053375