K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that when his application  for a current  account  with TSB Bank plc (TSB) was 
declined an incorrect marker  was put on his credit file which has caused  him problems. He 
wants the marker removed.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 9 November 2018 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
TSB didnt  agree with my provisional decision. In summary it said:
Mr J came off the voters role at the address he gave as his present address from 
2003-2009 and went on the voters  role at the undisclosed address in 2004. So the 
conclusion that he had lived consecutively for 22 years  at his present address was 
incorrect;
the defaults that TSB found were within the last three years and this suggested Mr J 
hadnt lived at the address he provided  for the last 22 years;  
it had been  told by CIFAS that it had met the burden of proof needed to put the 
marker on Mr Js file;
it listed the four steps it said followed in order to correctly record the marker  taken  
from the CIFAS rules   to prove it had met them  all;
it wanted us to ask Mr J to explain the inconsistencies it had found on his electoral 
register information.
I confirmed to TSB that I thought  its refusal  to offer Mr J an account  was fair, but I didnt think 
it had acted reasonably in applying the CIFAS marker. I said that wed asked Mr J to explain 
his absences from the voters role from 2013  onwards and although his answer  wasnt as 
comprehensive as I would  have liked, I was persuaded by his explanation and the 
supporting documentation hed given  us that he answered the questions  TSB had asked as 
honestly as he could. I also shared the evidence Mr J had provided  about his address with 
TSB. I also considered what TSB had said about  Mr Js absence  from the voters  role from 
2004-2009.
TSB then said that the reason it had only asked Mr J about his three  years  address history 
was because he disclosed  one address  which covered all three years so no further 
information was needed. It asked us to clarify Mr Js connection to the undisclosed address. 
TSB also said CIFAS had confirmed it had acted correctly by applying the marker. So I 
asked TSB to provide the evidence that CIFAS had said TSB had acted correctly. But it said 
this had only been a verbal confirmation.
Ref: DRN93478222Mr J provided  the address  confirmation as requested  which was shared with TSB. And he 
said he agreed with the provisional decision and didnt submit  any further information. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And looking  at TSBs further submissions 
Im not persuaded to change the conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision. Ill explain 
why.
In my provisional decision I said that  based  on the information it had discovered  TSB 
acted reasonably in declining  Mr Js application  for an account.  But I said that I didnt think  
the answers hed given  during the application process showed hed been fraudulent or 
dishonest and therefore there  was no justification  to add the marker  to the CIFAS register. 
TSB has said that there were a number  of inconsistencies in the dates Mr J had been 
registered on the voters  role at his main address. And it had found that Mr J had appeared 
on the voters role at an undisclosed address  where adverse data had been recorded. So 
TSB said the information Mr J gave  wasnt accurate  and justified its decision to record the 
CIFAS marker.  Ive carefully considered this information  including  TSBs  evidence that 
Mr J had come off the voters role at his main  address from 2004-2009. Mr J didnt know why 
that was the case  although he did confirm that during  that time he asked for his late mother 
to be removed from the register. But while I agree that discovering this information  would 
affect whether  or not TSB gave Mr J an account, Im not persuaded it was sufficient to justify  
TSB registering the CIFAS marker.  
TSB has confirmed one of the steps  it followed in its actions  was that the evidence  must be 
clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently  report the conduct of the 
subject to the police. The application form Mr J completed asked for his current address. He 
gave his answer  which  based on the information  hes provided which included council tax 
bills and bank statements with the current address on  I think was as accurate as it couldve 
been based on what was asked. I dont  think I can safely say that his answer  would give 
cause to confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
I can appreciate TSBs frustration that it found address information it thought was 
inconsistent when looking at Mr Js account  application. And its right that TSB used that to 
determine the outcome of his application.  But looking specifically at the questions  it asked 
Mr J  and the answers he gave  and the evidence since provided,  I dont think  its fair to say 
hes deliberately  given fraudulent answers.  So I dont think theres sufficient evidence to 
justify Mr J having a marker being put on his credit file. 
my final decision
For the same reasons  that Ive already  given  in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Js 
complaint against  TSB bank plc.
TSB Bank plc should remove the CIFAS marker from Mr Js record and pay him £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Ref: DRN93478223Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93478224Provisional decision  from 9 November 2018
complaint
Mr J complains that when his application  for a current account with TSB Bank plc (TSB) was declined 
an incorrect  marker was put on his credit file which  has caused him problems. He wants  the marker  
removed.
background
In December 2016 Mr J applied online for a current account with TSB. Following  credit and ID checks 
TSB declined  the application. It didnt explain its reasons but Mr J accepted the outcome.
In March 2017  Mr J contacted  TSB as hed become  aware that it had recorded  his account  application 
as fraudulent with the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System  (CIFAS). He said he had provided 
correct information regarding his application  and wanted the marker that had been applied to be 
removed. 
TSB wouldnt remove the marker as it said Mr J hadnt given the correct  address information in his 
application. It said it was right to follow its process and record that as fraud.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and felt it shouldnt be upheld.  Using  the report  Mr J 
had received from CIFAS she was able to confirm  that adverse credit had been found in Mr Js name, 
at another address, which he hadnt disclosed as part of his application. She believed  TSB had acted 
correctly in recording  this with CIFAS and didnt think  she could  ask TSB to remove the marker.
Mr J disagreed. He said that the information  he provided  had been correct  and the outcome that had 
been reached  had breached  his human rights. As no solution could be found the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
In order  to resolve Mr Js complaint I have  to consider two matters. Firstly whether  TSB had sufficient 
evidence to record information  with a fraud prevention  agency  and also whether it acted correctly in 
recording that information.   
CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency that uses information from financial businesses which  it keeps on 
a database so that other businesses can share the information  to help them make informed decisions 
about potential customers. A business should only record information  if it believes it has enough  
information to make a formal complaint to a law enforcement agency. So, Id expect to see sufficient  
checks from TSB to demonstrate  this, and also to see a record  of those  checks.
In this case I can see that when  TSB considered  Mr Js application for an account it found  some 
information relating to a different address to the one Mr J had given as being  his residence for over 22 
years in his application. Further research has established that there was adverse  credit recorded  
against Mr J at the other address. Mr J has been given this information directly from CIFAS.  
TSB said it believed the lack of disclosure  provided  in the application about  the different address  to be 
a fraudulent act and that meant  it had a duty to record the information. From the evidence  Ive seen 
about the application and TSBs processes in such situations, Im satisfied that TSB carried  out a 
robust enough check of Mr Js situation to decline his application for an account. 
Ref: DRN93478225But Ive also gone on to consider whether it was right to record the information  and register a CIFAS  
marker against  Mr J. Ive looked at the application form that Mr J completed  online. I can see 
regarding his residency that Mr J was asked for his current address, his time at that address and his 
previous address. TSB has confirmed those were the questions that Mr J would have seen as he 
completed his application.  So, I have to consider if the information Mr J gave about his residency 
gave TSB sufficient reason to register a CIFAS marker  against him. I think  on balance that it didnt 
and Ill explain why. 
Ive seen the evidence Mr J provided to show he has lived at the address  stated on his application  
since 1995. Hes provided extracts from the electoral roll and other utility  bills. So, Im satisfied that 
was Mr Js address and had been for many  years. When asked for his current address I think  thats 
the one Mr J would have given. Mr J wasnt asked for any other addresses that he might have had 
links with so I cant say he gave fraudulent information or withheld answers that the application  
requested. 
Ive said previously that a business should only register a CIFAS marker if it believes it has enough  
information to make a formal complaint to a law enforcement agency. I think this a quite a high bar 
and Im not satisfied TSB had cause  to register the marker. I dont  think 
Mr J deliberately withheld  information  when  he completed the application form so I dont believe  TSB 
had justification to say that hed acted fraudulently  or had been dishonest. 
Whatever TSB thinks about Mr Js actions, and I believe TSB was right to decline the account  
application, I dont think there isnt sufficient evidence  to say Mr J deliberately gave fraudulent 
information and I dont consider theres enough evidence  to show that TSB should have  taken the 
equivalent steps to making a formal  complaint to a law enforcement agency.    
Mr J wants  TSB to reconsider its decision  and has asked for the marker  to be removed. He said this is 
causing him to have  problems  obtaining credit and also with his present and potential  employers. I 
can understand this must be frustrating for Mr J especially with the wide range  of issues this has 
caused. 
So Ive decided that, based on the information that Mr J was asked for and provided  in his application, 
that TSB should ask CIFAS  to remove the marker from his record.  I also think this matter will have 
caused Mr J some amount of distress and inconvenience for which TSB should pay him £150.  
my provisional  decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, and subject to any further  evidence I receive, I am minded 
to uphold Mr Js complaint  against TSB Bank plc.
I intend  to tell TSB Bank plc to:
-remove the CIFAS marker from Mr Js record.
-pay Mr J £150 for the trouble and upset caused by the marker.
Both parties now have until 23 November 2018 to provide me with any further information they want 
me to consider. I will then make  my final decision.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9347822