K820x#14complaint
Mr G1s representative, his brother Mr G2, complains on his behalf that he was mis-sold a 
Life and Critical Illness Cover  (CIC)  plan by Lloyds Bank PLC.   
Mr G2 says Mr G1 was pressured into taking out the plan and didnt need it. 
 
background
In 2011, Mr G1 was advised  to take out the increased Life and CIC plan, providing  £20,000  
cover, for £51.19  a month for an 18 year term  which coincided with his planned retirement 
age of 65. 
At the time Mr G1 was employed,  single and with no dependents.   
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint. In summary  it said the Life and CIC plan was suitable  for 
Mr G1. 
He was also provided with documentation that made clear the nature and operation  of the 
plan and he was under no obligation to proceed  with the recommendation.  He was given the 
opportunity to cancel  the plan if it wasnt what he wanted. 
Mr G2 disagreed with Lloyds view. In summary, he said:
The plan was mis-sold. 
Lloyds conducted  an unnecessary review  and put undue pressure on Mr G1 to take 
out the policy, effectively after a cold call. 
Mr G1 had no financial dependents, no outstanding mortgage or financial liability and 
didnt need the policy. 
The extent of the premium increases werent  made clear  at the point of sale. 
Lloyds has previously  been fined for mis-selling such  plans, and this is illustrated in 
the undue  pressure it applied to Mr G1. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
He didnt think Mr G1 had a need  for long term life protection. 
Hes asked Lloyds to compare the cost of a Life and CIC plan with the cost of a CIC 
plan only, and pay Mr G1 the difference if what he paid was higher. 
Lloyds disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said that life cover  was included as an 
additional benefit at no extra cost to Mr G1. 
Our adjudicator having considered the additional points said that as the life cover was 
provided for free, no compensation is due and therefore Lloyds is not required to do 
anymore to put the situation right. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ref: DRN96231102Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not satisfied that Mr G1 needed life cover, 
however I dont think the CIC element  of the plan was mis-sold. 
Unlike life cover, CIC is a living benefit,  and is designed to pay out a lump  sum in the event 
of being diagnosed with a critical illness. Although Mr G1 was employed he had no cover in 
the event that he was unable to work through critical illness.  
However, I agree with the adjudicator that life cover wasnt  needed. Mr G1 was single  with 
no dependants so life cover wasnt necessary in the circumstances. However,  I note in this 
instance it was provided  as an additional  benefit, with no additional  cost to Mr G1. 
I note the Financial Report confirmed:
"Based on the Information you have provided. It would appear that you have  no need for life 
cover. You understand that the policy Includes  life cover at no additional cost to yourself  and 
Is shown as part of my recommendation."
And the Protection  Analysis Report under Important Notes  said:
This is because where critical illness benefit is provided life cover  is included at no 
additional cost unless the underwriting decision  affects the life cover.
Im aware Mr G1s policy was accepted at normal rates  and there were no increases to his 
premiums, so he was unlikely to be lose out financially by inclusion of life cover to his plan. 
In the circumstances I dont think Lloyds needs  to do anything  more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9623110