K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about the amount  offered by Chubb  European  Group SE in settlement 
of a claim for permanent  disablement under his personal accident insurance policy.
background
Mr G held a personal accident  insurance  policy underwritten  by Chubb. The policy  would pay 
various types of benefit if Mr G were to suffer an accidental injury. These benefits included  
temporary disablement  which was a regular benefit payable for up to 52 weeks  in the event 
that Mr G was temporarily unable to work  due to his injury. The policy  also offered a lump  
sum payment of up to £20,000  if Mr G were  to suffer permanent  disability,  the actual amount 
being dependent on the severity of that disability.
In December 2015, Mr G unfortunately suffered an accident in which he injured his back.  He 
initially stopped  working. He later attempted a return to work. However, he found he was 
unable to continue  due to his ongoing  back pain and his employer eventually  informed  him 
that his contract  would be terminated in June  2018 due to his ill-health.
Mr G made  a claim to Chubb.  It accepted  the claim under the temporary disablement benefit 
heading and paid him £2,297.
Mr G went back  to Chubb. He said it should  pay him more  to reflect  that he was suffering 
from a permanent disability.
Chubb agreed to seek  further medical information to enable  it to assess Mr Gs claim.
In October  2018, Chubb wrote to Mr G explaining  that while he may be permanently  
prevented from following  his previous occupation, it didnt consider that his injury prevented 
him from following any and every occupation. It further noted  that he was suffering from a 
degenerative back  condition. On this basis, it offered Mr G a further £5,000 (25% of the 
maximum amount payable under the policy)  in settlement of his claim.
Mr G was unhappy at Chubbs offer and its overall  handling of his claim. He referred his 
complaint to us.
   
In February 2019,  our investigator issued a view recommending that the complaint should  be 
upheld. While he considered that Mr G hadnt  shown  he was entitled to the maximum benefit  
payable of £20,000, he also considered that Chubb had failed to provide adequate  
justification for why it considered the 25% settlement to be appropriate. The investigator 
recommended that Chubb should ask Mr Gs treating specialists for advice on the extent to 
which Mr Gs current level of disability was attributable  to the accident and should use this as 
the basis of its settlement  offer.  The investigator further recommended that Chubb should  
pay Mr G £300 compensation for the poor way it had handled his claim.
Both Mr G and Chubb agreed  to the investigators findings.
Chubb sought the views of Mr Gs treating specialists on the extent  to which  his current level 
of disability was attributable  to the accident  but was unable to elicit their opinions. The 
investigator and Mr G therefore agreed to Chubbs suggestion that it should instead  arrange 
for Mr G to undergo an independent medical  examination (IME) with Dr L, a consultant  
orthopaedic surgeon.
Ref: DRN98354612The IME took place  in March 2019. Dr L concluded that Mr Gs accident  aggravated an 
existing back condition  and brought forward by twelve  months  a level of disability  which 
would have occurred  even without the accident.
Based on Dr Ls report, Chubb was satisfied its settlement offer of £5,000 was fair. Our 
investigator agreed. Mr G, however, disagreed. He considered that Dr L hadnt taken full 
account of his treatment  history since the accident  and that his findings were inconsistent  
with the findings of his treating specialists. He pointed out that he was in constant pain since 
the accident and was unable to perform the physical occupation he used to perform. He 
considered he should  be entitled to a benefit payment of £18,000  under the policy.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The investigator recommended  in his view of February 2019  that Chubb  should pay Mr G 
£300 compensation for its poor handling of the claim. This was accepted  by both parties  and 
the money has been paid. I therefore  dont  need  to consider this matter  in this decision.  
Instead, I just need to determine whether it was fair for Chubb  to pay £5,000 in settlement  of 
Mr Gs claim for permanent disability.
The policy states:
If you or any other eligible person (Insured  Person)  suffer Bodily Injury as a direct result of 
an Accident which  within  24 months of the Accident results in Permanent Disability, Facial 
Disfigurement or Death, or requires  treatment within 12 months of Dental Trauma occurring, 
the following  will be paid:
The policy then has a list of disabilities  such as loss  of hearing in both ears  and loss  of use 
of a thumb, along with the corresponding amount which will be paid for that disability. This 
list includes permanent total disablement which in Mr Gs case  has a benefit  level of 
£20,000, and temporary disablement which has a benefit level of £60 per week.
The policy defines  permanent total disablement  as:
 disablement caused other than by loss of limb or Sight  which,  having lasted for at least  
12 months, will in all probability entirely  prevent the Insured  Person from engaging in or 
giving attention to a profession or occupation  of any and every  kind for the remainder of his / 
her life.
The policy defines  temporary disablement as 
 disablement which prevents the Insured Person  from engaging in or giving attention to 
his / her normal, gainful occupation  or which confines the Insured Person to his / her home 
on medical grounds.
Ref: DRN98354613At the top of the policys list of disabilities and associated benefit is permanent disability 
with a benefit level of up to £20,000. Under this heading, the policy  states:
A proportion of this sum will be paid depending upon the degree of permanent  disability in 
accordance with the following scale:
The policy later on states:
Payment for any Permanent Disability not shown in the table on page 11 will be based on a 
medical assessment  of the disability in relation  to the table and not in relation to the Insured  
Persons ability to work.
If the Insured Person  was already disabled before an Accident or already had a condition 
which is gradually deteriorating, the payment will be reduced. The reduced payment will be 
based on a medical  assessment of the difference between:
a)the Permanent Disability  after the Accident; and
b)the extent to which the Permanent Disability is affected by the disability  or condition 
before the Accident. 
The most an Insured  Person can receive  for Permanent Disability resulting from any one 
Accident is the amount specified for Permanent Total  Disablement.
When Mr G first made his claim, Chubb  assessed  it against the heading of temporary 
disablement and calculated that Mr G was entitled to benefit  of £2,297.  Im satisfied this was 
a fair assessment of the benefit to which he was entitled under this heading due to his 
inability at certain times to perform his normal  occupation during the first 24 months  following 
his accident. 
Mr G considered he should also be entitled  to benefit for permanent  disability. Chubb  
therefore agreed to seek further medical information. However, while  Mr G was medically 
unable to continue  in his previous role, which was a manual occupation,  it did not seem from 
the medical evidence that he was medically prevented from performing any occupation 
whatsoever, which was the eligibility requirement under the policy  for Mr G to receive  
permanent total disablement benefit. Im therefore satisfied that it was fair for Chubb  to 
refuse to pay Mr G this benefit which, if Mr Gs accident had been entirely responsible for his 
disability, would have  been £20,000.
Mr G may nonetheless have been eligible for permanent disability benefit. However, the 
amount of this would depend on the degree of his permanent disability compared to those 
listed in the policy.  It should be remembered that this assessment should not be in relation to 
his capacity to work and, given the medical records indicated that Mr G was suffering from a 
degenerative back  condition, it should  also take into account the extent to which his disability 
might be due to factors  other than the accident.
Chubb had difficulty  in getting  information  about the extent to which  Mr Gs disability was 
due to his accident. It offered a settlement of £5,000  which was 25% of the maximum 
permanent disability benefit payable under the policy. However, Mr G objected to this and 
the investigator considered the figure had been chosen arbitrarily.  Both parties therefore 
agreed to the investigators recommendation that an expert  view should be sought  from 
Mr Gs treating physicians. Im satisfied  that this was an appropriate  course of action.
Ref: DRN98354614Unfortunately, these physicians appeared reluctant to express an opinion.  Both parties 
therefore agreed that Mr G should undergo an IME with Dr L. Again, Im satisfied that this 
was an appropriate  course of action.
After reviewing the medical  evidence and examining Mr G, Dr L concluded:
I acknowledge that [Mr G] has undergone radiological imaging of the lumbar spine which  
has identified the presence of degenerative  intervertebral disc disease but no previous  
history of fracture or trauma.  To that end, it is my clinical opinion  that the claimant has 
aggravated this pre-existing  complaint. It is my clinical  opinion that the incident accelerated 
the development of pain that would have occurred irrespective of trauma  by the order of 
twelve months. Although  the incident may have advanced symptom onset, I do not believe it 
has worsened his overall condition  nor altered his prognosis in the long term.
In other  words, Dr L considered that even if he hadnt had the accident, Mr G would have 
suffered the same  level of disability due to a pre-existing condition, albeit he wouldnt have 
done so until twelve months later.
I note that Mr G disputes Dr Ls opinion and considers he hasnt  taken full account of all the 
evidence. However,  Dr L had access to all the relevant information. He is an expert in the 
relevant field. I see no reason to dispute  his opinion. While he has gone  further  in his 
comments than Mr Gs treating specialists, who were reluctant to express views on the 
extent to which the accident contributed to his level of disability, I dont find that he has said 
anything which is inconsistent with the opinions of those specialists.
If Mr G had suffered an accidental injury which, by itself, left him permanently unable to 
perform any occupation  whatsoever, he would have received  £20,000 benefit  under  the 
policy. As it is, he has suffered an accidental  injury which meant  he was unable  to perform 
his own occupation  a year sooner than would  otherwise would have happened.  I appreciate  
this is still a very significant blow to Mr G but nonetheless, in insurance terms, there is a big 
difference between  the two situations.
Mr G says that if it were not for his disability,  he would  have expected  to work in his previous  
occupation for a further eight years. But according  to Dr L, Mr Gs accident,  by itself, simply 
brought forward his disability  by one year. This means the accident has therefore  deprived 
him of only one eighth, or 12.5%, of his anticipated future earnings; the remaining 87.5% is 
accounted for by his degenerative back condition.  Therefore, even if Mr G had been eligible  
for permanent total disability benefit,  I would have expected Chubb to reduce this to 12.5% 
of £20,000, in other words £2,500, to reflect the limited contribution of the accident to his 
disablement. And of course, because Mr G wasnt eligible for permanent  total disability 
benefit, for reasons I have previously  explained, I consider that Chubb could reasonably 
have paid 12.5% of a lower figure than £20,000  to reflect that Mr Gs disability  was not as 
severe as permanent total disablement.
In view of the above, and despite my sympathy  for Mr G, I am satisfied that Chubbs 
settlement of £5,000 is fair. I dont consider that he could reasonably claim he was entitled to 
more than this under  the terms of the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN98354615Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9835461