K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Ltd (Shop Direct), trading as
Littlewoods, processed  an online order on the wrong  terms, and didnt  change  these terms 
when he asked them to.
background
Mr H had a catalogue  account with Shop Direct.
In March 2016, Mr H placed an online order for some goods.  He says he thought he had 
chosen Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) terms, meaning  there  was no minimum repayment 
obligation for that order for a certain  period. However, he actually chose payment terms 
requiring payment  over 20 or 52 weeks. When he received his April statement, this showed  
that a minimum payment  was now due.
Mr H says he realised hed chosen  the wrong terms, and both he and his wife - who had 
authority to deal with Shop Direct on his behalf - contacted Shop Direct to try to change  the 
terms. In the meantime, he made monthly payments, but less than the minimum payments 
due, and arrears started to accrue.
Mr H continued to contact  Shop Direct  by phone  and email, to try to get the terms changed, 
but was unsuccessful.  Eventually, three  items were transferred  to BNPL  terms in
October 2016, which Mr H paid for in full the next day, but others couldnt be changed.
Because arrears  continued to accrue  during this period, as Mr H hadnt paid the full 
minimum payments due under the 20/52 week terms, Shop Direct closed the account,  and 
sold it to a debt collection  firm. The account  was later defaulted.
Mr H complained to Shop  Direct, saying it should have transferred the account to BNPL  
terms as soon as he raised his request.  He says Shop Direct didnt respond properly to this 
request. Shop Direct  upheld  part of Mr Hs complaint,  buying  back some of the debt theyd 
sold to the debt collection firm. However, it said Mr Hs order  wasnt placed on BNPL  terms, 
and full payments  hadnt been received in line with the terms and conditions of his account. 
It had correctly sent a Default Notice  and transferred the account  to debt collectors.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome, and brought his complaint, with his wifes assistance, 
to us. One of our investigators reviewed  the complaint, but agreed with Shop Direct   she 
said there was no evidence the order was placed  on BNPL  terms, and the minimum balance 
due wasnt paid. They did nothing  wrong  by starting  their collection procedures as they did.
Unhappy with this, Mr H asked an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Having reviewed the evidence, I can see merit in both sides  of this dispute.  I think  Mr H 
could have done more to contact Shop Direct  to make sure his March  2016 order transferred  
to BNPL terms   it was his account, and his wish to change these terms. I also think  Shop 
Direct should have  done more to address Mr Hs request when it became clear he wished to 
transfer the terms.
Ref: DRN96720592However, after careful consideration of the merits of both sides of this complaint, I am 
minded to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. I think,  on balance, he did enough to notify Shop Direct 
of his wish to transfer his order to BNPL  terms.  He did this in sufficient time for the transfer to 
take place, and before the account  defaulted.  Ill explain  why below.
But first, I will explain  what  a BNPL order is, when compared to a normal purchase.  A BNPL 
purchase allows a customer  to order a product, and pay nothing  towards  it for a defined 
period. The price of items sold on BNPL terms includes an amount of interest. If the 
customer pays the full amount  before  the BNPL period ends, the interest refunds to the 
account. The alternative is to purchase  goods on either a 20 or 52-week repayment  term,  
which doesnt attract interest, but which starts being  repaid when the next statement is sent. 
This is an important distinction here, as will be clear below, because  the initial  value of a
BNPL order will be higher than an order for the same  goods if purchased  using the 20/52 
week repayment method   as the BNPL items will have interest  attached.
I first want to address  what  happened  on the day Mr H placed this order   18 March 2016.
Shop Direct have  told us that Mr H tried to place an order the previous day for an amount 
that was significantly  in excess of his credit  limit. This was declined.  The next day, Mr H 
placed a smaller order for some of the same items.  At the time,  his credit limit was £1,275, 
and with a small credit  balance he had £1,288  available to spend. 
Mr H placed his revised (smaller) order on 20/52 week  terms on 18 March 2016. The value 
of that order on these terms was £644.78, so well within his credit limit. Mr H tells us that he 
believes he placed this order  on BNPL  terms. However, Shop  Direct confirmed the BNPL 
value of this order  would  have been £1,410.99,  nearly £125.00 greater than his available  
balance. So, had Mr H tried to place this order on BNPL terms, I think its likely  the order  
would also have been declined.
I think, taking into account  the information  above,  its more likely than not Mr H was aware 
that the amended order couldnt be placed  on BNPL terms on 18 March 2016 as the 
available credit limit wasnt enough. The only way to have successfully  placed  that order on 
18 March 2016  was on 20/52  week terms. Ive also seen  a copy of Mr Hs account  internet 
activity for that day, which confirm the order was placed on 20/52  week terms. So, Im 
satisfied Mr H didnt place  this order on BNPL terms, because  he couldnt place the order on 
those terms on that day.
I next need to consider whether Mr H was able to transfer this order to different terms at a 
later date. Ive seen Mr Hs April 2016  statement, dated 2 April 2016,  which  contains details 
of the above order - that its on 20/52 week terms, with a minimum payment due of £86.20.
The statement  also shows that Mr Hs credit limit had increased to £1,775.  Mr H says it was 
seeing this statement that made him aware the order  was not on BNPL terms. However, 
based on the above, I think  its more  likely  Mr H seeing this statement made him realise that 
 because the credit limit had increased - the order could now be placed on BNPL terms. 
There was now enough available  credit to place  the order  on BNPL terms.
Also, Shop Direct have  said its possible  to transfer  orders between payment terms up to
72 days after an order is made.  Here,  Mr H placed  his order  on 18 March  2016, so the 72- 
day transfer period would expire  on 29 May 2016. There  was enough time to make  the 
transfer.
The next issue is when  and how Mr H contacted  Shop  Direct  to request the transfer. Mr H 
has told us he made  a number of calls to Shop  Direct after receiving  the April statement, but 
Ref: DRN96720593either couldnt get through, was on hold for long periods, or that customer advisors  hadnt 
done what they said theyd do. Mr H doesnt  have recordings  of these calls, and the only 
recordings Shop  Direct have provided  to us are dated 3 June and 25 October 2016.  So, it 
hasnt been possible  for me to be clear about what was said in any telephone call before 29 
May 2016. That said, Ive seen  a number of letters Mr H, and his wife, have sent to
Shop Direct, and these reference  attempts  they made to speak to Shop Direct  by phone in 
the period after receiving  the April statement. Their testimony is consistent, and I think  it 
more likely than not these phone calls did take place. Furthermore,  a series of emails  
between 10 and 13 May 2016  so well within the 72-day transfer period  clearly  discuss  
the terms of the 18 March  order. These  mention the items Mr H wants to transfer to BNPL 
terms  the order numbers are included in these emails. So, Im satisfied there was sufficient 
contact made.
The next and final question for me is whether Mr H did enough  to make Shop Direct aware 
that he wanted the transfer to take place.
Shop Direct say his refusal  to speak to them by phone  after 13 May shows that he should 
have done more to engage  with them. Shop Direct  emailed Mr H on 13 May 2016 and ask 
him to call them to discuss his query, but he didnt make any further contact until sending  an 
email on 3 June 2016  asking why the transfer hadnt  taken place. Mr H told us, after trying  to 
resolve the issue by phone  in April/ early May 2016  he would only communicate by email to 
ensure there was a record of communication.
However, whilst  I accept  Mr H could ideally have phoned Shop Direct after the 10-13 May 
exchange, Im satisfied that hed done  enough by that time for the transfer to have taken 
place. Shop Direct ask Mr H, by email on 10 May 2016, which items he wants  to transfer to 
BNPL terms, and he responds later that day listing the nine items that he wants to transfer  
his response is clear he wanted  the terms changed. Shop Direct were  clearly aware of this 
and were engaging with him on this point.  Mr Hs new credit limit was sufficient for the 
transfer, and it wasnt  too late for the transfer to take place. There  was nothing in principle to 
prevent the transfer.
Shop Direct told us the transfer  to BNPL terms couldnt be carried  out because Mr Hs 
account was in arrears  and the timescale  to transfer had also passed by the time he 
requested the transfer. Based on what Ive said above, I dont think  Mr Hs request was out 
of time. I also dont think the arrears on the account were a reason to prevent the order 
being transferred.  Mr H placed a further  order on his account, this time on (undisputed) 
BNPL terms on 13 May 2016. Mr Hs account was already in arrears on this date, but this 
order was successful.
So, based  on what I think is fair and reasonable in these circumstances, Shop Direct could 
and should have transferred Mr Hs order to BNPL terms on 13 May 2016.  I think  Mr H was 
entitled to have a reasonable expectation,  by this time, that Shop Direct  had enough 
information to make the transfer - and that they would  make  the transfer  on that date.
Im aware of further communications between Mr H, his wife and Shop Direct, ending in a 
phone call on 25 October 2016 where  a customer services agent  was able to transfer three 
items to BNPL. However, as I think Shop Direct should have acted differently on 13 May 
2016, I wont comment any further  on what happened after this date.
Ref: DRN96720594Im aware that Mr Hs account has now been  defaulted. Based on my above conclusions, 
this should never have  happened - had Shop  Direct acted in the way that I believe that it 
should have acted, this default  would not exist.
A default on a credit  file can have a serious  negative effect on a consumer.  It will be visible  
on a consumers credit file, and will remain there  for six years after the day it was recorded. 
However, in this case, Im not aware  of any problems that Mr H has suffered as a result of 
the default being entered on his credit file, and so make no further comment in this regard.
However, I think the default needs  removing from Mr Hs credit file. I understand the debt 
collection firm ultimately recorded  the default,  and not Shop Direct.  However,  had Shop 
Direct managed the account in the way I believe it should, the account  wouldnt have  been  
sold to the debt collector. I think Shop  Direct need to take steps to buy back the debt from 
the debt collection  firm, helping return the account to the position  it would  have been  in had 
Shop Direct acted  in the way I believe it should have. I also think  Shop Direct must take 
whatever reasonable steps they can to seek the removal of the default  from Mr Hs credit 
file, returning his credit file to the position it would have been in had the default not been 
recorded.
I can see Mr H and his wife have  spent a lot of time trying to deal with this matter, at a time 
when their child was due. This dispute  has caused a lot of distress  and upset  to them  both at 
a time when  their attention needed to be elsewhere.
Where a complaint  is upheld, as well as financial loss, I can consider if a consumer has 
suffered any upset and inconvenience, and award  compensation for that upset. Here, as this 
is Mr Hs account, I can only consider any upset and inconvenience  suffered by him and not 
any suffered by his wife  although I do recognise  her involvement in the process, and the 
likely effect  it had on her.
So, in deciding what I think  provides a fair reflection of the upset and inconvenience caused  
to Mr H, Ive taken into account the time Mr H had to spend dealing with Shop Direct on this 
matter. And, that this all happened at a time he should have been able to devote his time 
and energy to looking  after his wife and new child. Taken together,  I think  the level of upset 
and inconvenience  is considerable. For these reasons, I think  Shop Direct should pay 
£200.00 compensation to Mr H, which  I think  provides a fair reflection of the inconvenience 
caused.
So, in my provisional decision I said I was minded to ask Shop Direct to do the following:
-recalculate Mr Hs account as if his 18 March 2016 order was placed on BNPL terms
on 13 May 2016 
-on the basis that this order  (and that placed successfully on 13 May  2016) was on 
BNPL terms, with no minimum payments due for a respective defined period, remove  
any late fees and charges that were added  to the account 
-buy back the account from the debt collector  firm the account was sold to in January 
2017, and take all reasonable steps to instigate  the removal of the default that has 
been placed on Mr Hs credit  file in relation to his account
-pay Mr H £200 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr H didnt have any further  comments.
Ref: DRN96720595Shop Direct did respond, making the following points,  summarised  as follows:
-Shop  Direct say theyd have had to discuss the BNPL terms with Mr H for the transfer 
to take effect - they say theyd  have had to take Mr H through the BNPL script before 
any items could be transferred as this is a regulatory  requirement.
-They refer to an email  sent to Mr H in June 2016  asking him to call them to confirm 
which items he wanted to transfer.
-They also refer to a phone call they had with Mrs H, also in June 2016, during which 
she was advised  to speak to customer services.  
-And that Shop Direct have no record of Mr H contacting customer services after 
either of these two communications.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Shop Directs response to them.
Ive looked again at the email Shop Direct sent to Mr H, on 3 June 2016. The key parts of 
this email are as follows:
In order to transfer [to BNPL]details  regarding the terms and conditionsthe 
value of each  item and the new payment terms must be confirmed and agreed upon  
in several steps.
This can be done via email but this process can take several days ,
In order to resolve this query as quickly as possible[contact customer 
services]so they can run through  the BNPL process with you
And finally, If however you wish to continue this process via email, please  can you 
review and respond to the information below.
The email  then lists the items purchased  in March, asking Mr H to confirm these are the 
items to transfer. Mr H responds to confirm this by email a few weeks  later.
The email  appears  clear on two things  - the first is Mr H is asked to call customer services, 
and second that he is given the option  to contact them by email  to progress the BNPL  
transfer. He has a choice. However,  its also clear what is doesnt say  theres no mention 
of the need for Mr H to speak to someone,  to be taken through  the BNPL  script to satisfy  any 
regulatory requirements. 
The fact Mr H is given the option  to progress  the transfer by mail raises  another  question  - 
about the BNPL script. Shop Directs response  to my provisional decision says that a 
conversation was needed so that Mr H could be taken through this script. However,  if email  
was an acceptable  means of communication  which the 3 June 2016 email  clearly confirms 
 then it suggests to me that a transfer was possible  without Mr H having to be taken though  
the BNPL script. Also, the fact three items were transferred to BNPL terms in October 2016, 
from what I can see also without Mr H being taken  through the BNPL script, suggests  items 
could be transferred without the need  for discussion with Mr H. 
Ref: DRN96720596As such,  I dont think the content  of this email supports  the point Shop Direct are trying to 
make  Mr H didnt  need to speak  to customer services to allow the transfer  to take place.
Turning to the phone call with Mrs H, also on 3 June 2016, I have listened to a recording of 
this again, and there is no doubt it was suggested Mrs H call customer  services  to discuss  
the transfer issue. However,  the call is with an agent  from the arrears  department,  who 
confirms she isnt able to assist with Mr Hs BNPL transfer query  she simply says it would 
be a good idea for a call to be made  to customer services.  I understand why the agent said 
this  she works in a different department,  and is likely unaware of how transfers such as 
these take place.
The agent  doesnt tell Mrs H the BNPL transfer can only be made  if Mr H is taken through a 
script, or that Mr H must speak to customer services to have any chance of the terms being 
altered. This is not a criticism of the arrears agent   she is clear she doesnt  really know 
about transferring  payment terms, but the result  is Mrs H wasnt  told in that call there was a 
necessity for Mr H to speak to someone.
Mrs H also makes clear  in that call the problems  shed  experienced trying to speak to people 
in customer services, including  promised call-backs  from managers  that never happen. 
Again, the arrears  agent wasnt in a position to respond in a meaningful way to this point  
but Mrs H did make clear her concerns about contacting customer  services,  and these  
concerns couldnt  be addressed in that call.
So taken together,  I dont  think  these two communications Shop Direct have identified 
support their belief  that Mr H had to speak to customer services in order  to get the items in 
question transferred. Whilst I accept that both contain a reference to Mr H speaking to 
customer services,  neither one says its a necessity that this takes  place. The email gives  a 
choice whether to phone, and Mrs Hs phone call simply suggests calling to try and resolve 
the issue. And, given  that items  were transferred some months later, I think  this shows  that it 
wasnt a necessity. 
Even if it was a necessity  for Mr H to call customer services, for the reasons outlined  by 
Shop Direct in their response to me, its up to them to make this clear  to Mr H  and they 
clearly didnt do this. They  are aware  what his intentions are, as the email exchanges 
previously referred to show, but provide  confusing  information about what  Mr H has to do.
So, it follows  I dont think Shop Direct did enough to make it clear to Mr H that he needed to 
call customer  services to allow the terms of his March 2016 order  to be transferred to BNPL  
terms. And I dont think it was a necessity  for Mr H to have spoken to customer  services 
either. 
So, I havent seen  anything which alters the view set out in my provisional decision,  and for 
the above reasons, and those outlined in my provisional findings, Im not persuaded to 
change my mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint, and I require Shop Direct Finance 
Company Ltd to do the following:
-recalculate Mr Hs account as if his 18 March 2016 order was placed on BNPL terms
on 13 May 2016 
Ref: DRN96720597-on the basis that this order  (and that placed successfully on 13 May  2016) was on 
BNPL terms, with no minimum payments due for a respective defined period, remove  
any late fees and charges that were added  to the account 
-buy back the account from the debt collector  firm the account was sold to in January 
2017, and take all reasonable steps to instigate  the removal of the default that has 
been placed on Mr Hs credit  file in relation to his account
-pay Mr H £200 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9672059