K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that, following a car accident, BISL Limited wont  reimburse him for his costs  
of around £300  for taking a hire car to Europe  while his own car was being  repaired.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. For 
the reasons I set out, I concluded (in summary) that:
-it wasnt properly highlighted to Mr H that the hire car wasnt being provided through 
a claim on his own policy;
-opportunities were  missed to explain this clearly to Mr H and the result  of this was 
additional adverse impact  on him, for which I considered he should receive further  
compensation; and
-even if Mr H had been more informed about his insurers replacement  car options, 
I wasnt persuaded he would have acted  differently and made  a claim on his own 
policy.
I proposed that BISL pay Mr H £200  by way of compensation, in addition to the £150  it had 
already offered.
I invited Mr H and BISL to let me have any further evidence  or arguments they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision.  Mr H accepted my provisional decision, but BISL 
did not.
BISL said in summary:
-during the initial call, Mr H was given the opportunity to make  a claim though the 
insurer of his policy or use ERAC to manage  his claim. Mr H made  an informed 
decision when he confirmed he was happy  to accept the services  of ERAC.
-because Mr Hs planned trip wasnt mentioned during this call, the representative  
was unable to address  this issue. If Mr H had raised it sooner BISL would have 
addressed the issue sooner.
-why is an additional payment of £200  being  awarded if inadequate information 
wouldnt have caused Mr H to act differently?
-a payment of £150 is a fair and reasonable offer to reflect the concerns raised  by 
Mr H.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as I did in my provisional  decision.
Ive listened to the call when Mr H reported  the accident and I have  a different opinion on 
how informed Mr H was at the end of that call. Although  Mr H may have been aware ERAC  
were involved  in his claim  I remain of the view, as I set out in my provisional decision, that 
Ref: DRN92456552Mr H didnt realise this meant  his claim wasnt through  his own policy.  This is because  I dont 
consider that Halifax explained this clearly enough.
I have noted BISLs  comments  about  when Mr H raised the issue of his planned trip and I 
accept it wasnt raised  when Mr H reported the accident. But Im not persuaded Mr H knew 
he needed to raise it at this point. As Ive said, I dont  think  Mr H realised he wasnt  claiming  
through his policy  and he believed his policy would cover him for this trip. I also dont think  it 
would have been at the forefront of Mr Hs mind just after an accident. 
When Mr Hs car wasnt going to be repaired in time for his trip, he called Halifax. During that 
call Halifax  offered Mr H £150 for his costs and inconvenience trying to resolve the matter on 
that day. Mr H explained  why he thought he would be covered by his insurance. But, even 
during this call, Halifax didnt  clarify why his hire car wasnt covered.
Ive noted BISLs  comment that Ive decided Mr H wouldnt have acted differently. But this 
isnt the reason I consider  Mr H should receive further compensation. 
I still think, as I set out in my provisional  decision, that it wasnt properly highlighted to Mr H 
that the hire car wasnt being provided through a claim on his own policy, and opportunities 
were missed  to explain this to Mr H. I therefore  remain of the view that the result of this was 
additional adverse impact  on Mr H, for which I consider he should receive further  
compensation. For the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision, I assess  fair 
compensation for this additional  resultant inconvenience at £200.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that BISL Limited  pay Mr H £200 in addition to the £150 which BISL Limited  
has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Emma English
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92456553copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains that, following a car accident, BISL Limited wont  reimburse him for his costs  
of around £300  for taking a hire car to Europe  while his own car was being  repaired.
background
There are a few parties involved  so Ill summarise this first. Mr H took out his car insurance 
through a broker,  Halifax Car Insurance. Halifax placed it with an insurance underwriter. In 
addition, when Mr H contacted Halifax to report the accident he was referred to a vehicle 
repairer, a solicitor about a potential injury claim and losses  not insured through  his policy, 
and a hire car company.  This complaint is against  BISL Limited because they arrange and 
administer Halifax Car Insurance. However, Mr H knows this company as Halifax Car 
insurance, so Ill refer to it as Halifax throughout this decision.
Because the repairs to his car werent  completed  in time, Mr H needed to drive the hire car 
to Holland. Having checked his motor policy, Mr H believed it would cover the hire car, but 
he nevertheless called Halifax to check.  Although Halifax  told him that his policy  wouldnt 
cover him driving a hire car outside  the UK, Mr H still believed the terms of his policy  did 
cover him. During that call Halifax offered Mr H £150  for his costs  and inconvenience  trying 
to resolve the matter.
Separately to this, Mr H complained to Halifax  because he considered the terms of his policy 
hadnt been honoured. Halifax replied to say that a third-party dealt with the claim,  so this 
meant that the insurance for the hire car was subject to separate terms and conditions 
issued by the hire company. 
In response Mr H said that, to his knowledge, all his dealings had been with Halifax  on 
behalf of his insurer, and although the third-party  insurer offered to handle the claim, he 
hadnt accepted their offer. When he was contacted  by the hire car company, he thought 
they were acting on behalf  of his insurer.
Our investigator concluded that Halifax hadnt  explained  clearly enough that the claim was 
being arranged  outside Mr Hs policy. But she didnt think  Mr H would have been insured to 
drive a hire car outside the UK even if his claim had been dealt with by his insurer. She was 
satisfied that the £150 which Halifax had offered was fair to recognise the distress and 
confusion caused  by poor communication. 
Mr H continues to disagree  because he considers BISL did not adequately  explain that the 
cover offered by the CMC [a hire car company]  was less than that of my own insurance  
policy with them - in that European travel cover was NOT available  through the CMC  [a hire 
car company] whereas  it was in my own (BISL) policy. In my view BISL  failed to offer me the 
same level of cover and totally failed to explain  the reduced cover  by transferring the claim to 
the 3rd party  CMC  [hire car company]. 
In particular, Mr H believes that Clause 1b of his Certificate of Insurance  means he would  
have been insured to drive a replacement  vehicle in Europe. Clause 1b says Any motor  
vehicle supplied to the policyholder under an agreement between the insurer and a repairer 
or hire company while  the vehicle identified  above  by its registration mark is unavailable as a 
direct result of an event covered by the policy.
Ref: DRN92456554my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was Mr H clearly told he wasnt claiming through his own car insurance policy?
When Mr H reported his car accident, he believed he was dealing with Halifax  on behalf of 
his insurer. During the call several subjects were discussed  such as any potential  personal 
injury claims,  the accident details, and the hire car and repairer options.
Much of the time spent on the call related to questions about whether Mr H or his passenger 
had been injured. The hire car and repairer options were  covered, but this was towards the 
end of a lengthy call. And although  reference was made to costs  being claimed from the 
third-party insurer and a credit hire agreement,  Im not persuaded Mr H realised what  this 
meant. I agree with the investigator that the call handler didnt explain clearly that the hire 
car wasnt being provided through  a claim on Mr Hs own policy.
In addition, Halifax sent Mr H an e-mail  after the call which  said We will be looking to pass  
the details of your claim via email notification onto your underwriter, and they may contact  
you to discuss the claim . The e-mail also confirms Mr H had called the Halifax  insurance 
claims line. Taking all of this together, Im not satisfied it was properly highlighted to Mr H he 
wasnt claiming under his own policy.
But I disagree with the investigators opinion that Halifaxs offer of £150 is enough. Halifax 
made that offer for the cost of calls and the inconvenience Mr H experienced when he made  
contact to query if he was covered for his trip. The reason for Mr Hs complaint is that he 
didnt know the hire car company were  doing  anything other  than providing  a hire car as part 
of a claim through his own policy, and because of this he couldnt understand why he wasnt  
covered to drive  it in Europe. I consider opportunities  were  missed by Halifax  to explain this 
clearly to Mr H and the result of this was additional adverse impact  on Mr H, for which  I 
consider he should receive further  compensation. 
If Mr H had understood he wasnt claiming through his own car insurance policy, would he 
have acted differently?
If Mr H had claimed through  his own policy, the first option would have been for the insurers 
recommended repairer to provide a courtesy car. The terms of the courtesy  car are included 
in the motor policy wording as follows: This policy also covers loss or damage to any 
courtesy car the Insurers  recommended repairer  provides to you while any damage  to the 
car is being repaired. The provision of a courtesy  car is subject to availability and the 
recommended repairers terms  and conditions. If the provision of a courtesy car is available, 
the Insurers recommended repairers  will not be obliged to arrange  a replacement vehicle 
any larger than a small hatchback, typically with a 1 litre engine capacity. If you wish to 
upgrade to any other vehicle the cost of the upgrade will be your responsibility.  In addition,  
the terms, conditions  and excesses of your policy remain in force for the courtesy car.
Mr H would have been insured to drive the courtesy car in Europe,  but this arrangement  
would also have been subject to the terms and conditions of the repairer. Halifax  has told me 
its unlikely the repairers terms and conditions  would  have  allowed  the courtesy car to be 
driven in Europe.  
Ref: DRN92456555In addition, the repairer wouldnt  have  been  obliged to provide a courtesy  car any larger than 
a small hatchback, without an upgrade at Mr Hs own cost.  Mr Hs own car was a much 
larger car and therefore I consider he would most likely have chosen to upgrade. 
If a courtesy  car hadnt been available,  the legal protection part of Mr Hs policy  might  have 
provided an emergency vehicle for up to 48 hours, but cover is limited  to within  UK.
Mr H believes  his policy would have covered him to use a hire car for his trip to Europe  if 
hed made  a claim through his policy. I can understand, when Mr H read section 1b of his 
certificate of insurance, why he believed this included cover  for a hire car supplied while his 
car was being repaired. But the hire car wasnt provided as part of an agreement  between 
the insurer and the hire car company, so the terms of Mr Hs policy  didnt apply. 
Mr H disagrees  that he entered into a credit hire agreement. But the central issue  in this 
case is its unlikely any replacement vehicle provided  by his insurer  could have been taken 
to Europe, or would have been a suitable  size, without Mr H having  to incur costs.  In my 
view, Halifax didnt  explain this clearly to Mr H. But, given the overall  circumstances, even if 
Mr H had been more  informed about  his insurers replacement  car options Im not persuaded 
he would  have acted  differently.
In conclusion, therefore, I consider Halifax didnt clearly explain Mr Hs claim wasnt  through  
his own policy and, because of this, he couldnt understand why he wasnt covered to drive 
the hire car in Europe. I have  no doubt  this will have had an adverse impact on Mr H in 
addition to the inconvenience Halifax has already acknowledged. I assess fair compensation 
for this additional resultant inconvenience  at £200.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, but subject to any further submissions I might receive by 
8 November 2019, I propose  to order BISL  Limited to pay Mr H £200 in addition  to the £150 
which BISL has already  paid.
Emma English
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9245655