K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unnecessarily interfered with his current 
account. 
Mr S also complains that Barclays hasnt given  a complete and accurate explanation of what  
happened and hasnt provided  assurances  the issues wont be repeated.  
Background
Mr S applied to complete  a partial account switch in branch in November 2018. During the 
application process Mr S says he told Barclays he wanted to bring over one direct  debit to 
his new account.  
Barclays sent Mr S various letters about  the account  switch process. Hes told us that some  
of the correspondence he received was incomplete  and didnt  contain  a form he needed.  In 
addition, the letter Barclays sent on 12 November 2018 contained a list of three  regular 
payments that would come over to his account.  Mr S also says the number given to call 
didnt work.  Mr S says he spoke with someone  on the phone  and said he would arrange the 
switch of his direct debit  himself. Mr S went on to make his own arrangements  to switch his 
direct debits. 
On 27 November 2018 Barclays wrote to Mr S and told him the account  switch had gone 
through. Mr S says this was contrary to the information set out in Barclays previous letters. 
Mr S visited  a branch  on 1 December 2018 and was shown a list of direct debits that were 
included in the account switch. One of the direct debits included  was dormant. It was 
subsequently found that two direct debits  had been cancelled in error so had to be 
reinstated. 
Mr S complained to Barclays  and asked for an explanation of how the problems  he raised 
had occurred. Barclays responded  on 18 March  2019 and apologised. Barclays said Mr S 
had provided his authority for the account  switch to go ahead during his meeting in branch. 
Barclays agreed that the phone number on its 12 November 2018  letter  wasnt working.  
Barclays said that its advisor had been  left with the understanding that Mr S wanted him to 
arrange the direct debit  switches following  a phone call. Barclays apologised for the error  
and said feedback to the advisor was provided.  
Barclays paid £150 into Mr S account  in recognition of his frustration. 
Mr S didnt accept Barclays offer and responded with further questions about the switch 
process and information  he was given.  As Mr S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response to 
his complaint he referred it to our service  and it was passed to an investigator.  
The investigator thought Barclays should increase  its offer from £150 to £300  to take into 
account the issues Mr S raised. Barclays accepted but Mr S didnt. Mr S reiterated  that he 
wanted a full explanation  of the issues he raised and assurance that his accounts wont be 
interfered with again in the future. As Mr S asked to appeal,  his case has been passed  to me 
to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN98416562My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Please note that I havent  gone into the 
same level of detail as Mr S in setting out the background of this complaint. Mr S has sent us 
very detailed  information  about the circumstances surrounding his complaint. The timeline  
Mr S has given  us is broadly in line with the evidence Barclays  has sent in and Im satisfied 
all parties are aware of what happened. 
I can see Mr S has spent  a lot of time and effort in bringing his complaint. I want to assure 
Mr S that Ive read and considered all of the information and comments  hes provided, as 
well as everything Barclays  has given  us. Im not going to respond to every point Mr S has 
raised and will focus on what I think are the key issues  of the case.  I hope  Mr S wont  take 
that as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature  of our service.   
I note Mr S has repeatedly asked  for a full explanation of how the chaos surrounding his 
account switch  occurred and assurances  that his account wont  be interfered with again in 
the future.  I understand why Mr S wants to know exactly  what  went wrong  and why. But 
were an informal dispute resolution service.  Our remit  is to deal with financial services 
complaints. Where a financial loss has occurred due to an error  by a business  we can direct  
it to compensate its customer.  We can also award  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by a mistake. But I cant force  a business to complete  a better 
investigation or provide a more comprehensive  response to a complaint. 
Businesses are obliged, under the rules,  to respond  to a complaint  within  eight weeks  and 
provide referral rights to our service. Whilst I appreciate  Mr S doesnt feel Barclays response  
to his complaint  is complete, Im satisfied its provided its final response  and given its version 
of what occurred. Barclays  final response also provided referral rights for our service. 
In addition, whilst I understand Mr S wants assurances that Barclays wont  interfere with his 
account again in the future thats not something were able to guarantee. I have  no doubt 
that Barclays has no intention of interfering  with Mr S accounts  or causing any further  
frustration. But we cant guarantee  a business will never make  a mistake again.  If Mr S has 
concerns over Barclays actions in the future he has recourse  to complain and bring  his 
concerns to our service. 
Ive looked at the account switch application and can see that there was confusion as 
Barclays doesnt appear to have acted  in line with Mr S instructions or the information  it 
gave him. I agree  that Barclays  provided  unclear information. 
Mr S says he was told the account  switch wouldnt go through until Barclays  wrote to him. 
But Barclays  says Mr S authorised the account switch when he signed a form in branch. I 
accept Mr S claim that he was told the account switch wouldnt go through  until after hed 
received a follow up letter from Barclays. The information Mr S was given  was wrong and the 
form he signed in branch  was used for authorisation. I agree Barclays  should  have either 
explained the situation correctly or waited for Mr S to provide his authorisation as discussed.  
Mr S says he spoke with Barclays and confirmed he would handle the switch of his direct 
debits personally.  But Barclays says the person Mr S spoke with misunderstood and 
incorrectly thought  he needed to arrange the switch  of direct debits. I know Mr S doesnt feel 
thats a reasonable answer. But Barclays accepts  it made a mistake and has confirmed  
feedback has been passed  to the member  of staff Mr S spoke with. I agree that Barclays  
Ref: DRN98416563provided unclear  and misleading information  to Mr S that let him believe he was arranging  
the direct  debit switch.  
I also agree  with Mr S that the process of completing his account switch  appears to have 
been somewhat  chaotic.  Its clear he was engaged with the process  throughout and visited  a 
branch to check on the process and ask questions.  Mr S says that he never gave authority 
for the account  switch to be processed  and his direct debits brought  over from his other 
account. I dont  think  Mr S provided  his specific authorisation  to go ahead, beyond the form 
he completed in branch.  So I understand why hes upset and why hes complained. 
Our service cant fine or punish a business  for making a mistake  we dont have the 
necessary powers.  As Ive said above, our remit allows us to award  compensation to cover a 
financial loss. We can also tell a business  to compensate  a customer  for the trouble and 
upset its actions have  caused.
I know Mr S wants a more comprehensive  response  from Barclays  but thats not something  I 
can force  it to provide. And Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Barclays has investigated 
Mr S complaint and responded in line with the rules.  Barclays has accepted there  were  real 
issues with Mr S account switch application and agreed to pay a further £150, taking the 
total award to £300. Based on what hes told us, Im satisfied £300  fairly reflects  the impact 
of the way Barclays handled Mr S account switch  application. So Im going  to tell Barclays  to 
pay Mr S a total of £300. I note Mr S comments that he doesnt  want further compensation 
so I leave it to him to decide whether to accept.   
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay Mr S a 
total of £300 (less any compensation already paid).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9841656