K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about charges Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has applied to her 
account. She says shes been struggling  financially and would like £410  of charges 
refunded. 
background
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that it will treat customers suffering genuine 
financial hardship, positively and sympathetically.  And Ms M should contact its Money  
Management team. The accounts terms and conditions outlined  the importance of retaining 
sufficient funds in the account to cover transactions. Ms M could view her account  balance in 
a number of ways. The £410 fees applied were for returned direct debits and standing order  
fees. They were avoidable  by having enough in the account in advance to cover  any 
outgoings. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Ms M held an Easycash account  without  an overdraft facility. The accounts terms 
and conditions said that a returned item fee may be charged when Ms M didnt  have 
enough available money to make  a payment. Theres nothing to suggest  the fees 
were applied  incorrectly or unfairly. 
Bank of Scotland must treat customers positively and sympathetically when theyre  
struggling financially. But here theres nothing to show  Ms M brought  any financial 
hardship to its attention. And theres  nothing in the statements to suggest she 
couldnt maintain  the account.  Its also now said Ms M can contact its money 
management team to discuss the situation. 
Bank of Scotland hasnt acted unfairly applying the charges in line with the account  
terms and conditions  and she isnt asking it to do any more.
Ms M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Bank of Scotland made Ms M aware  of the terms and conditions of the account and they 
warned her of the need to keep enough money  in the account to cover  outgoings.  They also 
said there would be a returned  item fee if there  wasnt enough money to do so.
Here Bank of Scotland  charged £410  over a period of some  years for returned  direct debits 
and standing order fees. Those fees were applied  correctly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
In addition Ms M hadnt at those times told Bank  of Scotland that she was experiencing 
financial hardship and there wasnt anything to suggest this from her use of the account and 
bank statements.
Ref: DRN91841902Bank of Scotland is now aware  of Ms Ms financial  issues  and its referred her to its specialist  
team for help. I think thats fair, positive and sympathetic.
Overall, I dont  think I  can fairly  or reasonably require Bank of Scotland to refund any of the 
£410 fees and charges to Ms M, as shed  like, or do anything more than its already done. 
And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9184190