K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C say they were mis-sold additional  services when taking out a mortgage 
through an appointed  representative of Legal  & General Partnership Services  Limited  
(L&G).
A claims  management company (CMC) brings this complaint on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf.
background
Mr and Mrs C were advised by a mortgage broker  from the firm Carrington Carr  an 
appointed representative of L&G  when taking out a mortgage in 2005.
In April 2016, the CMC complained to L&G on of Mr and Mrs Cs behalf. It said the broker  
had mis-sold them a will-writing package with a third party,  through  which  it had earned 
undisclosed commission. It said the fee for this service had been unfairly inflated, and 
wanted L&G to refund it  along with interest it had attracted having been funded through the 
mortgage. 
The CMC also raised  concerns with the cost of the legal work that Mr and Mrs C had to pay 
when remortgaging. Alongside the solicitors  fees, Mr and Mrs C had paid the broker a legal 
administration fee, which the CMC  said was excessive and unnecessary. It also said the 
broker had required Mr and Mrs C to use a particular firm of solicitors  earning  the broker  
more in commission but costing Mr and Mrs C more overall. It wanted all the legal costs   
which again had been added to the mortgage   to be refunded, along with the interest theyd 
incurred. 
L&G said it had already dealt with a complaint  from Mr and Mrs C about the mortgage advice 
theyd received in 2005  which had included some  issues with the fees they were  charged. 
It had responded  to that back in 2013, so it wasnt willing to revisit the matter. But it looked 
into whether it had been right to pay for the will package through the mortgage   and found 
no evidence to support  that part of the brokers  recommendation.  So it offered to reimburse 
Mr and Mrs C the interest that would  be incurred by the will package fee over the term of the 
mortgage. It also offered  £150 for the inconvenience  caused.  
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept L&Gs offer, so the CMC referred the complaint to us and it was 
reviewed by one of our adjudicators. He thought L&Gs offer was a fair way to settle the 
outstanding issues.  As the CMC didnt accept  that, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Cs complaint last month,  setting out why I 
thought L&G had already  made a fair offer to resolve the matter.
On the will package, I said:
I dont think it was bad advice for the broker to suggest that Mr and Mrs C keep the 
arrangements for their estate under review (or to draw up wills if they werent already 
in place). 
Ref: DRN93935652I understand the CMC accepts the value of having  a will, but thinks  that the broker  
unfairly influenced Mr and Mrs C to use a particular firm to provide it. I note that the 
broker and the will provider had directors  in common. But I dont find it inherently 
wrong that the broker would introduce Mr and Mrs C to a particular company, even if 
they share (some) directors. Theres no evidence of any commission  or other incentive 
that the CMC alleges was paid to secure  this referral.
I cant see that it was a condition of taking out the mortgage, or that Mr and Mrs C 
were led to believe that they had to take out a will with this particular firm. They  had a 
mortgage in place already   so I think its safe to assume that they wouldve expected 
to be able to get a mortgage without having  to get a will. And given the prolonged 
timescale over which a mortgage will take to complete and then for a will to be drawn 
up (and charged for), it seems to me that they wouldve had ample  time and 
opportunity to decline the will package if theyd not wished to proceed with it.
The CMC considers the cost to have been over the market  rate. But as the will 
package itself was provided by a third party, the question as to whether it provided 
value for money  isnt something I can direct  to L&G. Any such  concerns ought  to be 
referred to the provider.
I agree  that there doesnt appear to be much  justification for funding the will package 
by adding the fee to the mortgage balance, particularly in view of a cash surplus  that 
was generated  under  the remortgage.  But L&G has already recognised that might not 
have been suitable and offered to refund  any interest that Mr and Mrs C will incur on 
this fee over the life of the mortgage. So they wont have  lost out financially as a result  
of this element  of the advice. L&G has also offered them £150 compensation, which 
seems reasonable  for any upset or inconvenience  theyve been  caused.
Given this, Im not intending to require L&G to take any further  action in respect  of the 
will package.
And on the legal  costs,  I said:
The CMC notes that some of the costs in respect of the legal work were charged  by 
the broker rather than the solicitor  in the form of a legal administration fee. Mr and 
Mrs C had to pay £293.75 for this, on top of the cost of their solicitors (£229.13).
I dont find anything inherently unreasonable in the legal  administration  fee itself: there 
are a number of administrative procedures that need  not have been carried  out by a 
solicitor. I know  the CMC  questions the value of the work given that a solicitor was 
involved, especially  in view of the fee it recouped.  But while  I appreciate where its 
coming from here, ultimately it was up to the broker to decide what fee it wanted  to 
charge for the services  it provided.
The broker  set out these fees in a Solicitors Form  of Authorisation.  This confirmed Mr 
and Mrs Cs instruction to pay £250  plus VAT to the broker in respect of the legal 
administration service,  on top of the legal costs paid to the solicitor  (£195 plus VAT). 
And Mr and Mrs C signed that form. So I think they were clearly informed about the fee 
and what it was for  and they agreed to pay it. So I dont think  it was unfairly charged 
by the broker. The likely  legal costs were set out clearly in both a key facts  illustration 
and the mortgage offer too.
Ref: DRN93935653The CMC also says that Mr and Mrs C couldve got free legal services  through the 
lender, but theres no evidence to suggest that was the case. So Mr and Mrs C would 
always have needed  to pay for the conveyancing work to be done. It was then a matter 
for them to decide  who to instruct in that regard, and Ive not seen anything to suggest  
they didnt have the freedom to appoint their own solicitors if theyd wished. I also note 
that the mortgage product  recommended to Mr and Mrs C had a help with costs  
incentive, under which  they were given £750 by the lender on completion. That seems 
to have more  than covered the legal  costs they paid.
The legal costs  were  paid with additional mortgage  funds, but thats not uncommon 
and I cant see that Mr and Mrs C wouldve preferred to pay them  upfront. They had 
the option of paying  them off when in receipt  of the £750 incentive proceeds, but it 
wouldve been up to them to arrange  that.
The CMC has also raised concerns that the broker received commission  for 
recommending the firm of solicitors used for the conveyancing work. But while the 
complaints been  with us, L&G has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the 
complaint which  the CMC  has accepted.  So I make  no finding on that matter  here and 
understand that L&G will settle the issue directly with the CMC.
So save  for requiring  L&G to honour  the offers it had made  in respect  of the will package  and 
commission, I said I wasnt intending  to require it to do anything  further.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any further  comments  or evidence 
for me to take into account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having  sent me anything further to take into 
consideration, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So this decision confirms my 
provisional findings, as summarised  above.
my final decision
My final decision is that Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited has made  a fair 
reasonable offer to settle Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  so I require  it to honour that offer,  but 
nothing more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9393565