K821x#15complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited has applied
exclusions to a pet insurance policy  that she took out for her dog.
background
Miss N took out an annual  pet insurance policy with Red Sands which  started on
30 March 2016.  That policy  was renewed the following year,  in March 2017.
In September  2017, Miss N made a claim to cover  treatment her dog had received for lumbo
sacral disease. Red Sands agreed  to cover  this and paid the vets fee (less the policy
excess).
Red Sands  then wrote to Miss N at the end of September 2017 saying that as shed taken
out a non-lifetime  policy it would be applying the following exclusions to that policy with effect
of 30 March 2018 - when  the policy was due to renew:
- cover on all claims with respect to the back,  spine and pelvis.
- cover on all claims with respect to bone  diseases.
Miss N was told that any claim relating to lumbo sacral disease  would be covered for a
period of 365 days from the onset of signs and symptoms  of that condition, subject to the
policys financial limits.
Miss N doesnt think thats fair. She says she would understand if Red Sands  added an
exclusion to not cover anything related to the conditions her dog had, and received  treatment
for. But she doesnt think its reasonable to exclude  all bone diseases and all conditions
relating to the back, spine  and pelvis (whatever the cause) following the diagnosis  of a
condition localised to the lumbar-sacral  junction.
Our investigator didnt  think Red Sands had done  anything wrong so didnt uphold Miss Ns
complaint. Miss N didnt  agree so her complaint was passed to me to look at
everything afresh. 
I issued my provisional decision in July 2019 explaining why I was intending  to partially  
uphold Miss Ns complaint. Red Sands responded accepting my proposed findings. Miss N 
replied saying the policy definition of condition  doesnt  support  Red Sands decision to 
exclude all claims relating to bone diseases  or to the back,  spine and pelvis  thats because 
a condition must have  the same medical  diagnosis to be excluded so she says it isnt fair to 
exclude all such claims unless it has the same medical diagnosis.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it, in part.
The policy says Red Sands can apply an exclusion in respect of any illness  or condition
claimed for. After the policy renewed  in 2017,  Miss N made a claim to cover the costs of her
dogs treatment for lumbo sacral disease.  Red Sands underwriting  criteria from the time
says, when a pet has this condition, a term should  be added to the policy to exclude all
claims relating to the back, spine and pelvis. So, Im satisfied Red Sands acted fairly and
Ref: DRN96300162reasonably by adding that particular exclusion when the policy  was due to renew again;
30 March 2018.
The underwriting criterion doesnt say all claims relating  to bone diseases should  be
excluded for lumbo  sacral  disease. So at the time Red Sands wrote  to Miss N at the end of
September 2017, Im not persuaded its decision  to add that term was fair and reasonable.
But the exclusion relating to bone diseases  wasnt due to be added until the policy renewed
on 30 March 2018. And before then, in January  2018, theres a report in the vet records
which says: radiographs showed signs of djd of the facet joints  of a number of lumbar
vertebrae The reference to djd is degenerative joint disease.  So Im persuaded there 
were clinical  signs of this condition before the policy was due to renew.
The policy says: if your pet first showed  any clinical signs; or had an  injury or an illness;
or was diagnosed  with a condition  prior to the commencement date, we reserve the right
to apply an exclusion to your policy in respect of this clinical sign  illness  or condition.
And the underwriting  criterion  says where  a pet has degenerative joint disease, all claims
relating to bone diseases should  be excluded.  On that basis,  I think  it was fair and
reasonable for Red Sands to have added that exclusion with effect  of 30 March  2018.
However, Im not satisfied  that Red Sands acted fairly by concluding any claims relating to
lumbo sacral  disease would only be covered up to 17 June 2018. The policy says any
condition claimed  for will be covered for a period  of 365 days from the date of occurrence.
Although undefined in the policy,  I think its fair to take the date of occurrence as 
4 July 2017; thats when  Miss Ns dog was first under investigation  or received treatment for 
clinical signs  of lumbo sacral disease.
Theres an entry in the vets notes from that date reflecting Miss Ns dog was struggling with
movement more now  and was stiff over hips and elbows. He was prescribed a particular
painkiller which is commonly used to manage  pain caused by arthritis in dogs. Although  
Miss Ns dog had been prescribed this for a number  of years  probably to manage  his
longstanding condition  of hip dysplasia - on this occasion he was also prescribed medication
which can be used to treat arthritis  and joint pain. This entry is dated less than two months
before Miss Ns dog was sedated to investigate the reasons  for his decreasing mobility (and
when lumbo sacral disease was formally  diagnosed). And in between,  Miss N had been
advised on 18 July 2018 that her dog should undergo x-rays under sedation.
I understand that Miss N did renew  her pet insurance policy with Red Sands  on 
30 March 2018  (although  she didnt  renew the policy in March 2019). So I direct  Red Sands 
to retrospectively  amend  the policy terms to cover  any claims relating to lumbo  sacral  
disease up to 3 July 2018 and, if there were any, retrospectively process any claims in line 
with the applicable policy terms up to this date. 
When making my findings,  Ive taken on board Miss Ns comments about  the policy definition 
of condition  but I dont think that definition prevents Red Sands from applying certain 
exclusions to her policy. The policy terms do permit  Red Sands to apply certain exclusions 
and the underwriting criteria set out the exclusions which should be applied  for specified 
medical conditions.  
Ref: DRN96300163my final decision
I partially uphold  Miss Ns complaint and direct Red Sands Insurance  Company (Europe) 
Limited to do what Ive set out above. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Miss N to accept  or reject  my decision before 5 October 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9630016