K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is holding  him liable under a personal  guarantee  he 
gave for the liabilities of a limited company of which he used to be a director. Hes 
represented in his complaint by a solicitor.   
background
In 2012, Mr B was a director  of G, a limited company, which  is now in liquidation. In 
November 2012,  Mr B signed a guarantee for £100,000 of Gs liabilities to Lloyds. The 
guarantee was backed by a legal charge  on a property owned by Mr B as sole trader   
which happened to be the property from which G operated.  G paid Mr B rent for the property.  
Mr B sold his shares in G in May 2013,  but remained a director.  He told Lloyds by email  on 
16 January 2014  that he was retiring from G at the end of that month. In March 2014,  Lloyds 
refinanced Gs overdraft of £100,000 onto a loan payable  over 12 months. It agreed further 
overdraft borrowing in September 2014. On 7 April 2015, Lloyds issued a formal  demand to 
Mr B under the guarantee which, at the time,  included the additional  overdraft debt which 
had been accrued following the earlier overdraft being refinanced  to a loan. G entered 
liquidation shortly  afterwards. 
Mr B settled the debt with Lloyds in March 2018  and the bank removed the charge it had 
held over the property.  But Mr B maintains  he wasnt liable for the debt and complained to 
Lloyds. He said the notice hed given  of his retirement in January 2014 was sufficient to give 
notice that hed no longer be responsible for the liabilities of G or any new liabilities taken on 
by it. He was entitled  to give this notice under sections 6 and 7 of the guarantee. And the 
guarantee hed given  had been for Gs overdraft, which  was refinanced  into a loan after his 
retirement, meaning any liability hed had was cleared when the overdrawn balance was 
repaid by the new loan.
But the bank didnt agree  that the email Mr B had sent notifying  it of his retirement amounted 
to notice that he wanted to be released from the guarantee  under clause 6. It said the 
guarantee was all monies and not specific to the overdraft. So he remained liable as the 
guarantee remained in place for up to £100,000. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it 
agreed not to hold Mr B liable for any overdraft facilities agreed with the company after the 
original overdraft was refinanced  in March 2014.  
Mr B was unhappy with the banks response. He referred his complaint to us and one of our 
adjudicators looked into it. The adjudicator broke down the complaint into two issues  
whether Mr Bs email  of January 2014 was sufficient  to terminate  the guarantee, and the 
variation in the terms of lending. He said he didnt think Mr B had given correct  notice to 
terminate the guarantee, and that the change in the nature of the credit facility had no effect  
on Mr Bs liability  under  it.  
Lloyds accepted the adjudicators opinion, but Mr B, through  his solicitor, rejected it. They 
said (in summary):  
Mr B retired from the company on 31 January 2014. G entered  into the loan without 
Mr Bs knowledge on March 2014. They asked  for confirmation  that the bank had, by 
then, taken steps to alter their mandate. 
Ref: DRN90159862Mr B felt our adjudicators approach to the notice  required under the guarantee was 
unreasonably technical and didnt take into account the clearly intended implication 
that Mr B wasnt prepared to guarantee further  liabilities of the company.
Mr B says there  is clear case law which shows that where  the financial arrangements 
between a debtor and creditor  alter fundamentally without the guarantors  knowledge  
and consent, the guarantee is effectively  discharged. 
In response to these  points, Lloyds has said:
It is unable to find a copy of the original signing mandate or loan agreement for G. 
But it can see from its records that when  a new director was added  on 16 May 2013 
the mandate was either to sign. So either  Mr B or the new director could enter into 
agreements with Lloyds  without  requiring the involvement of the other.  And either 
one of them could  sign the loan agreement. 
It believes the notice  of retirement  given by Mr B was not a termination  of his 
guarantee. It said A partys retirement,  or declaration  of it, does not entitle that party 
to walk away from their liabilities. 
If it had accepted that Mr B wanted  to terminate his guarantee at that point, it would 
have issued a formal demand for the £100,000  outstanding at that time. And Mr B 
would have had to pay the debt immediately to discharge the guarantee. As the bank 
didnt take the notice  of retirement  as termination of the guarantee, G reduced the 
borrowing through the loan repayments   and Mr Bs liability significantly.
The loan wasnt fundamentally different from the overdraft   it all related to company 
borrowing. It said Mr B was aware  of the extent of the company  borrowing regardless 
of whether it was on an overdraft  or loan, and hed given  a guarantee to cover such  
debts. 
As there was no agreement, Mr Bs complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There are two areas I need to consider in this case: 
whether Mr Bs email  of 16 January 2014  was sufficient to give the bank notice for 
him not to be labile for any additional facilities agreed or liabilities, and 
whether the refinance of the overdraft onto a loan meant that Mr Bs guarantee was 
discharged. 
Ill discuss each individually. 
Mr Bs notice of retirement
As we know,  Mr B says the email he sent to the bank  on 16 January 2014 was intended to 
represent notice  under sections 6 and 7 of the guarantee so that he wouldnt be liable for 
any additional facilities agreed or liabilities of G after that date.  These sections say that the 
guarantor may serve  notice on the bank so that they wouldnt be liable for any new liabilities 
Ref: DRN90159863incurred by the company after the notice was received. The guarantee document  is clear 
about what this notice should  say and how it should  be served. 6.3 says:
In order to be valid:
(a)A notice  must actually  be received by the Bank at its address on the first page of 
this Guarantee or at any other address  which the Bank may notify to me/us (the 
Main Office)...
(b)The notice must  be contained in an envelope  addressed to the Main  Office...Any 
such notice must  not contain any other  documentation other that the relevant 
notice...
Ive looked at the email Mr B sent the bank  informing it of his retirement. It doesnt meet  the 
requirements of the clauses above.  
Mr Bs solicitor  has said our adjudicators approach to this notice was unreasonably 
technical and didnt  take into account  the clearly  intended implication that Mr B wasnt  
prepared to guarantee further liabilities of the company.  But I see no indication in his email 
that he wished  to be released  from the guarantee. Rather it seems to me to be simply a 
notice of retirement which, I suspect, was sent to lots of his business contact and customers. 
I say this because  it contains  thanks to all his customers, suppliers and contacts within  the 
industry as well as his family members. It rounds off by saying Thank you to you all....  
I dont think the bank should  have  realised his email was an attempt to limit his liability for 
Gs debts such that it, perhaps, should have  reminded him of the requirements of clause 6 or 
recommended he seek  legal advice in the way the original  agreement instructed.
Overall I dont think I can reasonably say that the email put the bank on notice that Mr B 
wished to be released from the guarantee or that it provided the required notice to do so.
 
Refinance of the overdraft to a loan
Mr B says the guarantee he gave was for G overdraft, so when the borrowing was 
refinanced to a loan,  his liability ended.  But I dont  agree.
In the guarantee document, dated 26 November  2012, Mr B guaranteed  the liabilities of the 
customer, G, up to £100,000. Section 1.1 of the guarantee defines  customers liabilities as 
...all money and liabilities of whatever nature now or at any time in the future due, owing or 
incurred from or by the Customer  to the Bank anywhere and in any way whether alone or 
jointly with anyone else.... The bank agreed  an overdraft facility for G amounting  to 
£100,000 on 3 January 2013.
 
On 3 January  2014, prior to Mr Bs notice of retirement, the overdraft was renewed  for three  
months, on the basis that it would be moved  to a loan on 31 March 2014.  That loan was to 
be for the same amount  - £100,000  and repaid over 12 months. 
I dont think Mr Bs position was unduly affected  by the refinance  of the overdraft on to the 
loan, and hed been aware  that the refinance  was taking  place.  Furthermore, the guarantee 
is clear that the nature  of the debt doesnt make a difference  - Mr B had agreed to guarantee 
£100,000 of Gs liabilities of whatever nature.  
When Mr B emailed  the bank on 16 January 2014 telling them about his retirement, Gs 
liability to the bank was approximately £100,000. If the bank had accepted Mr B intended to 
Ref: DRN90159864limit his liability at that point, it would have been entitled to pursue Mr B for that amount. So 
Mr Bs position was not materially  altered  from when  he wanted to give notice, to when  the 
loan was agreed. And hed have  been  aware of the intention to move the overdraft to a loan 
from as at least as early as 3 January  2014. Furthermore, as the bank has pointed  out, his 
liability was reduced  as a result  of repayments to the loan. This reduction might  not have 
happened if the debt had remained on overdraft,  as such borrowing doesnt usually include a 
contractual monthly repayment amount.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about  Lloyds  Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9015986