K821x#15complaint
Mrs P has complained that Mobile  Money Limited (MML) was irresponsible  to have agreed 
credit for her.
background
MML provided Mrs P with a loan of £840  in November  2018. The total repayable including  
interest and charges came to £2,383, to be repaid over 18 months  at £132 a month (all 
figures rounded). 
This was a log book  loan, in other  words  it was granted  on the basis that Mrs P provided 
MML with a bill of sale for her car. This meant  that if Mrs P didnt make her loan repayments  
MML could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. In this case  I 
understand Mrs P didnt  actually own a car  the loan was secured on her partners car.
Mrs P said that MML didnt carry out proper checks when making its lending decision. She 
said that, had it done  so, it would not have agreed  credit for her as she couldnt afford to 
repay it. Mrs P said that she was not working at the time and her income  consisted  solely  of 
state benefits. She also said that she didnt have  a bank account or a debit or credit card but 
relied on the use of her partners facilities and his mobile phone.  
Mrs P also complained that MML didnt treat her fairly when she missed payments on her 
loan  she says that the person she spoke to about  her financial difficulty had a threatening 
demeanour and threatened to repossess the car if she didnt meet her repayments. Mrs P 
also says MML overcharged  her when she repaid the loan early, which she did by borrowing 
from elsewhere.
MML does not agree  that it was irresponsible  and says that it carried  out an in-depth 
interview with Mrs P before agreeing to lend to her. It says it asked her about  her income 
and expenditure  and evidence of the former. MML also says that Mrs P didnt object to the 
use of her partners bank account and, while its customer service  fell below its expected  
standards on one occasion , its representative did not threaten repossession.  MML 
apologised for its customer service but didnt uphold the other  aspects of Mrs Ps complaint.  
Mrs P wasnt  happy with this response  and so brought  her complaint to this Service.
The last communication  on the complaint from this Service was a provisional  decision in 
December 2020  by one of our ombudsmen in which she upheld Mrs Ps complaint in part. 
She found that MML had been irresponsible to lend to Mrs P but that it didnt act unfairly in 
any other regard. Both Mrs P and MML responded to the ombudsmans  provisional decision. 
Mrs P accepted the provisional findings,  MML didnt say whether or not it accepted them  but 
confirmed it had nothing  further to add. 
The ombudsman who issued the provision decision is now unavailable to review the 
complaint and issue her final decision on the matter. Under these circumstances  the 
decision has to pass to another ombudsman, and so the complaint has come  to me to 
review and resolve
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN90848692complaints about  this type of lending   including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that approach here. 
Having considered everything  I am upholding Mrs Ps complaint in part for broadly the same 
reasons as it was provisionally upheld in part. I appreciate that will be disappointing for MML 
and I will explain  how Ive come to this conclusion. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Mrs P took out her loan. The 
relevant rules and guidance at the time as set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) said that MML needed  to check that Mrs P could afford to meet her repayments as 
they fell due over the lifetime of the agreement, while meeting her other commitments and 
without her having to borrow  further or experience significant adverse consequences.  
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed  or how such  a check  
was to be carried out in practice.  The FCA said that the level of detail would depend on the 
type of product, the amount of credit  being considered, the associated  cost and risk to the 
borrower relative to the borrowers  financial situation, amongst other  factors. In other words 
the checks needed to be proportionate and borrower-focused. This suggests that the same 
checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same consumer 
in all circumstances. The checks were to assess the risk to the consumer of not meeting the 
repayments in a sustainable manner,  not the risk to the lender of recouping  its money.
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying carry out more  detailed checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater  and the customer is required to make payments for an extended  
period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Ps case, I have considered  the 
following questions:
did MML complete  reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing  
Mrs Ps loan application  to satisfy  itself that she would be able to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
if not, what would  reasonable  and proportionate  checks have shown?
overall,  did MML make a fair lending  decision? 
did MML act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As mentioned above, when Mrs P applied for a loan, MML says it asked her about her 
income and expenses and verified  her income.  It has provided a copy  of the income and 
expenditure figures Mrs P declared  on a call. The income was based on child tax credits  and 
MML provided a copy of part of a letter setting  out the figures,  which vary. MML took the 
lowest weekly figure listed to estimate  a monthly  income of £1,194 and Mrs Ps total 
declared expenditure amounted to £784.  It would seem, on the face of it, even building in a 
Ref: DRN90848693contingency amount,  that Mrs P had enough money left over each month to meet the loan 
repayments of £132.  
However, MML needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that Mrs P could meet her 
repayments without  experiencing significant  impacts on her financial situation. So I think  it 
needed to not only look at the pounds and pence  of the matter but also take into account 
what it knew about Mrs Ps financial circumstances. MML knew that Mrs P didnt have her 
own bank account  and therefore would  not be in a position of control over the loan 
repayments for which she was solely responsible. She also had limited control over her 
income as it was paid into her partners sole account. And, I think  its fair to say in this case,  
she potentially had little control over the loan capital as it was also paid to her partners  
account. It may be that Mrs P had the benefit  of these  loan funds. However, under these 
circumstances where  she had no discernible control  over how and when the repayments 
would be made, I dont think it was fair of MML to enter  into a financial agreement  with her.
At the least, it would  have been  reasonable and proportionate for MML to have looked into 
Mrs Ps finances in more  detail, which would necessitate gathering  an understanding  of her 
partners finances,  at least how he operated his bank account. Mrs P provided copies of 
bank statements1 for her partners account and told this Service  that he had a serious  online 
gambling addiction.  Its clear from these bank  statements that his pattern of spending and 
the way he managed his money  meant that there  was a risk that there  wouldnt be enough 
money available in his account to meet these loan repayments as they fell due along  with 
everything else.
To be clear, Im not suggesting  that MML should  have asked Mrs P for her partners bank 
statements but this is information I have which I think is a reasonable proxy for what  MML 
was likely to have found out, had it acted appropriately. However, as Ive explained, I dont  
think looking  into Mrs Ps circumstances in more detail would have provided any 
reassurance to MML about the sustainability  of this loan for her, and it would likely have 
declined to lend to her. So I find it was irresponsible to have agreed to lend on this occasion.   
Mrs P has also complained that MML didnt treat her fairly when she had difficulty managing 
her repayments in that it charged her more than she expected when she wanted to repay  the 
loan early, and it threatened to repossess her partners car when she was late with a 
payment. MML says that it didnt do anything wrong  when  it charged Mrs P two months 
interest on early repayment. I can see from the statement of account that Mrs P didnt pay 
more than she would have done had the agreement run to term and, altogether, I cant say 
that MML didnt  treat her fairly in this regard. 
MML has provided a call recording  with Mrs Ps partner in which  there is a discussion about  
a late payment. I have  listened to this call and while I think  it can be fairly described as a 
fractious exchange, MMLs representative  doesnt  actually go so far as to say that the car 
would be repossessed if Mrs P didnt  make the full repayment. I think an apology  was an 
appropriate response in the circumstances of this case.
Mrs P said that repaying this loan to MML caused her upset and anguish to the extent that 
she began  to self-harm. I dont doubt  that Mrs P has had a very difficult  time regarding her 
finances and her health, and Im sorry to hear it has been so hard for her. I appreciate this 
will be disappointing  for Mrs P but I am not going  to ask MML to pay her compensation 
1 Mrs Ps partner agreed to the sharing of his bank statements. He had previously  shared  these 
documents with this Service and disclosed that he gambled heavily.   
Ref: DRN90848694beyond the refund of interest  and charges set out below. I cant  hold MML solely  responsible 
for the stress  she says she was under because of her financial circumstances but I can 
direct it to put her back into the position she would  have been in, had it not agreed  to lend to 
her.
what MML  needs  to do to put things right
Ive found that MML was irresponsible to have agreed credit for Mrs P in November 2018. I 
understand that the loan has now been  repaid. In order  to put things right for her MML needs  
to:
a)Refund to Mrs P all interest  and charges she paid for the loan;
b)Add 8% simple interest per annum to these  amounts from the date they were paid to 
the date of refund; and
c)Remove any adverse  information about this loan from Mrs Ps credit file; and 
d)Revoke the Bill of Sale for Mrs Ps partners car if this is still in place and return any 
relevant documents to her if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires MML to deduct  tax from this interest. It should give Mrs P a certificate showing 
how much  tax it has deducted,  if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding Mrs Ps complaint about Mobile Money  Limited in part 
and direct it to put things  right for her as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2021.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9084869