K820x#14complaint
Mrs J has complained that ReAssure Limited unfairly changed the level of cover  provided by 
her Secure Life Plan. 
background
Mrs J took out a Secure  Life Plan on 7 October 2003. The plan was originally sold and 
administered by another company that was later taken over by ReAssure. For simplicity, 
Ill refer to ReAssure  throughout,  even where the actions were those of the other company.  
The plan offered a choice  of six levels of cover, with each providing a lump  sum benefit in 
the event the plan holder  died before  the end date. The plan also guaranteed to return  all the 
premiums paid at the end date if no claim was made. 
In November 2003 Mrs J upgraded her level of cover. The Schedule of Benefits was 
reissued showing  the increased sum assured and premium. But the end date hadnt been 
updated. It showed the plan would end on 7 October 2025 and Mrs J would receive  £8,682 
on this date if she hadnt made a claim.  
ReAssure recently got in touch with Mrs J to tell her the Schedule of Benefits showed  the 
wrong end date. It explained  the plan shouldve continued until 7 October 2032, when the 
premiums paid wouldve  equalled her chosen  sum assured. 
ReAssure said Mrs J could now choose  whether  to keep the end date, but reduce her sum 
assured to £6,573.80, or maintain her sum assured but extend the plan term until 
7 October 2032. It also sent her a cheque for £250 to apologise for the mistake.
Mrs J wasnt happy with ReAssures offer and asked it to honour  its agreement to pay 
£8,682 in 2025. ReAssure  explained it couldnt agree with Mrs Js request as it would mean  
it would  have to pay out more than it had received in premiums. 
Mrs J remained  unhappy so referred  her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He acknowledged  ReAssure 
had made  a mistake  in the Schedule of Benefits. But he didnt agree itd be fair to ask it to 
pay £8,682 in 2025, as this would exceed  what Mrs J wouldve paid in premiums by that 
date. He said this wasnt in line with what the plan was designed to do. He explained hed 
only expect ReAssure to put Mrs J back in the position she wouldve been  in had the mistake 
not happened. In the circumstances  he thought ReAssures offer to allow Mrs J to keep the 
stated end date but reduce the sum assured, or keep  the sum assured  and increase  the plan 
term was reasonable  in the circumstances. He also thought ReAssures offer of £250 
compensation was fair. 
Mrs J didnt agree and asked for a final decision on the matter. She also asked ReAssure to 
allow her to end the plan now and return all of her premiums as an act of goodwill.  ReAssure  
explained it wouldnt do this and explained  if Mrs J cancelled her plan now shed receive 
nothing back.  
 
Ref: DRN94127182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint for much the same reason as the investigator.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs J so Id like to explain how Ive reached  this decision.
Ive looked carefully  at the terms and conditions,  alongside  the Schedule of Benefits, and 
Im satisfied ReAssure made  a mistake when it said the plan would end on 7 October  2025,  
instead of 7 October 2032. I say this because the terms and conditions make it clear  that 
premiums will be returned only once the amount paid equalled the sum assured. 
The terms and conditions  include a table  of benefits. This shows  that for a woman  of Mrs Js 
age shed pay a monthly premium of £24.95 for £8,682 worth of cover   this matches what is 
shown in Mrs Js Schedule of Benefits. So it would take 29 years of paying  premiums before 
the amount paid equalled the sum assured. So I accept the plan end date shouldve  been 
7 October 2032. 
Given the clear statements throughout the terms and conditions  on what the plan was 
designed to do, I cant  reasonably say ReAssure was intending  to offer Mrs J more 
preferable terms than the plan allowed for. Theres nothing to suggest  plan holders could 
make a profit from the plan if no claim was made.  And I dont think it would be fair for me to 
consider the Schedule of Benefits in isolation  and suggest this is what ReAssure had 
offered. So I think its fair to treat the end date as a mistake. 
I know Mrs J thinks  ReAssure should pay her the full amount quoted  in the Schedule  of 
Benefits on 7 October 2025, but I dont agree. While its clear ReAssure made a mistake,  
I dont agree this means it has to honour the mistake.  Instead  I consider it should put Mrs J, 
as far as possible,  back in the position she wouldve been in had the mistake not happened.  
In this case, had the mistake not happened, ReAssure  would  have provided  Mrs J with 
documentation that showed  her policy was due to run until 7 October 2032. In this situation 
I think its likely Mrs J wouldve continued paying  her premiums until this date and, assuming 
she made no claim in the meantime, reclaimed her premiums paid at the end. 
In the circumstances, I consider ReAssures offer to allow  Mrs J to either reduce the sum 
assured to £6,573.80 with an end date of 7 October  2025; or keep the sum assured with the 
later end date, was a fair solution.  This is because it gave her the flexibility  to decide which 
option suited her best. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for ReAssure to refuse Mrs Js request to cancel the plan 
early with a full refund of premiums.  This is because the plan terms and conditions  clearly 
state there  is no cash surrender value at any time. The premiums will only be returned if the 
plan is kept in force for the full term and paid in full. If Mrs J decides to cancel  her plan now 
she should be aware she will forfeit all the premiums shes paid to date. 
I can see it was deeply disappointing for Mrs J to discover she wasnt going to receive as 
much back  from the plan as she expected. And its clear shes  had to spend time and effort 
resolving the matter. So I agree its right that ReAssure  compensate  her for this trouble and 
upset. But I consider the £250 it has already offered is reasonable in the circumstances and 
I wont be asking it to pay any more.  
Ref: DRN94127183my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9412718