K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Oodle Financial Services Limited.
background
Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with Oodle.
Mr K initially  found a few minor issues with the car including a button sticking  and a loose 
door card. After around 6 months Mr K found further  issues  including an incorrect battery, 
poor damage repair, loose side panels, second  hand parts  on the car and a poorly fitted  
driveshaft.
Oodle accepted that there were faults with the car and offered £427  towards  repairs. Mr K 
wasnt happy with the offer. He obtained  an independent report which said the faults were 
likely to have been present at the point  of supply. He asked to reject the car. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said Mr K should be allowed to reject the car.
Oodle didnt agree. It said the independent engineer hadnt  been provided with all of the 
necessary information  to make an informed decision. It said it had photos showing that the 
car was in immaculate condition  prior to sale and suggested that Mr K had been  involved in 
an accident after the point of supply.  It said it had provided photos to the independent 
engineer and was waiting  for further  findings.
Oodle subsequently advised  this service that it hadnt received any further  information  from 
the independent engineer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Oodle  has supplied  the car under  a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory  quality. Cars  are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  thigs)  the age and mileage of the car, the price paid, 
appearance and finish, safety  and durability.
Mr K and Oodle disagree about the condition  of the car at the point  of supply. In order to 
reach a decision  I need  to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Ive looked at the independent inspection report.  This says that the car has had extensive 
and poor quality repairs and that the driveshaft needs immediate attention  because  of safety 
issues. It also says that on the balance of probability  the car was in a compromised state at 
the point of supply.
Ive looked at the pre sale photos provided by Oodle. I can see that theres been some 
deterioration of the car both internally and externally  when these photos are compared to the 
Ref: DRN96775132photos provided by Mr K. Mr K has said that he damaged the front and rear of the car in a 
light accident. I can see light impact  damage in Mr Ks photos.
Oodle has said that the pre sale photos  werent made available  to the independent engineer. 
It has questioned  the reliability of the report. I cant be certain of whether the photos were 
provided . However, in the report, the engineer specifically states that there is no evidence 
that the unsatisfactory repairs took place since the point of supply.  So Im satisfied that the 
independent engineer gave consideration to whether the faults were more  likely to have 
arisen after the point of supply. And he concluded that they were more likely to have been 
present at the point of supply.
Based on the available information, Im persuaded that there  were  faults  with the car at the 
point of supply  which compromise its appearance and finish,  and its safety. Im satisfied that 
the car isnt of satisfactory  quality.  The car has already been returned to the dealership and 
Mr K ended up paying for his own repairs. Because of this, I think the business has already 
had the opportunity to repair the faults  and Im of the view that Mr K should be allowed to 
reject the car.
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold the complaint.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited must:
End the agreement
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr K.
Refund the deposit together  with simple interest at 8% from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement (less the amount to settle the previous finance agreement)
Refund all but 8 of Mr Ks monthly  payments
Refund the costs  of the independent report (£216),  the battery (£150), repairs to the 
prop shaft (£171.84), wheel alignment (£100) and tyre replacement  (£560)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9677513