K820x#14complaint
Miss Bs complaint is about  the sale of business protection  insurance by U K Insurance  
Limited (UKI) from 2008 until 2018.
Miss B feels she was over insured  during this period so UKI should refund the difference 
between the premiums she paid as against  what she shouldve paid, plus interest.
background
In 2008 Miss B moved out of commercial premises into her home as her place  of work. She 
says she told UKI this at the time of renewal but UKI continued to sell her the same type of 
business protection insurance she was sold in previous years.
In March 2019, Miss B spoke with UKI again  and explained that her office was her home 
address. The sales  advisor offered her a different business protection  insurance  policy  that 
was about a fifth cheaper than the premiums shed been paying from 2008. Miss B says UKI 
shouldve done  this sooner. Consequently,  she feels she was over insured for 11 years  and 
that UKI shouldve ensured the cover  shed been sold in that time was suitable for her 
needs. Because of this she wants UKI to refund her the difference in premiums she feels  she 
shouldve paid and what she was actually paying, together  with interest.
UKI have  said that the type of insurance  Miss B was sold in 2019 wasnt available  in 2008. 
And there were significant differences between the insurance shed taken out prior to this. In 
particular, UKI say the insurance Miss B was sold before  this time covered her for a number 
of things the new policy didnt and had higher  claim limits which  accounts for the reduction  in 
premiums in 2019. They also say that Miss B told them that although the main  part of her 
work was from home in 2008, she also said she kept a meeting room  with some office 
equipment at a commercial address.  Because  of this UKI feels  the policies sold to her before  
2019 were suitable to her needs, based on the information shed provided  them  with. 
Our investigator considered Miss Bs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Miss B 
doesnt agree so the matter has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Miss Bs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
The policies were  sold each year on a non-advised basis. This means UKI had to give Miss 
B enough information to allow her to decide whether she wanted to take them out. They 
didnt however need to ensure they were suitable for her needs and circumstances-  that was 
up to Miss B to do based on the information  given to her.
There isnt a call recording of the sale of the policy in 2008 but there are system notes. I can 
see from those notes  that Miss B did tell UKI her main place of work was her home but that 
she still kept office space and some  equipment at a commercial premises  for meetings.  The 
policy UKI sold her at that point reflected this. Having reviewed the policy schedule, I dont 
think theres anything  in the cover that she was sold that prevented her from claiming on the 
policy. And because  the policy was sold on a non-advised  basis,  it was up to Miss B to 
satisfy herself that the cover was suitable  for her needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN97393852I appreciate that Miss B was sold a different type of policy in 2019. But as UKI have 
explained, that policy wasnt available in 2008  and it provided a far lower  level of cover than 
the insurance shed  previously taken out. It didnt  for example, cover  accident and sickness, 
which she claimed on in the intervening years. And the public liability cover  had a limit of £1 
million instead  of £2 million. There were  other  marked differences such  as less cover for loss 
of money and insurance for things like office contents, computer equipment, personal 
accident assault  cover and legal expenses.  So, whilst the policies shed taken out before 
2019 provided comprehensive  commercial  insurance, this was reflected in the premiums 
Miss B was paying.  Miss B then continued  to renew  her insurance with UKI automatically.
Because the insurance was sold on a non-advised basis, it was up to Miss B to satisfy  
herself that it was suitable for her needs. The information UKI provided Miss B with about  the 
policies from 2008 in the form of renewal schedules did make  clear what was covered. And 
in 2019 Miss B satisfied herself of the cover  she wanted to take out by asking a number of 
questions about  the insurance  she previously had in place to help her decide what  to buy 
going forward. I know she feels this was prompted  by being told she had the wrong  
insurance in place. But for the reasons Ive already mentioned, I dont think  she did have the 
wrong insurance in place.  If she wanted to explore whether  there were  different products 
available to her before  2019 that offered  lower levels of cover, then she needed to contact  
UKI to ask for this. Alternatively,  she couldve  used  the services of an insurance broker to 
help her find a competitive insurance  product that was suitable to her needs and 
circumstances rather than go to UKI directly  who would only have offered her their own 
products. 
my final decision
I know Miss B will find my decision disappointing, but for the reasons set out above, I dont 
uphold Miss Bs complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9739385