K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that charges were unfairly added to his loan account and that Mortgage  
Funding 2008-1 Plc didnt do enough to help him when he was in financial difficulties 
and suffering from stress.
background
In around July 2007 Mr F took out a loan for £7,500 with a term of ten years  with 
Southern Pacific Personal Loans  Limited (SPPL)  which was secured by a second 
charge on his property.
SPPL went into liquidation in May 2013  and was dissolved in June 2018. This service  
hasnt considered Mr Fs complaint against  SPPL because, even  if the complaint was 
upheld, it wouldnt be possible to enforce any award  we might make.
SPPL transferred the loan to Mortgage Funding 2008-1 Plc (Mortgage Funding) in early 
November 2010.  Mr F had had difficulties  in keeping up payments on his loan before 
Mortgage Funding took it on and SSPL  had got a suspended  possession  order against  
him in June 2008. By the time the loan was transferred to Mortgage  Funding the arrears  
were already  around £6,750 and the total balance was over £15,000.
Mortgage Funding responded to a complaint from Mr F about charges it had applied  to his 
account up to 26 March  2013. As our investigator explained, this service  cant look at 
Mr Fs complaint about that period because Mr F didnt bring it to this service within  six 
months of Mortgage Fundings final response  letter and there  arent any exceptional  
circumstances why he couldnt have done. So that part of Mr Fs complaint falls outside 
this services jurisdiction.
As a company,  Mortgage Funding  fell within this services jurisdiction until 1 September
2015. So this decision deals with Mortgage Fundings handling of Mr Fs account  between
27 March 2013  and 1 September 2015.
Weve considered Mr Fs complaint from 2 September 2015  onwards against the 
loan administrator and Ill deal with that in a separate decision.
By 27 March 2013 there were arrears of around  £11,485 and the balance of Mr Fs account 
was around £19,350. Much of this was made  up of charges and interest on those charges 
which Mr F thinks  are unfair. He says Mortgage Funding didnt take into account  that he 
was in financial difficulties  or that he was suffering from stress and anxiety due to his 
financial situation when  it was dealing with him.
Our investigator felt that overall  Mortgage Funding had treated Mr F fairly but that two of 
the charges it had put on his account  were unfair and should be repaid. Mortgage  Funding 
agreed but Mr F didnt  accept our investigators view so I reviewed the complaint afresh. I 
recently issued a provisional decision  an extract of which follows:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also take into account the 
relevant rules and regulations.
Ref: DRN93889712When looking at the charges applied to Mr Fs loan account between 27 March 2013 and 1
September 2015, I have to think first about  whether they were applied  in line with the 
terms and conditions of the loan agreement. If they were, I then look to see whether the 
charges were applied  fairly bearing  in mind Mr Fs individual circumstances.
Under the terms and conditions  of the loan agreement Mortgage Funding could 
charge various  fees in line with the tariffs that applied at the relevant time.  They  
included the following,  which  were added to Mr Fs account:
 Arrears management  fee when the contractual monthly payment wasnt  made 
on time or there  were outstanding arrears on the account - £70
 Failed payment  fee where a cheque, bank giro or direct debit had been 
returned unpaid  by Mr Fs bank - £25
 Alternative payment  method fee where payment was made other than the 
ways allowed - £5
I think  the fees charged to Mr Fs account  between 27 March 2013 and 1 September 
2015 were properly charged in accordance  with the terms and conditions of the loan 
agreement and tariffs that applied from time to time.
The relevant  rules say a lender must treat its customers  fairly when theyre  in arrears. 
To comply with these  rules Id expect a lender  to find out what  the customers  financial 
circumstances are and to suggest some ways  of helping the customer  get back on 
track.
And Id expect the customer to engage in a meaningful  way with the lender. For example, Id 
expect the borrower  to keep in contact  with the lender, provide information about his 
circumstances and what he can afford to pay, and make payments in line with any 
temporary arrangements he agrees with the lender.
Although I can only look at Mr Fs complaint between  27 March  2013 and 1 September
2015, I think its right to bear in mind what happened before then when considering  
whether the parties have done  what Id expect them to  as important context for the 
complaint Im considering.
Mr F had a poor payment  history.  He was already  in significant difficulties when Mortgage
Funding took over the loan. Mortgage Lending found Mr F difficult to get hold of as he hadnt
always kept his contact details up to date, sometimes it hadnt  been convenient for him to 
speak and he didnt  ring back when hed said he would. Mortgage Funding had tried to 
keep details  of Mr Fs income and expenditure up to date, but Mr F didnt always 
cooperate. And Mr F failed to keep up payments in line with temporary payment 
arrangements hed agreed  with Mortgage  Funding  from time to time.
Between 27 March  2013 and August 2013 Mr F didnt  make any payments at all and 
doesnt seem to have  had any contact with Mortgage Funding.  So I think  it was fair for 
Mortgage Funding to add arrears management  fees during  that period.
In August 2013 Mortgage Funding was able to review Mr Fs his income  and expenditure 
with him. It agreed  another  temporary  payment plan with Mr F under  which,  if Mr F paid the 
contractual monthly instalment  and something  towards the arrears, no charges would be 
added to his account. Further arrangements  were  put in place after this one came to an 
end. Mr F largely managed to keep up payments. But a few were made late or missed and 
Ref: DRN93889713one payment was made by credit  card which wasnt an agreed way of paying.  A number of 
charges were added  to Mr Fs account  as a result.
I think Mortgage  Funding behaved reasonably  by agreeing to several payment plans even  
though Mr F didnt  make  all the payments as agreed and Mr F was reluctant to let Mortgage 
Funding carry out further reviews of his income  and expenditure to see what  was affordable  
for him. Mortgage Funding also agreed to reverse some of the charges it had properly 
added to his account.
I can appreciate Mr F was worried about  his financial situation. And he did discuss  this 
with Mortgage  Funding,  although I cant see he mentioned  he was suffering from stress  or 
anxiety during the period  Im looking at here. I think Mr F was making  real efforts  to make 
payments above  his contractual monthly instalments to bring down his arrears. But Mr F
wasnt managing  his account as closely as Id expect in the circumstances which is what  
led to some of the late and missed  payments. For example, at one point he said he hadnt  
been monitoring his account as hed been  working away  from home.  And it was still difficult  
for Mortgage Funding to get hold of him to discuss his account.
Bearing all of the circumstances in mind I think Mortgage Funding treated Mr F fairly overall. 
I agree with our investigator that there  are two charges which, on balance, it wasnt  fair to 
add to his account  and which Mortgage  Funding  has said its happy to repay. They  are the 
two charges of £70 each were  put on Mr Fs account  on 9 February  2015  and 9 March 
2015. Although  there were outstanding arrears on the account, which  meant Mortgage 
Funding were permitted under the loan agreement to raise the charges, they were applied 
after Mr F had made agreed payments on time. So I intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint 
against Mortgage Funding in part.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  Mr Fs complaint in part and require  Mortgage
Funding 2008-1 Plc to
(1)remove the two charges of £70 each  which were applied to Mr Fs account on 9
February 2015 and 9 March 2015 plus the interest that has been added to those 
charges; and
(2)recalculate the account as if the charges had never been applied.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Neither Mr F nor Mortgage  Funding has commented  on my provisional decision.  So theres 
no reason to change  it. And for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision I uphold Mr Fs 
complaint in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and require Mortgage
Funding 2008-1 Plc to
(3)remove the two charges of £70 each  which were applied to Mr Fs account on 9
Ref: DRN93889714February 2015 and 9 March 2015 plus the interest that has been added to those 
charges; and
(4)recalculate the account as if the charges had never been applied.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9388971