K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (St Andrews)  has taken responsibility for this complaint because 
the business that sold the PPI to Mrs E transferred the policy to St Andrews. So, to keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to St Andrews as the PPI seller in my decision.
background
Mrs E took out a mortgage in November  2004.  
A few months later, in February 2005, she was sold PPI that protected her mortgage  
repayments in the event  of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Mrs E disagrees.  
Mrs E mainly  says (in summary)  she didn't  knowingly  ever take out this PPI and it wasnt  
something she would've needed as she had other ways  to pay the mortgage if she wasn't 
working  which  was why she didn't take out PPI when she applied  for her mortgage. She 
says she has no recollection at all of any phone call when she agreed  to take out PPI.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint. Heres why I say this.
It looks like St Andrews  sold the PPI to Mrs E during a phone call. 
Theres no call recording. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs E to remember  
exactly what was said as this call was some years ago. So what she says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to look at all the available information  
and think about  the wider  circumstances  when deciding what  I think is most likely.
Based on what this service knows about  the way St Andrews sold PPI over the phone at this 
time, and given that her mortgage  had been  set up already  without PPI, I think she wouldve 
understood that having the PPI was optional. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mrs Es home couldve been  at risk if her mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  
PPI provided dependable cover and better protection than she had otherwise. So, I can see 
why Mrs E mightve felt PPI was useful to have  even if she didnt choose to take it out at 
the start of the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN95213022I think it is likely that St Andrews called to explain  to Mrs E the benefits of having  PPI. I can 
completely understand if Mrs E has forgotten, as this happened such  a long time ago. But 
based on the information Ive seen, I think its likely that during  the call Mrs E decided  that 
she did want the benefits that PPI offered. On balance, I find that she chose to buy the policy  
knowing it was up to her to say if she wanted to take it out. 
St Andrews  says it advised  Mrs E to take out the PPI. So it had to make  sure the policy  was 
right for her. And based on what shes told us about  her circumstances, sick pay, health and 
job at the time I think it was suitable for her. 
Mrs E was eligible for the cover.  Ive taken into account that Mrs Es employer wouldve paid 
her full sick pay for 6 months followed by half pay for 6 months. But the policy couldve paid 
out in full for up to 12 months per accident  and sickness  claim. So the PPI provided better 
protection than she couldve relied  on getting  through her employer. And it wouldve paid out 
on top of sick pay providing  Mrs E with a useful benefit at a difficult  time  especially bearing 
in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled and she 
wouldve only been on half pay after being off work sick for 6 months. 
No job can be guaranteed  to be secure indefinitely. The policy  wouldve also protected  Mrs E 
if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months each time Mrs E claimed successfully  and she couldve made repeated  claims.  
So PPI provided  long term protection for her mortgage.  
Although she had some other insurance  set up, from what shes  told us about  this, it looks 
like the PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. So this 
doesnt affect my overall view.
Ive taken into account that Mrs E had savings at the time.  But I dont know  if she wouldve 
always had savings to rely on if shed needed to make a claim. And the policy  potentially  
paid out for longer than the amount of savings shes mentioned wouldve lasted if shed had 
to rely on these to cover  her outgoings when she was unable to work. Having PPI also gave 
Mrs E some additional financial security as it meant  that she could keep savings for the long 
term as she wouldnt have  been forced  to use this money to pay the mortgage.  Given that 
she didnt choose  to reduce her borrowing by putting her savings towards the cost of buying 
her house  when she took out the mortgage,  I think this mightve been an important 
consideration for her at the time.
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Having PPI wouldve  meant Mrs E could  be sure shed always  be able to keep up the 
monthly repayments in order to protect her home.  So I think  the policy couldve been useful 
and it was suitable for her.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  to 
Mrs E. So, I dont think having more information  about things the policy  didnt cover wouldve 
put her off taking it out.
Ref: DRN95213023I dont know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear to Mrs E when  she decided to buy 
the policy. But it appears that Mrs E chose to take out the cover when she didnt have to in 
order to protect her home.  The policy could offer her a useful benefit if she made a 
successful claim  and theres nothing to suggest  that Mrs E wouldve found the monthly 
premiums difficult  to afford at the time.
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mrs E still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as it gave 
her useful and worthwhile protection in her particular situation. 
All of this means  that I dont think St Andrews mis-sold this policy to Mrs E and so she hasnt 
lost out as a result of anything St Andrews did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything  to 
put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mrs E has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view.  I appreciate  she feels  
strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment.  
In my decision Ive dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this 
complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9521302