K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor  insurance policy 
from the start (voided it) and declined his claim after his motor  bike was stolen. 
background
Mr Bs bike was stolen from his back garden  where  he said hed kept it for about  a week  
whilst he carried  out some repairs. He told MCE that he hadnt engaged the bikes steering 
lock before the theft. MCE told Mr B that there were two issues. The garaging endorsement 
in his policy hadnt been met and it could double  his policy excess. It also said it could 
decline the claim because  of the steering lock exclusion  in the policy. It eventually  voided the 
policy because it said Mr B had misrepresented  where the bike was kept overnight.
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  MCE 
couldnt void the policy because of the garaging clause as he thought Mr B hadnt  made  a 
qualifying misrepresentation about  where  the bike was to be kept overnight.  But he did think 
MCE could void the policy and decline the claim because of the steering lock exclusion.  
Mr B replied  that the policy  exclusion applied to another security device which was engaged 
prior to the theft. He said the exclusion didnt apply to the steering lock. He said the 
exclusions werent stated  in his policy. He asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to MCE on 19 November 2019.  I summarise my findings:
When MCE first investigated Mr Bs claim, it told him that it could  double  his policy excess  
because he hadnt  complied with the garaging  term and condition. The policy  said that if the 
theft of the bike occurred  near the insured  address but outside the locked  garage  then the 
policy excess would be doubled  and an additional  premium of £110 applied.  
But MCE later said that it would void the policy because Mr B hadnt complied with the 
garaging condition. But I didnt think that was fair and reasonable. I explained why I thought 
this. 
Where a complaint  arises  from misrepresentation of information important to an insurer, we 
take into account the relevant legislation. We firstly look to see that the insurer asked a clear  
question when the policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  
whether a policy was offered. And we check whether the informant has acted carelessly or 
deliberately in making the misrepresentation.
Mr B had taken out his policy  online  through  a comparison site. He selected garage as the 
option for where the bike would be stored overnight. This didnt specify that it must be his 
private garage. This is only explained  in the Key Facts  policy documents  which Mr B had to 
open to check  and so progress his policy. I thought  the Key Facts were  very clear about 
what constitutes a garage  and that it must be the consumers private property. 
Ref: DRN97714252So I thought  Mr B was asked a clear question about  the overnight  storage but hed answered 
the question incorrectly  as the garage wasnt his private property.  So I thought Mr B didnt 
take reasonable care to answer the question. 
Mr B explained that he kept the bike in a neighbours  locked  garage. It was located  behind 
their properties. There wasnt an option  for this in any of those presented to him. MCE said 
he should have  chosen Off the road, but I didnt think this described where the bike was 
kept. But Mr B could have  asked for advice about this. So I thought Mr B answered  the 
question carelessly.  
But I didnt think it was reasonable  for MCE to void the policy because of this. MCE provided 
us with evidence  that it would still have  offered  cover if Mr B had answered the question 
correctly, but for an increased premium. 
Because of this, under the relevant legislation, MCE should normally consider the claim and 
settle it proportionately. This would be based on the amount of premium  Mr B paid compared  
to what he would have  paid if hed answered the question correctly.  MCE could also cancel 
the policy. Our approach is that MCE should then give Mr B the option of cancelling his 
policy himself  and so avoid having  the cancellation on his record.  
But MCE had also told Mr B that it could decline the claim  because of the steering lock 
exclusion in his policy. I thought this was a common exclusion in motor insurance  policies,  
and I didnt think it was unusual or unreasonable.  But it was significant and I would expect it 
to be clearly set out in the policy wording and in the summary or Key Facts document.  
This exclusion was stated at the top of the first page  of the Key Facts. And the exclusion was 
included in the policy exceptions on page  6 of the policy booklet.  So I thought this was 
reasonably clear and sufficiently brought to the consumers attention. 
Mr B said he hadnt received his policy documents. But MCE provided us with evidence that 
they were made available to Mr B when he took out his policy.  He didnt  open  the documents 
until recently. Our investigator  checked that the documents could be opened online 
successfully. If Mr B had had a problem  in doing  this he could have raised this earlier with 
MCE, but I couldnt see that he did this. So as the documents were made available  online for 
Mr B so that he could  read them I couldnt say that MCE has made an error.
The policy said that cover  wont be provided if the steering lock wasnt engaged. Mr B told 
MCE the steering  lock hadnt been  engaged  prior to the theft. He had evidence  that the bike 
was wheeled away by the thieves. 
MCE explained that if the steering lock had been engaged, then breaking this would make  it 
harder for the bike to be stolen and would be likely to deter a theft because of the potential  
damage it would cause. So I thought MCE had shown that the steering lock not being 
engaged was material to the theft. 
So I thought  MCE  was entitled to decline the claim because of the steering  lock exclusion. 
But I thought MCE was wrong to void the policy because of the garaging term and condition.  
Mr B no longer has his bike, so reinstating  the policy wasnt  relevant. But I thought  MCE 
should remove record of the voidance from any databases on which  its been recorded  and 
provide Mr B with a letter confirming that the policy was voided  in error. I also thought  that 
the policy should be recorded  as having been cancelled  by Mr B. 
Ref: DRN97714253The incorrect and unfair voidance has caused Mr B considerable  stress as he would have to 
declare the voidance to future  insurers and this could increase his premium.  So I thought 
MCE should reasonably compensate him for this and the trouble hed been caused. I 
thought it should pay him £150. This was in keeping  with the level Id award in similar 
circumstances.
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or MCE, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold the complaint in part.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr B nor MCE responded to my provisional view.  So, as I have  no further 
representations to consider, I can see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require MCE Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.Remove record of the voidance  from any databases on which  its been recorded  and 
provide Mr B with a letter  confirming that the policy was voided  in error. 
2.Record the policy as having been cancelled by Mr B. 
3.Pay Mr B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9771425