K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given in 2009 by Professional  Financial 
Services (PFS) to invest £50,000  into an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme  
(UCIS). He thinks the investment wasnt suitable for him and he wants  to be compensated 
for any losses that he has incurred as a result.
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  over the course of several years,  Mr M used  his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) to invest  in a number of different commercial property schemes as follows:
£100,000 in the Merchant  Place Property Partnership 61 (MP61) in 2007
£100,000 in the Merchant  Place Property Partnership 64 (MP64) in 2007
£75,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership 67 (MP67) in 2009
In 2009 Mr M invested a further £50,000 in the Eaton  Active Special Opportunity Property 
Fund (Eaton Active Fund), which is the subject  of this complaint. He made two more such  
investments, in 2010 and 2012, so six investments  in total.  Mr M was a client of PFS when 
he made the investments. 
Mr M complained to PFS in 2015 about  all six investments. He said that he had been 
advised by PFS to put a high proportion of his SIPP into a number of unsuitable investments 
and that these investments had performed poorly  and were difficult  to sell. He said PFS had 
miscategorised his attitude to risk. And he said he had been  given scant  information  to 
support the advice  hed been given. 
PFS rejected Mr Ms complaint. It said its recommendations  were  within  Mr Ms attitude to 
risk. It said it had sent Mr M confirmation  of its recommendations and that documentation on 
the proposed  investments had also been provided.  It said it had outlined the various risks of 
the proposed  investments. And PFS also told Mr M that the Financial Ombudsman Service  
couldnt look at his complaint because he had elected to be treated as a professional client.  
Nevertheless, Mr M did refer his complaint to this service. 
In my provisional decision I dealt with just Mr Ms investment in the Eaton Active  Fund (his 
complaints about  his other investments have been  looked at separately).  I said,  in short, that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service could look at the merits of Mr Ms complaint. And I 
decided to uphold  the complaint because I didnt think the advice  to invest  in the Eaton  
Active Fund had been suitable  given Mr Ms circumstances and needs.
I asked both parties for their comments on my provisional decision. Neither party provided 
me with any further  substantive evidence or comments. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  satisfied with 
my provisional findings, especially as neither  party has provided me with any further 
Ref: DRN98618652substantive evidence and arguments in response to my provisional decision. It therefore  
follows that I uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
fair compensation
To compensate Mr M fairly PFS should:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no 
compensation is payable.
PFS should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable  on any 
interest awarded.
If redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Ms pension  plan.  The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  
or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a 
deduction of 15%. The payment would otherwise have been  used to provide pension 
benefits, 25% of which would  be tax free and the rest would have been taxed 
according to his likely tax paying status  in retirement   presumed to be 20%, so the 
15% deduction adequately reflects this.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional  interest
Eaton  
Active 
Special 
Opportunity  
Property  
Fundstill existsFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income  Total
Return Indexdate of
investmentdate of
final 
decision8% simple  per year 
from date of final 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days  
of the business being 
notified of 
acceptance of final 
decision)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. PFS should take ownership of
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider.
This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance  paid as above.
Ref: DRN98618653If PFS is unable to purchase the investment the actual  value  should  be assumed to be nil
for the purpose  of calculation. PFS may wish to require that Mr M provides an undertaking to 
pay PFS any amount  he may receive  from the investment  in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. PFS will need to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if PFS totals  all those payments and deduct  that figure at the
end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable? 
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called an income  index, the mix and diversification provided  within  the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  compensation to be paid by a financial business of 
up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or  costs  that I think  are appropriate. If I think  that fair 
compensation is more  than £150,000,  I may recommend the business  pays the balance.
Determination and award : I uphold this complaint. I require Professional Financial Services 
to pay Mr M compensation  as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000 plus any interest  
as set out above. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation is more  
than £150,000, I recommend that Professional  Financial Services pays Mr M the balance.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Professional  Financial 
Services doesnt have  to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
Ref: DRN98618654decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want  to get independent  legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept  this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98618655COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given in 2009 by Professional Financial Services  
(PFS) to invest £50,000 into an Unregulated Collective  Investment Scheme (UCIS).  He thinks  the 
investment wasnt suitable  for him and he wants to be compensated for any losses that he has 
incurred as a result.
background
Over the course of several years, Mr M used  his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to invest in a 
number of different commercial property  schemes as follows:
 £100,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership 61 (MP61)  in 2007
 £100,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership 64 (MP64)  in 2007
 £75,000 in the Merchant Place Property  Partnership  67 (MP67) in 2009
In 2009 Mr M invested a further £50,000 in the Eaton  Active Special Opportunity Property Fund 
(Eaton Active  Fund).  He made  two more  such investments, in 2010 and 2012, so six investments in 
total. All six investments are classed as UCIS  investments. Mr M was a client of PFS when he made 
the investments. He has complained about  the advice he received from PFS for all six investments. 
This complaint deals with just Mr Ms investment in the Eaton Active  Fund.
Ahead of investing in the Eaton Active Fund, PFS sent Mr M a letter saying it proposed classifying 
him as an elective professional client (rather than a retail client). It outlined its reasons  for doing  this, 
along with some  of the protections Mr M would potentially  lose as a result  for example,  in relation to 
being able to bring complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It asked Mr M to confirm  his 
agreement to this, which he did.
A meeting  between the parties took place on 11 May 2009. A one-page fact-find (headed Short Fact 
Find  Essential Notes)  was completed. It recorded Mr Ms circumstances, needs and objectives in a 
series of boxes containing hand written notes. Mr M is noted as being  very sound financially, as 
having a strong household income and as owning  various  properties with no debts. He was said to 
have wanted to invest  cash sitting in his SIPP.  The amount he had available  to invest was said to be 
£125,000. His attitude to risk was recorded in a tick box as being moderately adventurous  (the 
second highest of the five options available).  
In the recommendation  box, LLP Services Eaton  Fund £50k  has been written with the date of the 
recommendation put as 14 May 2009.  A tick box recorded the risk of the product as being 
moderately adventurous (also the second most adventurous of the five available). A 
recommendation for another investment was also included on this one-page  fact find.
On 3 June  2009 PFS wrote  to Mr M confirming its discussions and recommendations.  In the Risk 
Profile section, the letter  said Mr M had a balanced  approach to risk for the majority of his 
investments but was looking  for a higher risk investment on this occasion. Under the heading of 
Objectives, the letter  said Mr M wanted an investment that diversified his assets,  was non-correlated 
with his other investments,  could be held for five-to-seven years, and suited  his risk profile.  The letter  
went on to outline its recommendation and listed  the main strategies of the Eaton Active  Fund.  A 
separate section highlighted that the fund would be able to take advantage  of market conditions after 
a period of falling asset prices in the commercial property  sector. 
The Commission section also said PFS would receive up to 6% of any investment plus 25% of any 
performance fees earned by the funds manager. 
The application form was completed and signed on 14 May 2009 and the £50,000 investment in the 
Eaton Active Fund was made.
Ref: DRN98618656Mr M complained to PFS on 15 May 2015. He said that he had been advised  to put a high proportion 
of his SIPP  into a number of unsuitable investments and that these investments had performed  poorly 
and were now proving  difficult  to sell. He says he shouldnt have  been classified  as an adventurous 
investor. He also said he had been given  scant information to support  the advice hed been given. 
PFS rejected  Mr Ms complaint. It said its recommendation was within Mr Ms attitude to risk. It said it 
had sent Mr M confirmation  of its recommendation  in its letter dated  3 June  2009, and documentation 
on the proposed investment  had also been provided. It said it had outlined the various risks of the 
proposed investment. And PFS also told Mr M that the Financial Ombudsman Service couldnt look at 
his complaint because he had elected  to be treated as a professional client. Nevertheless, Mr M did 
refer his complaint  to this service. 
An ombudsman considered the points PFS made about Mr M being  a professional  client and 
concluded that our rules did allow us to look into the merits of Mr Ms complaint. An adjudicator  then 
upheld Mr Ms complaint because she thought the advice given to him had been unsuitable. She said,  
in short, that too high a proportion of Mr Ms SIPP had been invested in UCIS investments.
PFS disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. It said the Eaton Active Fund was within Mr Ms 
risk tolerances. It said the proportion invested in UCIS  investments wasnt too high given Mr M also 
had substantial  assets  outside the SIPP. It also said Mr M was being disingenuous  when he said he 
didnt receive any written confirmation of the advice hed been given. PFS also restated its opposition 
to the ombudsmans  decision that we could look at the merits of Mr Ms complaint. 
The matter is therefore with me for a decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Jurisdiction
An ombudsman has already issued a decision that said we could look at the merits of Mr Ms 
complaint. As PFS has maintained its objection to this, Ive considered its points afresh. However, I 
agree that this is a complaint  we can look at.
Professional Client Categorisation
PFS categorised Mr M as an elective  professional client. This is important here because  
professional clients can lose some protections, including the right to bring complaints to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. However,  in my view, PFS has fallen short of what  was required under the rules 
regarding the categorisation of professional  clients. 
COBS 3.5.3 states the following:
A firm may treat a client as an elective  professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and,
where applicable,  (2):
(1) the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and knowledge  of the 
client that gives reasonable  assurance, in light of the nature of the transactions or services 
envisaged, that the client is capable of making his own investment decisions  and understanding the 
risks involved  (the qualitative  test);
(2) in relation to MiFID  [not applicable here]
Ref: DRN98618657(3) the following procedure  is followed:
(a) the client  must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as a professional client 
either generally or in respect of a particular  service or transaction or type of transaction or 
product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written  warning  of the protections  and investor 
compensation rights  the client  may lose; and
(c) the client  must state  in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is aware  of 
the consequences of losing such protections.
PFS wrote to Mr M on 23 April 2009 saying it intended to classify him as an elective professional 
client. It defined an elective professional client as being someone who had:
enough wealth, financial knowledge and experience  to be able to decide on the merits of an 
investment by himself.
It thought  Mr M fitted this description because  he had invested assets of at least  £400,000, had 
invested in a similar scheme  in the last year, had invested directly in the property market, and had 
investment property worth  £300,000.  
Mr M signed a statement agreeing to be an elective  professional  client on 28 April 2009. 
Having reviewed  all the available documents,  its clear  to me that PFS didnt undertake  an adequate 
assessment of Mr Ms capability to decide on the investment in question. It assumed Mr M had the 
requisite capability because he had a sizeable  investment portfolio, had some experience in investing 
in property,  and had invested in a similar scheme within  the previous year.  But to say these would  
have given Mr M the required knowledge  and expertise of commercial property and unregulated  
investments is, in my view, a stretch.  
For instance, just because Mr M had invested in a similar scheme in the preceding year doesnt mean 
he built up any real understanding in this area  12 months isnt a particularly long time in this respect. 
He may have built up a good understanding. But theres very little to support this. The fact find was 
short  just one page  and didnt cover anything about Mr Ms understanding of the investment in 
question (the fact-find actually covered  two investments  meaning even less air-time for the Eaton 
Active Fund). Likewise,  its not clear to me why having a relatively large portfolio, or some  exposure to 
an investment property, necessarily confers expertise  on someone when it comes to investing in 
something as complicated, and potentially risky, as commercial property and unregulated 
investments. 
I recognise Mr M was sent a recommendations letter which outlined some  key points of the Eaton 
Active Fund. He also signed an application  form which confirmed he had read and understood the 
information provided  in the investments memorandum. A similar process was followed for his earlier  
UCIS investments. PFS has argued  that this is evidence  of Mr Ms capability to make investment 
decisions as a professorial client. 
PFSs arguments dont change my thinking. For a start, PFS says the prospectuses provided  on Mr 
Ms various UCIS investments sometimes downplayed their risk so, by its own admission, they cant 
be relied upon  as being an impartial source of information for Mr M. And the application  form Mr M 
signed to confirm his understanding of the investment  was signed on 14 May which reduces its 
validity as a source of information given Mr M had already agreed to be a professional client by that 
point. Even  putting these  concerns to one side, PFSs logic is circular. It is using  documents from 
around the time of the investment to prove Mr M already had the necessary  experience  to decide on 
such an investment. 
Ref: DRN98618658If the point  PFS is trying  to make is that the previously signed sales documents (in relation to MP61  or 
MP67 for instance) evidence Mr Ms capability and understanding  in relation to investing in the Eaton 
Active Fund, I note that the underlying investments in these  schemes were different (in relation to 
types of property being  invested, country of investment and levels  of gearing for example) so the 
parallels arent necessarily that strong.
Theres nothing else in Mr Ms circumstances   his profession for instance  that makes me think he 
had the expertise, experience or knowledge that the rules required of a professional  client.  So, all 
things considered, I dont think it was correct for PFS to classify  Mr M as a professional client.  In 
short, the qualitative test of COBS 3.5.3 hasnt been met. Given this, I dont need to make a finding on 
whether the other  requirements of rule have been met. 
DISP 2.7  Professional Clients and Eligibility
As Im satisfied Mr M wasnt correctly  categorised as a professional client, Im not bound to consider 
him as one for the purposes of DISP  2.7. However,  for the sake  of completeness, Im also satisfied 
the rules PFS is relying on, under DISP 2.7, to say professional clients cant bring complaints to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  dont apply  here. 
DISP 2.7.1 says:  A complaint may only be dealt  with under  the Financial  Ombudsman Service if it is 
brought by or on behalf  of an eligible  complainant . 
DISP 2.7.3 goes on to say an eligible complainant must be:
(1) a consumer;
(2) a micro-enterprise;
(a) in relation to a complaint  relating wholly  or partly to payment services, either  at the time of the 
conclusion of the payment  service contract or at the time the complainant  refers the complaint to 
the respondent; or
(b) otherwise, at the time the complainant refers the complaint to the respondent;
(3) a charity which has an annual income  of less than £1 million at the time the complainant  refers the 
complaint to the respondent;
(4) a trustee of a trust which has a net asset value of less than £1 million at the time the complainant  
refers the complaint to the respondent. 
Mr M meets the definition of a consumer as defined by the regulators glossary:
an individual  acting for purposes which are wholly  or mainly outside  that individuals  trade,  business, 
craft or profession.
However, PFS points  to DISP 2.7.9 which  gives a number  of exceptions to the list of eligible 
complainants. One of these exceptions is professional clients. PFS says this applies to Mr M meaning  
he is excluded from being an eligible  complainant.
The point of contention is that an amendment  to the rules came into effect  on 9 July 2015 which says 
DISP 2.7.9 doesnt  apply to a complainant who is a consumer in relation to the activity to which 
the complaint relates  (DISP 2.7.9A). In other words, from 9 July 2015 Mr M, as a consumer, would  no 
longer be subject to the professional client exception meaning he would be an eligible complainant. 
Mr M complained to PFS on 15 May 2015 which is before DISP 2.7.9A applied. However, he brought  
his complaint to us on 27 August 2015 which is after DISP  2.7.9A applied. PFS says Mr Ms complaint 
should be judged  according to the date he referred his complaint to PFS, which  would mean  a 
professional client would not be an eligible complainant. 
Ref: DRN98618659To support  its argument, PFS refers to the rules in respect  of three other categories of eligible 
complainants outlined in DISP 2.7.3  micro-enterprises, charities and trusts. DISP 2.7.3  is explicit in 
anchoring eligibility  to the date that a complaint is made to the respondent (i.e. the business) for these 
categories of complainant. PFS argues that the same approach should apply in Mr Ms case, even 
though the same rules  are silent on the issue for consumers. 
Ive considered this matter  carefully. But I dont think it follows that the rules  in respect of micro-
enterprises, charity or trustees should also apply  to consumers when the rules for consumers are 
worded in a conspicuously different way. I think the fact that the wording is different here cant be 
ignored or assumed  to be an oversight that can simply be bypassed  by applying  the rules  for 
completely different categories of complainant as a proxy. 
The fact is, in relation to consumers, the rules dont specify eligibility is from the date the complainant 
refers the complaint to the respondent. This means I should apply  the rules  as they are written and in 
force at the point the complaint was brought to us. And as the exemption relating to professional 
clients was no longer  part of the rules at this point, Im satisfied  Mr M was an eligible complainant.  
Finally, I recognise PFS doesnt think the ruling  in the case  of Bluefin Insurance  Services Limited v 
Financial Ombudsman Service  Limited assists in this case because the complaint in that case  was 
initially brought  to us rather than to the business. However, as has been pointed out before, the ruling 
does have relevance.  The judge said:
In my judgment it is clear that a complainant  is only eligible if, at the time the complaint is brought, he 
or she falls within the definition  of a consumer. Further,  there is nothing in the definition of "consumer"  
in the glossary which suggests otherwise. Accordingly, I agree with D that Mr Lochner would  be an 
eligible complainant if, at the time he brought the complaint, he was a consumer as defined  by the 
glossary.
Whilst accepting the parallels between the Bluefin case and this case  arent exact, the wording  above 
does nevertheless indicate  that a complainant would be eligible  if, at the time they brought  the 
complaint to us, they were a consumer as defined by the glossary.  This describes Mr M.
It follows that this is a case that we can consider further.
Mr Ms attitude to risk
Turning to the merits of the complaint, my starting point is Mr Ms attitude to risk. 
PFS classified  Mr M as being a moderately  adventurous investor  in the fact-find, which  was the 
second most adventurous of its five categories. In its recommendations  later, it said Mr M was a 
balanced investor for the majority of his investments but was willing  to take on higher  risk 
investments on this occasion, provided  the investment fulfilled a number of other criteria,  specifically:  
diversification, non-correlation with other  investments  and a five-to-seven year time horizon.  It notes 
Mr M never  queried any of this with PFS after being sent the letter.
Mr M has disagreed with PFSs risk rating. He says he never agreed this rating with PFS.  He says he 
wasnt even medium/high risk and certainly  not adventurous. I take from this that Mr M considered 
himself to have been medium risk.
Having reviewed  the documentation  from the time of Mr Ms investment, Ive noted a number of flaws 
in how his attitude  to risk was assessed:
 There wasnt a detailed questionnaire, or any other analytical tool, to objectively measure  Mr 
Ms preferences and thoughts on this subject   just a tick box on the fact-find.
Ref: DRN986186510 The fact-find didnt contain any explanation  of the different risk categories or any commentary 
on why Mr M was classified in the way he was. 
 Mr M didnt sign the fact-find to confirm his attitude  to risk.
 Theres a significant disconnect between what was recorded in the fact-find  (moderately 
adventurous) and the more nuanced approach to risk recorded in the recommendations letter  
(typically balanced but higher  risk on this occasion).  
 The recommendations letter was dated 3 June 2009 which is after the application form for the 
investment had been signed (which  was on 14 May 2009) and after the £50,000 was paid 
(sometime in late May). So it doesnt look like Mr M would have seen how his attitude to risk 
was recorded before  he was sold the investment.
The above doesnt necessarily mean Mr M wasnt looking for a higher risk investment on this 
occasion, although it does  call into question  the process  that was followed. However, Ive also taken 
into consideration  the fact that when Mr M first became a client of PFS in 2007 he signed a Terms of 
Business document. In this document, he scored his overall attitude to risk as being a 5 on a scale 
of 1 to 10. Im satisfied  this means Mr M wasnt an adventurous investor  at this point; more likely  he 
was a medium-risk, or balanced,  investor.
Im also satisfied the 2007 process was a bit more robust than the 2009 process. Theres at least 
some explanation of the different categories with 1 being described  as guaranteed/little risk and 
10 as very speculative/no guarantees. The Terms  of Business also refer to a separate risk guide. 
And Mr M signed just below the risk rating to confirm  his agreement  with the Terms  of Business. 
So Im inclined to put more faith in the 2007 attitude to risk process rather  than what came later. Of 
course, its feasible someone could be a medium risk investor in 2007 but two years later had become  
either moderately adventurous (according to the fact-find) or balanced but seeking higher risk 
(according to the recommendations letter). But in the absence of any contemporaneous  explanation 
for why Mr M changed  in this way, or any consistency  or rigour to the later risk assessment, I dont 
think I can reasonably  rely on what was recorded in 2009. In the circumstances, and taking into 
consideration what  Mr M has said as well, Im satisfied that Mr M would  have still been a medium risk 
investor at this point. 
Ive considered PFSs point that Mr M didnt respond to the recommendations letter  and that this 
means he must have  been  comfortable with its contents, including its confirmation of his risk appetite.  
PFS has also argued that Mr M must have had a higher risk tolerance given his previous investments. 
So even though the process may not have been documented  properly (not that PFS ever says this),  
Mr M was, nevertheless, still at the higher  end of the risk spectrum. 
I accept Mr M did want  to take on some risk, and my decision does  reflect this. However, I dont feel 
Mr Ms lack of response to the recommendations letter can necessarily  be considered  as being  tacit 
agreement for everything that it contained.  And Mr M was also advised  by PFS for his previous 
investments, using the same  light-touch fact-find. So Im not persuaded  Mr Ms previous investments 
can be used as objective evidence of Mr Ms attitude  to risk.  
was the advice suitable?
Mr M invested £50,000  in the Eaton Active Fund. Shortly after the investment, Mr Ms SIPP was 
valued at £739,532. So the Eaton Active Fund accounted for approximately 7% of his SIPP. And 
UCIS investments in total accounted for 54% of his SIPP,  with 14% run by a discretionary fund 
manager and 32% in cash.  In my view this is too high given, as outlined  above,  Mr Ms likely risk 
tolerances at the time.  (It should  be noted  that the very nature of Mr Ms UCIS investments makes 
valuation difficult. These figures  are taken  from a statement provided by Mr Ms SIPP provider and 
have been given to PFS.) 
Ref: DRN986186511I take on board  PFSs  point that UCIS  investments  arent all necessarily high risk, and that a case-by-
case approach needs to be taken when  looking  at the suitability of such investments. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I have taken into consideration the underlying assets in the Eaton Active Fund 
(UK commercial property  including a proposed initial investment in a property in the South West). 
However, in my view, this was a higher risk investment. At the very least, it was unregulated  and 
would have had a greater  degree  of illiquidity than more mainstream investments. I dont need to 
labour the point  PFS has said that the investments  in question  carried a relatively  high degree of 
risk and the risk section of its recommendation  letters  confirm as much. The key issue here is the 
amount that was allocated to these investments. And in my view advising Mr M to invest  
approximately 7% of his pension in a single,  potentially  illiquid,  unregulated, investment wasnt 
suitable advice, especially  given over half of Mr Ms pension was already in UCIS investments. The 
problem with the advice was compounded  by the fact that the UCIS investments  were all commercial 
property-related, making Mr M, and his retirement plans, particularly exposed to this asset class. 
PFS has argued that Mr Ms total portfolio is far larger than indicated  above because he had 
investments that were held outside  his pension. By PFSs  reckoning, Mr M had a total portfolio of 
£1.5 million. It calculates the Eaton Active Fund investment as being  approximately 5% of his total 
portfolio, bringing the cumulative total in UCIS  investments up to 21.6%. 
This is a particular point of contention between the parties.  Mr M says he didnt  have such  a large 
portfolio. He says he had a one-fifth share of a small  family property worth £145,000  and joint savings  
with his wife of approximately £200,000 outside his SIPP.  These arent  inconsiderable assets, but 
theyre nowhere near enough to change my thinking.  By way of illustration, adding Mr Ms share  of 
these other  assets to his SIPP means his total exposure to UCIS investments falls from 54% to 46%.
In contrast, PFS points to the fact-find which  recorded Mr M as having the following:
Very sound financially.  Own various properties with no debts.
And PFS says its recommendation letter said the following about  the proposed investment:
 
Having considered both your income and expenditure we agreed that the investment of £50,000 was 
affordable. This investment was selected on the basis  that it was the maximum that you wished  to 
invest to meet your objectives at this time. It represents a modest proportion <10% of your available 
cash and other investments
PFS has said that the 10% figure was incorrect. Mr M made another investment at around the same 
time for £75,000. The suitability report for that investment  said £75,000 represented 5% of Mr Ms 
total assets. Based on this, PFS has backed out how much Mr M must  have had at this time  which 
works out as £1.5 million. 
This isnt particularly  compelling. PFS is asking everyone to ignore the actual recommendations letter 
for the Eaton  Active Fund and instead rely on a recommendations letter sent for a different 
transaction. Even then the figure for Mr Ms total portfolio size has to be worked out from other 
information because the £1.5 million doesnt appear to have been recorded anywhere. Typographical 
errors do occur  of course, but the circuitous route to get to PFSs  view of Mr Ms total portfolio doesnt 
suggest a particularly robust  advice  process, especially  given the £1.5 million figure  has been put 
forward as being central to why Mr M was advised in the way he was.
Ref: DRN986186512Part of the problem lies with PFSs assertion  that it should be able to rely on what its told by its 
clients. This is a reasonable  starting  point. But I think it would be remiss  of an adviser to take 
everything its told at face value and without question, not least  because a client may not be fully 
aware of the details of their financial position at any given  point in time, or may not understand their 
finances well. COBS 9.2.5 is illustrative  in this respect. It says:
A firm is entitled to rely on the information provided  by its clients unless it is aware that the 
information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete.
So I think PFS should have considered Mr Ms wider  portfolio with a bit more  rigour. It had a duty to 
advise Mr M suitably and it doesnt seem to me that it could have done this without looking into Mr Ms 
total assets more  thoroughly. If it had done  so, there may now be more  certainty about the relative 
size of his unregulated investments.  For the record, it wasnt enough to just tell Mr M that his 
investment was less than 10% of his funds and to have then expected him to work out the rest and 
get back  to PFS with any issues.
As PFS didnt investigate Mr Ms wider portfolio, or record any details in relation to it, we did ask Mr M 
about this. As I said above, he said he had a one-fifth  share of a small family property worth £145,000 
and joint savings with his wife of approximately  £200,000 sitting outside his SIPP. I see no reason  to 
disbelieve Mr M on this and, as Ive said, PFSs evidence to the contrary  isnt especially compelling.  
However, it doesnt  ultimately impact on the outcome  of the complaint anyway. I say this because:
 Even if I take PFSs numbers  at face value, I still dont  think its advice was suitable.  Mr Ms 
portfolio already had a high exposure to UCIS/commercial property investments, even using 
PFSs estimates. Advising him to invest around 5% more  along  the same lines to bring his 
total exposure to UCIS/commercial property to 21.6% (in PFSs view) wouldnt have been 
suitable given Mr Ms attitude to risk. The magnitude  of the problem might be less than if only 
his SIPP is taken into consideration. But the principle  is the same.  Mr M should not have been 
advised to continue to invest  such a large  proportion  of his funds in this way. 
 I dont think Mr Ms pension should be subsumed, and overlooked, in the way PFS is 
suggesting. We know  very little about  Mr Ms specific investment goals. But we do know his 
pension was central  to his financial  plans  and was his reason  for engaging PFS. And, given 
his age at the time, we can also assume he would  have been looking to draw on his pension 
within approximately 10 years (although  it turned out to be less than this). Putting too high a 
proportion of his assets in higher risk, illiquid, assets put Mr Ms retirement  planning  at 
considerable risk.  
 Mr M wasnt even advised of his total exposure to UCIS  investments in the June 2009 
recommendations letter.  The letter  just mentions  the investment was a modest  proportion  
<10% of his total funds. As discussed above, according to PFS this figure isnt even  correct. 
But putting  this to one side, it doesnt give the total picture anyway, which was that Mr M was 
taking his total exposure to UCIS investments to 21.6% (in PFSs view). Ignoring such  
important information in the recommendations letter suggests it wasnt discussed  with Mr M at 
all. So, all things considered, it would  be difficult to say Mr M had been fully informed of his 
position or was comfortable with the risks he was running. And the fact that Mr M received 
statements from his SIPP  provider  showing his investment position doesnt negate the need 
for PFS to have given  more comprehensive information, and suitable  advice, before he took 
action.
Ive also considered the other requirements PFS said Mr M wanted from this investment, specifically: 
an investment that diversified his assets, was non-correlated with his other investments and could be 
held for five to seven  years.  
As mentioned  earlier, the recommendations letter that outlined these requirements has to be treated 
with some caution  because it was dated after the application for the investment was signed and 
dated. But even if I take its contents at face value, it doesnt seem to me that the Eaton Active Fund 
Ref: DRN986186513would have met Mr Ms requirements.  The diversification and correlation benefits would have been 
reduced given his previous investments in commercial  property/UCIS investments. And investing in 
assets that are likely  to be illiquid doesnt tally with an investment  time horizon  that could have been 
as short as five years. 
In short, even  with all the uncertainty in relation to Mr Ms total assets, its clear to me that there were  
a number of problems with the advice PFS gave to Mr M and (not coincidently) with the advice 
process itself. If PFS had acted as it should  have  done,  Im satisfied it wouldnt have advised Mr M to 
invest in the Eaton Active  Fund.  
what information  did Mr M receive?
Mr M says he received little in the way of documentation in relation to the various investments  he 
made whilst  a client of PFS.  PFS says this isnt credible. It said it provided  Mr M with information  on 
all his proposed investments including their significant risks (either in its recommendations letters or 
through the schemes prospectuses).  It says Mr Ms recollections on this cast doubt  on his entire  
complaint. 
In relation to the Eaton  Active Fund, it seems Mr M wasnt sent the recommendations  letter until after 
the application form for the investment was signed and money transferred.  So it doesnt look like he 
did receive appropriate information ahead of investing. 
That said, I accept the broader point PFS is making. I think it likely  Mr M would  have received at least 
some of the documentation produced over the course of this series of investments, and most likely  a 
significant proportion  of it. This isnt a comment on Mr Ms integrity. Its feasible  that he was sent 
information but didnt look at it, or looked at the information but cant remember  doing so. 
However, the critical issue here is whether PFS provided  Mr M with suitable  advice. For the reasons 
given above, I dont think it did in relation to this investment. 
This leads on to another point PFS has argued strongly about. It says it provided Mr M with 
information about his proposed investments, including their potential risks. PFS argues  that it is 
dishonest of Mr M to pretend he wasnt aware  of the investments risks and unfair  that he is 
abrogating all responsibility now that hes no longer satisfied with how those investments have 
performed. 
Putting aside when the information was sent, the actual  content of the information wasnt particularly 
informative anyway. For instance, the main  body  of the recommendations letter has very little on risk, 
and the paragraph it does have is relatively generic  in the warnings it does  give:
Prospective investors should be aware that investment  in the Fund involves a high degree of risk. 
The value of an investment  in the Fund may go down in value  and investors may not get back  the 
amount originally invested. The investment  may be illiquid until the Fund is wound  up. Prospective 
investors need to refer to the Information  Memorandum  (pages 5-8) and the attached  Risk Warning.
In contrast, the upsides  of the investment are relatively detailed and not phrased in a particularly 
cautious manner:
the Fund  can already  predict  with a high degree of certainty that any investment made  now will be 
instantly cash generative,  providing excellent double-digit returns for investors  immediately.
And, as Ive already  pointed, PFS provided  incorrect information in its recommendations letter  when it 
quoted the percentage that was being invested the Eaton Active Fund.  It could also have done far 
more to inform  Mr M about  his total exposure to commercial property and unregulated  investments. 
Ref: DRN986186514So I dont accept PFSs  starting  point  that Mr M was given all the information he needed. But even if 
the information had been adequate, PFSs premise  is flawed here. Wrapping unsuitable advice in a 
number of risk warnings  doesnt make up for the failings in that advice. 
What would  Mr M have done if he had been advised  properly?
There is an argument Mr M would still have  invested  in the Eaton Active  Fund even if PFS had 
advised him against  doing  so. I say this because Mr M invested in similar schemes  previously and 
because PFS has said he had a particularly  strong preference for this type of investment. 
Ive considered this very carefully because in situations  like this, my role is to put someone back  in the 
position they would have been in had a business  not given unsuitable advice. if Mr M would  still have 
gone ahead with the investment  even if advised against  doing so  then he would have ended up in 
the same position whatever  PFSs  actions.  It wouldnt  necessarily be fair to hold PFS liable  for any 
losses in such a scenario.  
My view is that Mr M wouldnt have proceeded with the investment if he was advised against doing 
so. For a start, its seems unlikely  to me that a consumer  would go against the advice of a 
professional adviser.  And there isnt anything to show Mr M came to PFS with this particular 
investment in mind or was particularly  determined to follow through on the investment. As ever, the 
supporting documentation isnt comprehensive enough to show what, or how strong, Mr Ms intentions 
were. Mr Ms previous UCIS  investments also followed advice from PFS which weakens  the argument 
that it was Mr M, and Mr M alone,  who was driving  the process.  
It follows from the above that I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
proposed compensation
To compensate Mr M fairly PFS should:
 Compare the performance  of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark  shown below.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
PFS should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
If redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should  allow 
for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt  be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump  sum after making a deduction of 15%. The payment 
would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which would be tax free 
and the rest would have been taxed according  to his likely tax paying  status in retirement  
presumed to be 20%, so the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.
 Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Ref: DRN986186515investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
Eaton Active 
Special 
Opportunity 
Property  
Fundstill existsFTSE  UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Indexdate of
investmentdate of
settlement8% simple  per 
year from date of 
final decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance of 
decision)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market),  it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil to arrive at fair compensation. PFS should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount should  be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance  paid as above.
If PFS is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. PFS may wish to require that Mr M provides an undertaking to pay PFS any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. PFS will need to meet  
any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there  is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler,  Ill accept  if PFS 
totals all those  payments  and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
If the investment has been sold, the parties should inform me so it can be factored into the approach 
to compensation, if due, in my final decision. 
why is this remedy suitable? 
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
 Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept investment risk.
 The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Ref: DRN986186516 Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mr Ms 
circumstances and risk attitude.
recommendation
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial business  of up to 
£150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are appropriate.  If I think  that 
fair compensation is more  than this, I may recommend that the business  pays  the balance.
If I uphold this complaint, and the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation outlined 
above, is more than £150,000  I will recommend Professional Financial Services pays  Mr M the 
balance. This recommendation will not be part of my determination or award. Professional Financial 
Services doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my final decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to get independent legal  advice before 
deciding whether  to accept a final decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, and subject  to any further comments and evidence I may receive, I 
intend to uphold this complaint. 
If I do uphold this complaint, I will be asking Professional  Financial Services to calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN9861865