K821x#15Complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited  (Shawbrook), following a 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background
Miss S was contacted by Staybrite Solar,  a company that supplied and installed solar  panel 
systems. Following a meeting, Miss S agreed  to enter into a contract  with Staybrite Solar  for 
it to supply and install a solar panel  system  costing  about £7,000. To fund this Miss S also 
agreed to enter into a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Miss S made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA via her representative.  The 
representative said that Staybrite Solar had told Miss S that the solar  panels would be self-
funded and that the monthly loan repayments  would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff 
(FIT) income. But that hadnt happened. Instead,  the monthly loan repayments had been 
much higher  than the income.
In its final response letter,  Shawbrook said that it didnt think the benefits  of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented.  Unhappy  with this response, Miss S referred the complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She felt the benefits of the solar 
panel system had been misrepresented. She recommended  that Shawbrook  calculate the 
potential savings and income to Miss S over the term of the loan. She said it should then 
restructure the loan so that Miss S didnt pay any more than this over the 15 year term of the 
loan. She also recommended that Shawbrook pay Miss S £100  to recognise the trouble and 
upset caused.
Shawbrook accepted our investigators  view. Miss S, via her representative,  didnt. 
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S says that she was cold-called and during a sales meeting told that the solar panels  
would be entirely  self-financing.  Having carefully  considered the available evidence,  like the 
investigator I think that Staybrite Solar did misrepresent  the benefits of the solar panel 
system. Shawbrook has accepted the investigators  view and as a result  this decision will 
deal with what I consider  to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they would have been 
in if there  had been no misrepresentation.  However,  here, I dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar  panels from Miss Ss home. Rather, I think  
the fair outcome here is to put Miss S in a position where the panels  are self-funding  over 
the original term of the loan. By allowing Miss S to keep the panels, I am satisfied that she 
Ref: DRN92620102will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the 
term of the loan has finished).
Miss Ss representative says that she was told that the loan repayments would be covered 
by the FIT. So Ive considered whether any electricity savings should  be taken into account  
when arriving at fair compensation.
Im satisfied that Miss S was misled  into thinking that the solar  panels would be self-funding 
and so, on that basis I need  to decide fair compensation. When  thinking about that question,  
I think its fair to take account of the electricity generated  by the solar panel units. On the one 
hand Miss S has to pay her loan and for any electricity used in addition to that generated by 
the panels and on the other she can off-set those payments  by the FIT payments and the 
savings associated with the electricity generated  by the panels. It would be unfair to ignore 
the electricity generated and used by Miss S when calculating  fair compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. This methodology has been  shared with 
Miss Ss representative.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future  performance  of 
Miss Ss solar  panel system.  
Shawbrook has outlined  that when calculating the estimated future performance of Miss Ss 
solar panels  it will use a number of assumptions. These include using a self-consumption 
rate of 37%.  This is the percentage of energy generated by Miss Ss solar  panels that she is  
expected to use rather than buying electricity from her energy provider. An ombudsman  who 
issued a previous  final determination considered  that a 50% self-consumption rate was a fair 
assumption as this was the assumption  used  by Government. Following further  submissions,  
in a previous decision  I was satisfied that a self-consumption rate of 37% was reasonable.   
Miss Ss representative has said that the methodology  being  used  to make the panels self-
funding is out of date. It has provided a joint statement from two industry experts to support 
this. In particular  the experts disagree  that a self-consumption rate of 37% should be used  in 
every case  and that a payment should be made  towards covering ongoing maintenance and 
repair costs.
Ill deal first with the self-consumption rate. Ive thought carefully about the points the 
representative has made as well as the expert  testimony provided. Ive taken into account 
that both experts  have  previously provided  reports to this service and have disagreed  on 
what they consider  to be a reasonable self-consumption rate. For example previously one 
expert has said 25% is reasonable while the other  has suggested that at the point of 
calculating redress a rate of 37-41%  was reasonable for a passive consumer but went on to 
say that using the Energy Trusts online calculator  which takes more account  of occupancy 
during the day a rate of 37% was reasonable.  
What is clear is that self-consumption is impacted  by the period of time someone is in their 
home and able to use, or self-consume, the electricity their solar  panel system is generating. 
And so Im not persuaded that I should  use the Governments 50% rate or the higher end of 
the passive consumer. It is self-evident  that determining an exact figure over the period of 
the loan is difficult. My role is to determine fair compensation  and arrive at an outcome that 
is fair and reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact science.
Ref: DRN92620103Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the opinion  that this takes into account all the available  
evidence discussed  above and also takes into account changing consumer occupancy 
habits over the lifetime  of the solar  panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, as it has in 
this case, Im satisfied  that it is highly likely that Miss S will continue  to benefit from the 
system as a result of a reduction in her electricity  bills because  of the electricity generated by 
the panels and the FIT payments. 
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by Shawbrook, including electricity  price 
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by Shawbrook provide a 
fair and reasonable basis for calculating  fair compensation.
I turn now to consider on-going maintenance and repair costs. The joint statement I referred 
to above suggests that the inverter will need to be replaced at least twice over the lifetime  of 
the panels, at a cost of around  £1,050  each  time.
 
Ive looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels  dont need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter  will need replacing 
sometime during  the lifetime of the panels at a current  cost of about £800.
I accept that a consumer  could  have  some maintenance and repair  costs  over the lifetime of 
the solar panels.  The proposed approach to put things right for the consumer is to make the 
solar panels  self-funding over the original  term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid, 
as Ive already  outlined  above, Miss S is highly likely to enjoy significant benefit from the 
solar panel  system by way of savings and the FIT income going forward. In addition,  Miss S 
has already paid back the loan and will get back a lump sum to cover her overpayments 
together with interest. 
Based on the available information Im satisfied  that the potential  benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs and Miss S will be able to use her compensation payment to 
pay for a replacement inverter if necessary.
Because of the reasons  Ive given above Im not persuaded that the business should  make 
an award for maintenance and repair costs.  
I am satisfied that there was sufficient  information available at the time that Miss S first 
contacted Shawbrook that means  that her claim should have been upheld. The fact that this 
did not happen undoubtedly  caused  her trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an 
award of £100  to cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Miss Ss complaint should  be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
(a)allow Miss S to keep  the solar panels,
Ref: DRN92620104(b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Miss S from the panels  over the 15 year 
term of the loan and rework it so she pay no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Miss Ss electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,  and;
(d)pay Miss S £100 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss S how much itss taken off. It should also 
give Miss S a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN9262010