K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc declined her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974,  and refused to raise chargebacks, in relation to various  
purchases she made from five different retailers.
background
Mrs J has a credit card with Bank of Ireland. She used it to purchase items from five 
retailers, which for various reasons she was not satisfied  with. She asked  for these to be 
refunded. Being dissatisfied with the retailers responses, she asked  the bank to refund 
them. In 2018  she approached our Service.
Our adjudicator only upheld this complaint in relation to one of the retailers.  Of the other four 
retailers, he said that two of them had already paid refunds, so there was nothing more  the 
bank needed to do about those. The purchases  from two other retailers  had not been 
covered by section  75, and Mrs J had complained to the bank about them too late for the 
bank to raise chargebacks.
The majority of the purchases had been made  from the fifth retailer,  in a number of orders. 
They mostly related  to Mrs Js new kitchen,  and were supposed to have  been  delivered to 
her house  for installation.  Mrs J wanted refunds because  she said these  items  had been 
damaged when they arrived, or had not been delivered at all.
The adjudicator accepted  that some of the purchased items had been damaged,  because  he 
had seen Mrs Js photographs of them. But he couldnt tell which items the photos showed, 
because they were still in their packaging. So although he upheld that part of her complaint, 
he said he would be unable to say how much should be refunded  until Mrs J provided  a list 
of the damaged items. He did however propose to award her £300  because of delays  in the 
banks investigation  of her claim.
No such list has ever been provided. The bank  maintains that it cant be expected to pay 
refunds until it is told which items  need to be refunded. The bank agreed to refund the 
damaged items once  they were identified, but said that it did not appear  that all of the items 
had originally been the subject of the dispute. Some items had already been refunded or 
replaced by the retailer, and the retailer considered the matter  closed, as it thought that 
Mrs J appeared to now have a working  kitchen. The delay in the banks investigation had 
only happened because  Mrs J had never  provided  the bank or the retailer  with a list of which  
items were in dispute, despite repeated requests.
Mrs J says that no such list is necessary,  because  all of the items  in each order  were  
affected. She has already provided evidence  of how much each order  cost, and so she says 
the bank has enough information to know how much to refund to her  that is, the total price 
of all the orders. She said that £300 was not enough compensation for her inconvenience.  
She also asked for the purchases from the other retailers to be refunded too. So the 
adjudicator referred  this complaint for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows. (I have edited the sections entitled the 
oil spillage and missing items  and delays to clarify  my findings, in the light of submissions 
made by Mrs J in response  to my provisional  decision.)
Ref: DRN93473052my provisional findings
introduction
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am minded to uphold  it in part.
I can deal with the four retailers about which our adjudicator did not uphold a complaint 
shortly. I have seen  evidence that three of the retailers  have refunded  the cost of the items  
which were in dispute. There is nothing more that Bank of Ireland needs to do about those. 
The item sold by the fourth retailer was not covered  by section 75 because it was priced at 
less than £100, and by the time Mrs J complained to the bank about it, it was too late to raise 
a chargeback instead. So I agree that the bank  does not have to refund that purchase.
That just leaves the fifth retailer, which from now on I will just refer to as the retailer.
Mrs J has, at one time or another, complained about  the following orders:
Date of order Total amount paid for order
15 May 2017 £1,046:75
17 May 2017 £33
21 May 2017 £559:50
22 May 2017 £42
26 May 2017 £1,919:55
10 August 2017 £35
11 November 2017 £65
3 April 2018 £25
The sums of £42, £33 and £65 have been refunded by the retailer. The complaint about the 
order in April 2018 was that the item purchased was not delivered, but it was delivered  in 
May of that year. So I no longer need to consider those  four orders.
That leaves the orders dated 15 May, 21 May,  26 May and 10 August. These were  as 
follows:
Date Amount Description
15 May 2017 £1,046:75 112 items
21 May £559:50 68 items
26 May £1,919:55 129 items,  including a 
fridge, freezer, oven,  and 
3 kitchen worktops
10 August £35 Gas hob
In addition to the above  orders,  Mrs J is also complaining  about  a faulty dishwasher, priced 
at £200. I havent  seen  a receipt or order for that purchase, but it is not in dispute that she 
bought it. Apparently that was on 30 May 2017.  She says she paid £100 on a card, and the 
rest of the price was made up of refunds or a gesture of good will by the retailer  for some  
earlier trouble.
the dishwasher
As a gesture  of good will, the retailer sent Mrs J a replacement  hinge for the dishwasher in 
April 2018, because she had complained  that it wasnt working properly. The bank says that 
Ref: DRN93473053after that, she did not complain to the retailer or to the bank again, and so they concluded 
that the fault had been fixed. However, Mrs J says it is still not working  properly, and she has 
provided a report from an engineer, dated  July 2018, which says it is still faulty. The 
engineer (who appears to have visited her home on behalf of the retailer) said it needed  to 
be repaired.
The difficulty  here is that section 75 will only apply to Mrs Js purchase of the dishwasher  if 
she paid for it with her credit card. But I have seen her credit card statement  for the relevant  
period, and it does  not show any payment of £100  to the retailer  at the relevant time. 
Another issue with section 75 is that the Consumer Rights Act 20151 allows a retailer  one 
opportunity to repair damaged goods  before it has to replace them. But Mrs J told our 
adjudicator (in an email  on 29 August  2018)  that she refused to let the retailer  repair the 
dishwasher, and insisted that it supply her with an upgrade  to a better model instead. The 
retailer was under no obligation  to do that. So even if the dishwasher had been paid for with 
credit provided by the bank, I think a section 75 claim would have been bound to fail for that 
reason.
Mrs J might however have meant that she made a debit card payment, so I have  considered 
whether a chargeback might have succeeded instead.
Chargeback is not a statutory right, but a remedy provided under the rules of the credit  card 
scheme. A chargeback request must satisfy the chargeback  rules  or else it will be declined. 
There is an exhaustive list of reasons for raising a chargeback. Here, the chargeback  reason 
would have been that the goods were  defective  or damaged. But this reason only applies if 
the retailer has refused  to repair  the goods.  So for essentially  the same  reason I described 
above in the context of section 75  the retailers right to repair the goods  I think  a 
chargeback would have failed too.
the orders dated 15, 21, and 26 May
I have seen the correspondence between  Mrs J, the retailer,  and the bank. When  Mrs J 
originally complained to the bank on 1 and 30 June  and 3 September  2017,  she only 
complained about the orders dated  17, 22 and 26 May. These are the orders priced at £33, 
£42, and £1,919, of which the first two have been  refunded. Most of the correspondence  with 
the retailer and the bank  describes a complaint  about problems  with orders to do with a 
kitchen. The order of 26 May was indeed for a new kitchen.
However, Mrs J did not mention the earlier orders of 15 May (£1,046) and 21 May (£559) 
until, it appears, as late as 2018.  By that time it was too late for the bank to raise  a 
chargeback for those  purchases, and so her only remedy  was under section 75.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act does not apply  to any single item which  is priced at 
£100 or less. I have  thought about  whether a whole new kitchen could be considered  to be a 
single item,  but I think that would be stretching the language  of the section  too far. In any 
case, most  of the items in the 15 May order (and perhaps all of them) do not appear to relate 
to a kitchen. I havent seen  the 15 May order or invoice, but I have seen the receipt, which  
gives the product  codes  for each item. Searching the retailers  website for the product codes 
shows that the only items in the 15 May order which were priced at more than £100 were  
1 The 2015  Act says that Mrs Js contract for the supply of goods includes an implied term that the 
goods will be of satisfactory quality. Section  75 of the 1974 Act makes Bank of Ireland  jointly liable for 
a breach of that term by the retailer, if the goods were  paid for using  a Bank of Ireland  credit card.  But 
the 2015  Act also gives the retailer the right to try to repair the goods.
Ref: DRN93473054either sofas or armchairs. It seems that no complaint has been made about those items. 
There were no items in the 21 May order worth  more  than £100.
Since no complaint  appears to have been made  about the 15 May and 21 May orders  until 
over half a year later, I think its unlikely that there  was really  a problem with those orders.  
The retailers  contact notes show that on 27 May Mrs J complained about a delivery, and 
I think this delivery must relate to what was ordered on 26 May, the day before,  rather than a 
delivery on 15 or 21 May.  I am reinforced in that view by the fact that the retailer  has been  
unable to find any record of any earlier delivery  being aborted or returned,  or being 
complained about at the time.
The only items in the 26 May order worth more than £100 were  a fridge (£295), a freezer 
(also £295), and two worktops (£120 each).
the oil spillage
There were a number of problems with the 26 May order.  Firstly,  a can of wood  oil was 
spilled on some items, and I have  seen photographs of them in their packaging,  soaked  with 
oil. The whole order was returned to the retailer. The retailer investigated,  and found  that the 
items themselves had not been damaged   only the packaging. These items were re-
delivered on 6 June (see below). So in the absence of clear  evidence that the items 
themselves were damaged, I cant fault Bank  of Ireland  for declining  to pay a refund for 
those items,  or for declining to raise a chargeback for them.
There was still a breach  of contract, as there was a statutory implied term that the delivery  
would be performed with reasonable care and skill, and that clearly wasnt done. The need  
to investigate the damaged packaging must have caused a delay,  and that delay would have 
inconvenienced Mrs J. However, it isnt clear  that the oil was spilled on any of the items 
which were worth more than £100.  So I cant  uphold  a section  75 claim about the spillage.
missing items and delays
Next, some items which  were  supposed  to have been in the 26 May order were  in fact 
missing. These items were delivered on 6 June, along with the rest of the items from the 26 
May order. The re-delivery was supposed to take place on 1 June, and then it was moved to 
2 June, before it was finally  done  on 6 June.  The retailer  appears  (from  its records)  to have 
accepted that these  delays were its own fault.  As there is also an implied  term that a contract 
will be performed within a reasonable  time, I think that is another  breach of contract,  and this 
time it did affect the items  worth more than £100. So I will uphold this part of this complaint. 
I think £100 is fair compensation for these issues.
the fridge
On the day of the re-delivery and the next day, 6 and 7 June, Mrs J complained  about  her 
fridge, which she said was too noisy. She sent the retailer a photo of the corner of the fridge, 
showing some  damage  to one corner where the plastic  has cracked and come  away.
When the bank  raised  the section 75 claim with the retailer,  the retailer forwarded Mrs Js 
photos of the fridge and other items  to the bank, but these copies of the photos  were of 
inferior quality to the originals, and it was hard to see what  they showed.  The bank asked 
Mrs J to send  it the photos directly.  There is a dispute about  whether she complied or not. 
That issue  would be relevant to whether the bank is responsible for the delay in dealing  with 
Ref: DRN93473055her claim for a refund  (and I will come  back to that), but it does not affect the banks liability 
for the claim itself.
There is clear  evidence  of damage to the fridge, and I think this must  have  resulted  from a 
heavy impact. On balance, I think that this probably caused damage  to the internal 
components causing  the noise that Mrs J complained  of, and that her complaint about that 
issue is plausible. She raised it immediately, but I cant  see any evidence that the retailer 
ever addressed it. 
However, the kitchen  was not installed by the retailer, but by a third party.  So I must decide 
whether the fridge was already damaged when it was delivered, or whether it was damaged  
during installation. The bank is only liable for damage caused by the retailer.
Mrs J insists that the fridge was already damaged when it arrived.  There  is no evidence to 
support that, but there is no evidence to contradict it either. So I have had to decide what  is 
most likely by deciding  how plausible her account  is.
One argument against Mrs J could be that if she noticed that the fridge was damaged when 
it arrived, then her natural  reaction might  have been  to ask the delivery men to take it back, 
rather than to ignore  the damage and have it installed  anyway.
However, Mrs J has explained that she did not notice the damage until after the delivery men 
had left because  the fridge was still wrapped  in its packaging. The fridge was unwrapped 
when it was about to be installed,  and since she needed a fridge  she had it installed anyway. 
The fridge still worked, it was just very noisy. So I think  that by using  the fridge, instead of 
refusing to have  it installed, she was only mitigating her loss, which  is what  I would expect 
her to do. I also note that it is not in dispute that the delivery men allowed the oil spill to 
happen, so I think  it is not implausible that they could also have  damaged the fridge.
So on the balance  of probabilities, I accept that the retailer, and therefore the bank, is liable 
for the fridge. (I have  also taken into account  that the retailer does not appear to have 
investigated the damage to the fridge, so it lost the opportunity to obtain evidence  that its 
delivery men were not responsible.)
I therefore think Mrs J should be refunded  £295 for the fridge.
the freezer
Mrs J also complained about a freezer which was delivered in the same order.  The fridge  
stands on legs, and she says two of the legs were broken. The freezer  cost £295,  but the 
legs are separate  components, as they are optional  and detachable. They  cost £6 each. So 
I dont think section 75 covers this issue. No evidence has been  provided about this issue, 
and so I dont  think a chargeback would have succeeded.
the worktops
Mrs J bought three wooden worktops for the kitchen, but only two of these were worth more  
than £100 and are covered by section  75. She says she treated them with wood oil supplied 
by the retailer,  and that she followed the instructions correctly, but that this was ineffective 
and the wood has still been  permanently  stained with coffee. She cant  wash  this off, 
because the stains  have seeped into the wood. I have seen a photograph  of this. (She  also 
says that the worktops are the wrong  size, but I dont think that is a breach of contract 
Ref: DRN93473056because the size was advertised when she ordered them,  and theres no evidence  that they 
are not the size advertised.)
By the time Mrs J complained to the bank about  this new issue,  it was far too late to raise a 
chargeback about  it. And although  the worktops are each worth more  than £100, Mrs J 
bought the wood oil for £5 per can, so section 75 would not apply  to the wood  oil. Assuming 
that the coffee  stains happened because either  the worktops or the wood oil were defective, 
there is no way for me to know which item was the defective one, and I cant safely  find that 
they were both defective. It follows that I cant conclude that section 75 applies  to this matter.
the gas hob and the oven
The gas hob was worth  less than £100, so its not covered  by section 75. Mrs J says that it 
exploded, but without some  evidence to support that claim I would not expect the bank  to 
raise a chargeback  about it. She has also complained about the oven, but again,  without 
supporting evidence I cant conclude that a chargeback would have  succeeded.
the photos
Mrs J is adamant that she did send  photos of the fridge and other  defective  items directly to 
Bank of Ireland,  not only to the retailer. She says she sent them in the post, twice.
Bank of Ireland  strongly  denies that it ever received  the photos from Mrs J. Mrs J says that 
the bank either lost the photos  or is lying.
Im afraid that I dont think  I have enough  evidence  about this issue  to fairly decide  what  
happened. I regret that this will come  as a disappointment to Mrs J.
my provisional decision
So my provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this complaint in part. Subject to 
any further representations I receive from the parties  by the date below,  I intend  to order 
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc to pay Mrs J £395.
responses to my provisional  findings
Neither party accepted my provisional decision. In very brief summary, Mrs J insisted that 
the items  which were  returned on 26 May were  never re-delivered.  She reminded me of a 
video she had sent us, which she had filmed  on her phone, of a cancelled delivery in which 
the retailers deliverymen  had driven away with a lorry-load of items. She also maintained  
that she had been entitled to a new dishwasher, and should not have had to settle for a 
repair. 
Bank of Ireland  said there  was no evidence that the retailer  had damaged  the fridge, or that 
it had refused to investigate the fridge. It suggested that Mrs J had refused to return  the 
fridge to the retailer. The bank  was concerned that I appeared to be ordering it to pay Mrs J 
a refund for the fridge and still allowing her to keep the fridge. The fridge  works, and she has 
had full use of it for two years already. The bank also challenged my finding that there  was 
an implied contractual term that the contract would  be performed within a reasonable time.
Ref: DRN93473057my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the video
I have watched  Mrs Js video of the aborted  delivery. It is not clear from the video when  it 
was taken, but I think the most likely date is 26 May 2017, when the whole delivery was 
returned because  some of the items  were  oil-stained. Mrs J says it is a video of the 
attempted re-delivery  (which would be 6 June), but I am not persuaded that that is the case, 
for two reasons.
Firstly, the entry in the retailers contact notes dated  27 May 2017  describes a very similar 
incident to the one I saw on the video. So, as I said in my provisional  decision, I think  that 
entry is about the aborted delivery  on 26 May.  Secondly, some  of the items which were  
supposed to be delivered on 26 May were the fridge, freezer, oven,  and the kitchen 
worktops. Mrs J did receive these items  she has complained about their alleged  defects  
so if they were not delivered on 26 May then they must have been  delivered later.  So I dont 
think the video  shows a second  aborted delivery.
the dishwasher
I cannot add very much  about the dishwasher. Section 24(5) of the Consumer  Rights Act 
2015 means that the retailer was entitled  to one chance to repair the dishwasher before 
Mrs J was entitled to a replacement. The chargeback rules say the same thing. Even if she 
had qualified  for a replacement,  this would only have entitled her to a new dishwasher of the 
same kind,  not a better one.
the fridge
There is no direct evidence  of how or when  the fridge was damaged,  besides Mrs Js own 
evidence that the fridge  turned out to be damaged when it was unpacked. However, I am still 
entitled to accept her evidence, and I do. I am reinforced in my conclusion  by the fact that 
the retailers deliverymen  had already  failed  to deliver goods  in satisfactory condition on 26 
May. (That is not conclusive  proof, of course, but I think it is a fair basis for drawing  an 
inference about their competence.)
I recognise that there is no direct evidence to corroborate  that the retailer declined  to 
investigate the fridge.  I asked both parties  to supply further emails  between Mrs J and the 
retailer, since I have not seen the retailers response to her email complaining about the 
fridge. No new evidence about  this correspondence has been  forthcoming, and so I have 
had to rely on circumstantial evidence. (I did consider whether I should draw an adverse 
inference from either partys failure to provide the requested emails, but I decided that there 
could be innocent explanations for both parties.)
The retailers  engineer  was instructed to investigate the dishwasher but not the fridge, and 
the inspection  took place  a month  after Mrs J reported the fridge. So I think this supports 
Mrs Js case.  I agree  that it is not conclusive evidence, but there is no evidence  that Mrs J 
refused to allow the fridge to be collected  or inspected either. I accept that she could have 
commissioned her own report,  but I can readily  understand why she did not  she would  
Ref: DRN93473058have considered it to be throwing good  money  after bad, and the retailer could have told its 
engineer to inspect  it during his visit. So I dont  think it would be fair to hold this against  her.
When I wrote my provisional decision, I never  intended for Mrs J to have a refund for the 
fridge and still keep the fridge as well. But on re-reading it, I can see how I may have given 
that impression,  because I neglected to say what should happen to the fridge. It should of 
course be collected at no cost to Mrs J. The refund  can be used to buy a new fridge. The 
price of the same kind of fridge has increased by £4, and I think it would  be fair for the bank 
to cover that, so I will order it to pay £299.
I did consider reducing the refund to take into account  Mrs Js use of the fridge.  But I have 
decided not to do that, because she has only had the use of a defective fridge, and the 
matter might have been resolved earlier if the retailers  engineer  had inspected  it in 2017. 
I also think she is entitled to have an undamaged fridge which works properly, and she wont 
be able to buy a new fridge of the same size and quality (without being left out of pocket) if 
I award less.
the delayed delivery
When I wrote that a contract  must  be performed within a reasonable time, I was referring to 
section 23(2)(a) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015.  However, I have read that clause again,  
and I now see that it doesnt actually create an implied term in a contract. Rather, it imposes 
a statutory duty which is independent of the contract. So section 75 of the 1974  Act wouldnt 
apply to a breach of that clause.
However, section 28(3)(a)  says:
(3) Unless there  is an agreed time or period, the contract is to be treated as including  a 
term that the trader must deliver the goods
(a)without  undue delay
The goods  were not delivered without undue delay. Some of the goods were  nearly  
delivered on 26 May, but that delivery  was not completed because some  of the goods were 
stained with oil, and so all of the goods in that consignment  were  returned to the retailer. And 
some of the goods  which were supposed  to be part of that consignment  were  not included, 
and so they were  delivered for the first time on 6 June. So I remain  of the opinion  that there  
was a breach  of contract, and that £100 is fair compensation for that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc to 
pay Mrs J £399, and to arrange the collection of the fridge  at no cost to her.
My final decision concludes this Services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9347305