K820x#14complaint
Ms L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Ms L took out a mortgage in 2003 and she took out PPI to protect  her mortgage monthly  
repayments in 2009.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Ms L didnt  agree with our adjudicators view. Ms L mainly says she thought she had no 
choice but to take out PPI if she had a mortgage. She also told us that if it had been fully 
explained she wouldnt have  taken it out as she wouldve wanted to keep costs  down at the 
time. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Halifax  hasnt been able to provide all the paperwork  that shows how the PPI was taken out. 
But I dont think thats surprising given that the PPI was set up around ten years  ago. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Ms L might be able to remember  about  the sale 
after so long.  
But it looks  as if Ms L had held her mortgage without PPI for around  six years before she 
took it out. So, I think she wouldve understood at the time that it wasnt  a requirement of 
having the mortgage. 
She wouldve had to apply separately to take out the insurance  otherwise her mortgage 
wouldve just continued without it. 
Ms L said shed arranged the PPI during a meeting. Halifax has sent me a record of a 
discussion between Ms L and one of its advisors  which suggests that PPI was discussed 
and recommended to her. And it looks like she decided to apply for this because  Ive seen a 
copy of a welcome letter Halifax sent her which says: Thank you for choosing  optional 
mortgage repayments cover (this is what Halifax called its PPI). Ms L also set up payment 
arrangements for the policy at the same time. 
Ive taken into account that one of Ms Ls main complaints is that keeping  costs down was a 
priority for her at the time. And shes said that if shed realised PPI was optional she wouldnt 
have taken it. But I can see that, in addition to covering her mortgage monthly repayments, 
she bought some extra benefit  to cover other related  household costs as well. So, whilst Im 
sure Ms L is certain about what shes told us, the other information Ive seen doesnt  support 
what she says. 
Ref: DRN90735942On balance, I havent seen enough  information to enable me to say that shes right about 
everything shes told us. Based on all the information Ive seen, I think its likely that Ms L 
decided at the time that she wanted to have the benefits the policy offered and she chose to 
buy it. 
If a financial business  makes a recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps  to 
make sure the cover it recommends is suitable, as well as giving important policy  information  
in a clear way. 
Ms L was eligible for the insurance and the policy terms wouldnt have made it particularly  
difficult for her to make a claim.  Ms L wasnt affected by any of the main  things  the policy 
didnt cover. So as far as I can see, she couldve benefitted from everything  the policy 
offered.
Ms L told us she couldve got sick pay from her employer for up to 2 months  if she was off 
work sick. But PPI still couldve been  useful. It wouldve  paid out for longer than this - up to 
12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness. So the PPI provided  better  
protection than she couldve relied  on getting  through her employer. And it wouldve paid out 
on top of her sick pay, providing Ms L with a useful  benefit at a difficult time  especially if 
she had some extra costs  as a result  of being  sick or disabled. 
Ive taken into account that there  was a possibility of discretionary  sick pay being paid over 
and above this. But Im looking at what Ms L said her contractual  entitlement was  because  
thats all she could  safely rely on when she took out the PPI. Relying on an employer to pay 
sick pay when it doesnt have to isnt as dependable  as taking out PPI which  guarantees a 
monthly benefit in the event of a successful claim.
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Ms L lost her job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed. 
Ms L mentioned that she couldve relied on her parents to help out in the event of money 
problems. But relying on someone else to cover  mortgage monthly repayments isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones  circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Ms L had borrowed a large sum for a long period, secured on her home, so the effects  of not 
keeping up the repayments couldve been serious for her. Ms L couldve made repeated  
claims on the policy, giving her long term protection whilst  she was paying  her mortgage.
Ms L told us she couldve applied for extra  welfare  benefits given her situation at the time.  
But having  PPI meant  she wouldnt have had to face delay and increased mortgage  costs 
before being able to make  a claim. And she wasnt dependent  on the limited assistance  she 
mightve had to rely on if she had needed to apply for help with her mortgage interest 
payments. 
So, although  Ive thought  carefully about  everything  Ms L told us about the other  ways  she 
couldve covered  her mortgage  monthly  repayments, I still think PPI was suitable for her. 
Ref: DRN90735943I dont know if the information  Halifax gave Ms L about the PPI costs was as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it appears that she chose to take out the policy, when she didnt have to 
- and she set up payment  arrangements at her bank to cover the cost. So she seems  to 
have wanted it. The cost was set out in the welcome letter Halifax  sent her, along with 
information about how to cancel if she didnt  want to pay for it. Ive seen nothing that 
suggests the policy (and the amount of cover  she bought)  wasnt affordable for Ms L at the 
time. She couldve cancelled the policy without further cost if her circumstances changed or 
she no longer wanted  to pay to keep the policy  running. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Ms L still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as the 
policy gave her useful  protection in her particular  situation.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms L paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Ms L back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Ms L.
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN9073594