K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited has declined her 
warranty claim for damage to the coating  of her front door. 
background
Miss G had new windows  and a new front door installed at her home in 2010. The supply 
and installation came  with an insurance backed guarantee. Two years  later the installer  
ceased to trade. The insurance backed  guarantee was taken over by Red Sands. In 
October 2018 Miss G made a claim under the guarantee because the coating to her front 
door was peeling away and the handle coating  was tarnished. 
Red Sands  considered the claim and sent out its surveyor to inspect and report on the 
damage. It said that it looked like the outside of the door had been sprayed with a clear 
liquid. When it received the report, Red Sands declined Miss Gs claim. It explained that only 
claims that met the original guarantee terms were covered. It said those terms excluded  
damage caused by misuse and/or  defects  that were  the result of any deterioration in finish. It 
said that as the defects  described by the surveyor were the result of both, it wouldnt be able 
to cover the claim. 
Miss G complained to Red Sands. She said shed never sprayed the front door with a clear 
liquid. She asked that her claim be reconsidered. Red Sands looked  again at the claim but 
didnt change its mind.  It did admit that its surveyor had since  said he couldnt be sure that a 
clear liquid had been used on the door to cause the deterioration. So it said it wouldnt be 
relying on the policy exclusion for damage caused by misuse. But it said the original 
guarantee still excluded cover  for defects that were the result of any deterioration in finish or 
other conditions beyond its control. Red Sands  said it was clear from the available evidence  
that the condition of the door had deteriorated.  
Also it pointed out that its own terms and conditions (which incorporated the original terms) 
excluded any liability for defects that were the result  of climatic conditions such  as sunlight.  
And it pointed out that Miss G had mentioned  when she claimed that sunlight mayve caused  
the damage. So it said the claim remained declined. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Red Sands investigation, Miss G complained to this service.  
Our investigator looked into her complaint and recommended that it was upheld.  She said 
she didnt think the surveyors report (or any of the other evidence) supported the conclusion 
that the door had deteriorated. She said that as the actual cause of damage hadnt  been 
identified, it was unfair to rely on the exclusion cited. She recommended  that Red Sands 
reconsider the claim and pay Miss G compensation of £50 for the inconvenience shed been  
caused. 
Miss G accepted our investigators findings  but Red Sands didnt.  It said it still thought itd 
been correct to decline the claim for wear and tear. It said there was evidence  about the 
cause of damage in the form of the surveyors report where  it said the matt finish  is coming 
off the reveal  and the shiny finish on the furniture. It said Miss Gs claim form also described  
deterioration in the finish. Our investigator disagreed.  She said she wasnt  persuaded that 
matt finish coming off implied there was a deterioration in the finish of the product.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN94327392my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Red Sands is aware, if an insurer seeks to rely on a policy exclusion to defeat  a claim, it 
has the burden of proving the exclusion can be successfully  relied  upon.  
Here the exclusion  Red Sands  now seeks  to rely upon is from the original warranty  terms. It 
states:
(d)this guarantee does not extend to
(iv) Deterioration in finish or other  conditions beyond our control on door and window 
handles, hinges,  letter plates, door knockers  and all other furniture.
Miss Gs claim form describes the damage as:
Peeling away of the coating/door   seems to have occurred where the sun shines most  on 
the door and has got worse over time and had covered the majority of the door.
Handle or coating has tarnished.
The surveyors report says:
The outside of the door, this includes the handle, letterbox and knocker look to have  been  
sprayed with a clear  liquid. The door is peeling and the matt finish is coming off the reveal 
and the shiny  finish on the furniture.
I dont think that Red Sands  has been  able to show  that the exclusion it seeks  to rely on can 
be successfully applied  to defeat  Miss Gs claim.  Its clear  that when the exclusion is quoted 
in full (as I have above) the deterioration  in finish defect the term is trying to exclude applies 
to the door furniture  and not the door itself.  Miss Gs claim is twofold  as can be seen  from 
the claim form (as quoted above). She claims for the peeling  on the actual door and also the 
tarnishing of the handle.  So its not clear to me (even if the exclusion could be applied to the 
defect to the handle) why Red Sands thinks it can be applied to the door itself. I dont agree 
that it was correct to decline the claim for wear  and tear/deterioration. 
Red Sands  has also said that the surveyors report is evidence of the cause of damage.  Im 
unable to agree. The surveyors report (as quoted  above)  is evidence  of the type of 
damage/defect but not the cause. The type of defect is that the door is peeling  and the matt 
finish is coming off. This is a description  of the damage but this doesnt explain whats  
caused it. The only mention by the surveyor of what mightve caused the damage is the 
comment about spraying  clear liquid. But this has since been discounted so cant  be applied.  
So not only do I think that the deterioration in finish exclusion cant be applied to the door 
itself, I also cant agree that the available evidence allows  it to fairly be applied  to the defect 
to the door furniture  either. Thats because the cause of the defect hasnt been established.
Red Sands  has said that its own warranty terms exclude cover for damage/defects caused  
by climatic conditions such  as sunlight. That is, indeed, what  the terms state. But other than 
Miss Gs comment on her claim form, theres no expert evidence that this is what  has 
caused the peeling to her door.  Sunlight is yet to be attributed as the cause of the defect. If 
Red Sands  wants to rely on this exclusion it must  show  it can be reasonably applied.
Ref: DRN94327393I dont think that Red Sands  has fairly  declined Miss Gs claim. For the reasons Ive given 
above, I dont  think it can reasonably rely on the exclusion it has cited  in order to decline the 
claim. I think  it should reconsider Miss Gs claim and pay her compensation  of £50 for the 
inconvenience its claims handling has caused her. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to reconsider Miss Gs claim. It should also pay her compensation of £50 
for the trouble its claims handling has caused  her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9432739