K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs G took the PPI with a mortgage. The cover was free for the first twelve  months.
Mr and Mrs G have said they agreed  to the cover because they were given the impression 
the mortgage wouldnt be approved without it. But I havent seen anything else to make me 
think Nationwide misled  Mr and Mrs G like this. And the sale was well over a decade  ago. 
With those things in mind, what Mr and Mrs G have recalled isnt enough on its own to make  
me think Nationwide misled them like theyve said.
Also, at the time Mr and Mrs G took the PPI I think Nationwide wouldve normally given a 
choice about the PPI. For example, the mortgage  application in use at the time said PPI was 
strongly recommended but didnt say it was compulsory or essential.  In contrast the form 
said arranging buildings insurance  was essential. The form also refers to it being up to the 
customer to decide  on the type and level of cover  needed. 
In Mr and Mrs Gs case, the type of cover chosen  was accident, sickness and unemployment  
cover for Mr G and no cover for Mrs G. The following year Mr and Mrs G signed to change  
Mr Gs cover to accident and sickness cover only.
Taking all this into account, I havent seen enough to make  me think  Nationwide misled 
Mr and Mrs G about  having  to take the cover. And in light of all Ive said above about  the 
time of the sale, I think its likely Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to 
take the PPI and they chose to take it. But I can understand why they might not remember  
this, given how long ago they took out the mortgage.
Nationwide didnt sell the PPI on an advised basis or give Mr and Mrs G personalised advice 
about its suitability  for their circumstances. So Nationwide didnt  have to check the PPI was 
right for Mr and Mrs G. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs G got the information they 
needed to decide if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take the cover   so it looks  to me like they 
wanted this type of cover on Mr G. And from what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  
Mr G wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So Mr and Mrs G 
couldve claimed on the cover if the circumstances arose. 
For a successful unemployment or sickness  claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to twelve 
months. From what Mr and Mrs G have told us, this is longer than Mr Gs work sickness  or 
redundancy pay wouldve lasted. And the PPI benefit wouldve  been paid in addition to those 
Ref: DRN96433702work benefits. So, with all this in mind,  it seems like the policy  benefit  couldve been useful to 
Mr and Mrs G. And it was a benefit designed  to help protect a mortgage  a significant 
liability secured  on Mr and Mrs Gs home. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
Mr and Mrs G off taking  the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Gs points, including what  theyve said about having no 
concerns about  maintaining their repayments  and the PPI not being  of benefit to them  and 
not offering value  for money.  But, for the reasons Ive already  given  and in the light of all Ive 
said above, these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9643370