K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Saga Services Limited  didnt tell him that his car wasnt  covered by his 
motor insurance policy  whilst it was left unattended abroad. Hes also unhappy  that it didnt 
give him enough time to repatriate  the car before  the policys  cancellation  date.
background
Mr R called Saga and he said he gained the impression that he could store his car 
unattended abroad whilst he returned  to the UK. When Mr R spoke to Saga again,  he was 
told that he wouldnt be covered as he wasnt travelling with the car. Saga told his insurer  
and it set a date for cancelling the policy unless the car was repatriated.  Mr R cancelled his 
holiday plans and arranged  to repatriate his car. Saga offered  him £75 compensation for 
giving him unclear information and arranged with the insurer  to extend the cancellation date.  
It didnt think the policy  wording was unclear.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought the 
policy wording was clear that it covered Mr R when he was travelling abroad with the car. He 
thought Mr R hadnt made it clear to Saga in the first call that he was intending  to leave the 
car abroad.  Saga then had to inform  the insurer of this and the insurer  set the cancellation 
date. He thought Saga  had reasonably offered Mr R compensation and persuaded the 
insurer to extend  the cancellation  date. 
Mr R replied that Saga should have extended the cancellation date so that he wouldnt have 
had to change  his holiday arrangements. He asked how long he could leave his car 
unattended abroad before he lost cover.  He said he wasnt able to meet the conditions for 
the policy extension. He asked for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its 
come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R thought it wasnt clear in his policy that his car wouldnt  be covered if it was left 
unattended abroad. But I disagree.  I can see that in the policy  booklet, cover  is provided 
when he is travelling abroad with his car. When Mr R returned home without  his car, he was 
no longer travelling with it and so cover would cease. I can also see that Mr Rs policy 
certificate states that the car is kept at his home  address. I agree with Saga that keeping the 
car abroad  is a different  risk and Mr R should  have informed it of this change.  
 
Mr R thought his motor insurance policy  should state how many  days  a car could be left 
unattended whilst abroad, in the same way that his home insurance policy stated  how many 
days he could leave  his home unattended. But, as Saga  has explained, these matters arent 
comparable. So I dont  think  its reasonable for Saga to do this. 
Mr R said Saga should have extended the cancellation deadline  after he complained.  This 
would have meant that he didnt need to cancel his holiday  arrangements in order  to 
repatriate his car. 
Ref: DRN93892982I think that once Saga  realised that Mr R had left his car unattended  it had to inform his 
insurer. It was the insurers decision to cancel the policy and to set the date for cancellation. 
Saga acted to persuade the insurer to extend this, which I think  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances as it thought it hadnt given Mr R clear information. 
But the insurers decision to extend  the date came after Mr R had changed his arrangements  
to repatriate his car. Hes explained that he had to drive his car to a ferry port and that 
sailings were limited because of the holiday season.  Saga said Mr R hadnt contacted it to 
tell it about his plans so that it could have tried to resolve his complaint sooner. This was 
unfortunate. Even so, Saga responded to his complaint in about  two weeks,  which I think 
was reasonable.  So I cant reasonably hold Saga responsible for Mr R having  to change his 
arrangements to repatriate his car or for the insurers  decision.  
Mr R said he couldnt meet the endorsement added to his policy to keep the car securely 
abroad. But I think the insurer is responsible for this endorsement as it needs to decide the 
risks its prepared to take. So I cant reasonably hold Saga responsible for this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9389298