K822xcomplaint
Mrs H, represented by a claims management company (CMC),  complains that investment 
advice provided  to her by Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers limited  was 
unsuitable, primarily because the recommendations involved too much risk.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Hs complaint,  a copy  of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I felt that the investment  advice  given to Mrs H 
carried an unsuitable level of risk. I thought she should therefore be compensated by way of 
a comparison of the performance  of the recommended investments  with that of our cautious 
benchmark.
Neither Mrs Hs CMC  nor Chase de Vere made any comments in response to my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As no further comments have been made 
in response to my provisional decision,  I remain of the view that the complaint should be 
upheld. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs H as close to the position she would probably  now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.  
I take the view that Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs Hs circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Chase de Vere do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, Chase de Vere must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Hs investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Chase de Vere should also pay interest  as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN93989032investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
£23,000 lump 
sum and the 
£50 monthly 
investment  
surrenderedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Chase de Vere  
should use the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Chase de Vere totals all those payments  and deducts that figure  at the end instead  of 
deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs H wanted capital  growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mrs Hs risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared  
Ref: DRN93989033to take a small level of risk to attain her investment  objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mrs H into that position. It does not mean  that 
Mrs H would have invested  50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker  fund. Rather,  I consider  this a reasonable  compromise  that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mrs H could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited should provide details of its 
calculation to Mrs H in a clear, simple format.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Chase de Vere  
Independent Financial Advisers Limited should pay the amount calculated  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93989034COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs H, represented by a claims  management  company (CMC), complains that investment  advice 
provided to her by Chase  de Vere Independent Financial Advisers  limited was unsuitable,  primarily 
because the recommendations  involved  too much  risk.
background
At the time of the advice in 2000,  Mrs H was in her early  40s, single (but about  to be married) and 
working full time with a salary of £11,500,  plus bonus.  She had deposit savings of around £25,500 
and a maxi ISA holding  around £7,000. She also held a couple of endowment policies.
Mrs H was initially advised  to invest a £23,000 lump sum into three unit trusts,  and then a month later 
to start making monthly contributions of £50 into a separate unit trust. She surrendered all the 
investments gradually over the course of the following eight years. 
Chase de Vere didnt uphold the complaint  as it felt the advice had been suitable  and affordable,  and 
that Mrs H had been given enough information about  the investments  and funds. 
The complaint was referred to this service, where  our investigator reached a different conclusion. She 
felt the complaint should be upheld. She said, in brief:
There was no evidence of how Mrs Hs balanced attitude to risk had been determined and 
she didnt think it was likely to be an accurate reflection. 
The recommended funds featured too much  foreign exposure and emphasis on equity  
performance. 
Although the advice  was diversified across several funds,  the investigator wasnt persuaded 
that Mrs H wouldve  understood the level of risk of the recommended  funds. 
There was limited information recorded about  Mrs Hs expenditure  and she was left with only 
£3,000 as an emergency fund. 
Mrs H didnt have the necessary knowledge or experience and the investments didnt  reflect 
her likely risk appetite. 
The investigator suggested  that Mrs H should be compensated by way of a comparison with our 
standard cautious  risk benchmark. 
Chase de Vere didnt accept  the investigators view.  It said, in brief:
Mrs H had signed the documentary evidence  to confirm she had a balanced risk profile.  
The suitability  letter issued to her detailed the features and risks of the investments. 
There was nothing to suggest Mrs H wouldnt have understood the advice and there was no 
reason for the investigator to reach that conclusion considering the documentary evidence. 
Most of the funds were  invested in UK equities. 
Mrs H had no financial difficulties  
Chase de Vere also raised concerns about the length of time it had taken Mrs H to make  a complaint, 
many years after the investments had all been  surrendered.
The investigator wasnt  persuaded  to change her opinion, so the matters been referred to me to 
review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN93989035The £23,000 that Mrs H was advised  to invest in October 2000  was split across three funds;
£5,000 - Framlington  Unit Trust (New Leaders Fund)
£5,000 - Sarasin Unit Trust (Equistar GB Fund)
£13,000 - Rothschild Five Arrows Fund of Funds Unit Trust (UK Capital  Growth  Strategy)
There was then a further recommendation  made in November 2000 that she should commit  £50 per 
month into an Invesco Unit Trust in the European Growth Fund.
Given the passage of time,  theres  little independent information available about how these funds 
were constituted in 2000. But the suitability  letters indicate  a heavy reliance upon equities  in 
particular, foreign  stocks.  
It was recorded that Mrs H had a balanced approach to investment risk. Theres no documentary 
evidence to support how this was determined,  so it would  seem  likely that this was through  discussion 
with the adviser.  Nevertheless,  it strikes me as inconsistent with 
Mrs Hs circumstances at the time. She wasnt a high earner and had little in the way of apparent 
investment experience. The cash she had on deposit had come from an inheritance, at least in part. 
She also had some endowments that she was continuing to contribute to. And there was the maxi 
ISA, which  the fact find suggests was invested in an international fund. 
This strikes me as quite  unusual. And it may be that the way in which this maxi ISA was invested is 
what drove the categorisation of Mrs H as balanced. There is reference in the suitability  letter  to the 
new recommendations adding further international exposure to Mrs Hs existing portfolio.
But presuming she already  had £7,000 invested  in international equities, or assets of a similar  risk 
rating, I dont  think it appears consistent with her circumstances to then place 90% of her savings  at 
the level of risk associated with the three funds noted above. And the recommendation doesnt even 
appear to have left her with the £3,000 of liquidity that it was noted in the fact find that she required. 
And further to that, there  was then an even greater commitment made to international investment only 
a few weeks later,  with the £50 per month investment in the European  Growth fund.  
So, overall,  Im unable to conclude that it was suitable to recommend  that Mrs H invest  so heavily  at 
the level of risk associated with the four funds in question. While it was noted  that she was looking at 
a five-year term of investment, she was due to get married and had an aim of setting  up a business 
with her partner.  So, there were likely to be changes in her circumstances in the short  to medium term
As such, I think the redress suggested by the investigator  a comparison of the investments with our 
cautious benchmark  is a reasonable way to compensate Mrs H. I think  it seems that, with £7,000  
already invested at quite high risk, any further commitment  wouldve been more suitably  invested in a 
cautious manner. Theres also an argument that, regardless of risk rating, too much of Mrs Hs money  
was invested. But as she doesnt appear to have had any affordability issues,  I think  its reasonable to 
make the comparison with the whole  amount invested. 
Finally, I note Chase de Vere has continued to challenge  our jurisdiction to consider the merits  of Mrs 
Hs complaint, as it believes it has been brought too late, as significant falls in the value of the 
investment in the early years and upon surrender ought to have alerted her to a problem.  
My colleague has already considered  this matter and issued a decision that found  the complaint to be 
within our jurisdiction. This was, in short, on the basis that Mrs H wouldve been aware that the 
investments could lose value and they did so at times  of serious economic recession. Further, several 
withdrawals over the years wouldve made assessing any losses more  difficult. So, she wouldnt 
necessarily have been aware of issues  of potential unsuitability until she spoke with her CMC much 
later. 
Ref: DRN93989036Having reviewed  the case  in full, I see no reason to reach any other conclusion on our jurisdiction 
then that reached  previously. Im satisfied were  able to consider the merits  of the complaint. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further comments I receive, Im currently of the view that the 
complaint should be upheld, and Mrs H be compensated by Chase de Vere  Independent Financial 
Advisers limited based on a comparison  of the performance of all the recommended  investments with 
our cautious  benchmark. 
Ill set out full details of this in my final decision, should my view remain the same. 
Ref: DRN9398903