K821x#15complaint
Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited  (trading as Torch Wealth Management - Torch) 
advised Mr C to transfer his existing pension.  Mr C has complained  about  that advice and 
the portfolio of investments Torch recommended.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in the provisional 
decision I issued in April 2019  (copy attached). 
Torch didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary, it said:
It had provided copies of two reports carried  out at the time by an independent  party 
comparing the costs  of the existing pension with the SIPP.  One of these was without  
the addition of advisor fees and showed that the SIPP would provide higher returns.
The second report included  its adviser  fees, and this showed  that the SIPP would 
need to achieve additional annual growth between 0.3% and 0.08% to match the 
returns under the existing plan.
The recommended  fund was medium risk and it was reasonable to expect a higher 
level of return in the long term. So it was reasonable to expect that such  a fund could 
out-perform the existing plan by at least 0.08% a year. 
The report also confirms that adviser  fees for the existing plan havent been taken 
into account. This is irrefutable evidence that the new plan was cheaper.  
Also, if Torch had taken over servicing  of Mr Cs plan it would have  charged  its 
ongoing fees of 0.75% - increasing costs even further. So Mr C would have been 
worse off. 
It believes my comment  about  the potential use of non-mainstream investments in a 
SIPP is an unfair generalisation. Theres no evidence Torch  intended  to access  such 
investments, which were unsuitable  for Mr C anyway. 
Ive also said there  was no reason why 10% of Mr Cs fund should remain  in cash. 
But the evidence  from the existing provider  shows  this to be a fact. If Torch had 
advised Mr C to change  his investments in his existing plan, it would have  charged  
him a fee as noted  above. So it was not in Mr Cs interests, on the basis of cost, to 
stay in his existing plan.
Ive proposed using  the FTSE UK Private Investors Stock Market Global Growth  
Index as a way of assessing the potential value  of Mr Cs fund if he hadnt been  
advised to switch. This is because his previous pension provider is unable  to 
calculate a current  value. In other identical cases, the ombudsman has ruled  that the 
existing investment fund should be used, with an allowance for the amount which  
wasnt invested. Torch  believes this is a fairer approach and not reliant  on what is in 
effect a largely  theoretical and inaccessible index. 
Ive said theres no evidence Mr C was unhappy  with his current  plan,  which was 
assessed to be a low medium degree  of risk. But while I disagree with Torchs  
assessment of Mr Cs attitude  to risk, I havent  said what  would have been more 
appropriate for him. So using  his existing fund as a means  of assessing loss would 
be reasonable.
Although Mr C has made a separate claim to FSCS for the stockbrokers actions,  its 
important to remember that if the stockbroker had kept to its mandate Mr C would 
have gained significantly and not through this inconvenience or suffered a loss. 
Mr C confirmed he had nothing further to add. 
Ref: DRN98253142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Torch has made a number of comments about the comparative  costs of Mr C 
staying in his original pension plan or switching to the SIPP. It says it arranged for two 
reports to be completed,  one of which included adviser fees.   
Ive revisited the file of papers Torch sent us, and I can only find one report  although this is 
copied twice in the file. So its possible Torch omitted to send us both reports. But Ive also 
considered the points  Torch has made,  and the arguments it has put forward based  on the 
reports. 
Torch seems to accept that when adviser  fees were taken into account, the SIPP  showed  
lower returns that if the original plan had been left in place. So it does seem  that the overall 
charges of the SIPP were higher. But even taking Torchs assumptions into account, the 
difference was only marginal.  
In any event, from the evidence Ive seen  the primary reason for advising Mr C to transfer his 
pension was based on Torchs confidence  in the Aggressive Model Portfolio managed  by the 
stockbroker. It appears that this provided  the starting point for the advice. Mr C could only 
access this investment by transferring away from his current plan. Torch said that the 
portfolio had anticipated annual growth of 8.5%.  But it had no established track record,  and 
there was no realistic way of predicting what returns it might achieve.  
But as Ive explained in my provisional  decision, the Aggressive Model Portfolio  wasnt 
suitable for Mr C. As such, the primary justification for the transfer falls away. Torch  says my 
reference to using non-mainstream investments is unfair, as it was never intended to 
recommend these to Mr C. But in this section of my provisional decision I was considering 
various reasons  why a SIPP might be recommended. I accept that such  high risk 
investments wouldnt  be suitable for Mr C, and so this again  wouldnt provide a reason for 
him to transfer to a SIPP.  
Torch says the Aggressive Model  portfolio was a medium risk investment. But given the 
composition of the assets it was expected to contain, I dont think  this is correct.  And I note 
the suitability report said that the portfolio was in line with Mr Cs highest medium attitude  to 
risk. I explained in my provisional decision why I wasnt convinced by this assessment. 
Mr C approached Torch, or possibly  was introduced to Torch, seeking advice on whether his 
current pension plan was still relevant.  So this should have been  the starting point for any 
advice. But it seems  that, because of Torchs belief in the prospects of the Aggressive Model 
portfolio, the advice  was always angled towards  this investment. On the whole, I dont think  
Torch fully considered  the options  available to Mr C if he were  to remain in his current  plan. 
Torch says that if Mr C had remained in his plan and it had acted as his adviser, it would 
have charged him ongoing fees of 0.75%  a year, increasing his costs further. But Mr C 
signed the fee agreement  on the same  date as the SIPP application form. So it seems he 
would have understood that any fees applied by Torch were in relation to this. Whether or 
not Mr C would have  agreed to the same fee arrangement had he remained in his plan 
would have had to be negotiated. But this isnt a route Torch pursued. 
Ref: DRN98253143But the key point is that I dont think Torch took proper account of whether Mr C could have 
remained in his existing  plan. As I noted previously, 10% of his pension was held in cash.  
Torch says this was a fact, and asks why Ive questioned this. But it remains  my view that it 
was unusual for such a large percentage of his fund to be held in this way rather than 
invested for growth. This is something  that should  have been  considered  at the time.  
Torch had been engaged  as independent  financial  advisers  and been  tasked by Mr C to look 
into whether his plan was still relevant,  and so was able to take this into account. But in my 
view, it failed to do so. 
For all the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the advice Mr C was given was suitable  for 
him. 
Ive also considered the points Torch has made about the method of redress  I intended  to 
apply. 
Torch says Ive proposed  using the FTSE UK Private Investors Stock  Market  Global Growth 
Index as a way of assessing the potential value  of Mr Cs fund if he hadnt been  advised to 
switch. This isnt correct  - I propose  to use the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total 
Return Index. But I note Torch suggests  that it would be more appropriate to use the fund in 
which Mr Cs existing plan was invested  at the time of the switch. It says this method has 
been applied  in other complaints referred  to us. Im not persuaded by this argument, and Ill 
explain why. 
While most  of Mr Cs plan was invested in one fund, 10% wasnt.  As Ive noted above, he 
should have been given  advice about  this. Im not able to say with any certainty how Mr C 
would have invested his pension had he been  given suitable advice. For instance, if hed 
remained invested in the current fund and at the same level,  or would have moved  to other  
funds to reflect a different  investment approach. So I think  its fair and reasonable to use a 
method that takes account of the type of risk he was prepared to take, and the sort of assets 
he would  have held.  In my view,  the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index 
achieves this. It provides  a reasonable proxy for the type of returns Mr C could  have 
received. And its worth noting  that the index  assumes that part of the fund will be held in 
cash. 
Because the stockbroker didnt invest Mr Cs pension  following the switch  in line with the 
mandate for the Aggressive Model  portfolio, I think its fair to use a method that takes 
account of the position  had the portfolio  been  invested appropriately. The benchmark the 
performance of the portfolio was measured against  was the FTSE UK Private  Investors 
Stock Market Global  Growth  Index.  And so I think this provides a reasonable proxy for the 
type of returns his pension could have  achieved had the portfolio been  invested in line with 
the mandate. 
Torch says the indices to be used in the calculation are inaccessible. I dont agree. But if 
Torch has any problems  with undertaking the calculation, it can engage an independent  
business that will be able to carry this out. 
In the circumstances, it remains my view that the method of redress I proposed  in my 
provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable way of establishing  what  loss, if any, 
Mr C has suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice he was given. 
Ref: DRN98253144fair compensation
Torch should undertake  the following:
1.Calculate the value  of Mr Cs original pension plan as at the date of my final decision 
had it been invested  in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return 
Index. 
2.Calculate the value  as at the date of my final decision  of the portion of the pension 
fund invested  in the Aggressive Model Portfolio had it been invested  in line with the 
FTSE UK Private  Investors Stock Market Global  Growth Index.
3.Establish the portion of the pension fund which remained in cash as at the date of my 
final decision. 
The loss is 1  (2 + 3). But as £20,245 was transferred into SIPP 2, this should  be treated as 
a withdrawal from both 1 and 2 above as at the date of the transfer. 
I should make Mr C aware that its possible the above calculation may not show a financial 
loss. If there is a loss, Torch should  pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension  plan 
if it would  conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Torch is unable to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Torch should pay any loss within 28 days of being  notified of Mr Cs acceptance of my final 
decision. If its paid later, Torch should  add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of payment.
Separate from and additional  to the above,  Torch should pay Mr C the sum of £500 for the 
trouble and upset  hes been caused by the advice to transfer his pension  benefits. 
Ref: DRN98253145my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited to compensate 
Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98253146COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Economic Financial  Solutions IFA Limited (trading  as Torch Wealth  Management  - Torch) advised  
Mr C to transfer his existing  pension. Mr C has complained about  that advice and the portfolio  of 
investments Torch recommended.
background
At the time of the advice in 2015,  Mr C was aged 48, married, and had four dependants. He was self-
employed, but his salary  wasnt recorded. His only savings and investments were £2,000 held in cash 
jointly with his wife. He had a personal  pension, valued  at just over £61,000.
Mr Cs risk profile was assessed as very high (9 on a scale of 1-10). However, the suitability letter 
issued in July 2015 said that Mr C selected risk profile 7. As such, his attitude  to risk changed to 
highest medium.
Torch recommended a transfer of the personal  pension into a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP). 
Torch said the SIPP was cheaper that Mr Cs existing  plan. All the transfer value would  be invested by 
a stockbroker, under a discretionary management  arrangement. Torch recommended  the 
stockbrokers Aggressive  Model Portfolio as being suitable for Mr C. The transfer took place and 
£64,282 was transferred into the SIPP.  Of this, £60,221 was passed to the stockbroker to invest. The 
remainder was placed in a cash account.  
Between October 2015 and March 2016, Torch was in communication with the stockbroker and the 
SIPP provider over concerns  that the stockbroker wasnt investing in line with the agreed model 
portfolio. 
In November 2016, Mr C referred  his complaint to us. Torch rejected  the complaint. It said the 
portfolio it recommended was suitable for Mr C and in line with his risk profile. Torch argued that 
Mr Cs losses  were the result of the stockbrokers  actions. Specifically, that the stockbroker  invested 
in assets  that did not meet the criteria  set out in the Aggressive  portfolios factsheet. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint,  and thought it should  succeed.  He said:
Mr C had almost  no savings or investments and the adviser failed to record his annual 
income. Mr C had a very limited capacity to afford any loss to his pension.
The personal pension invested in a low to medium risk fund. It averaged a growth  rate of 
6.7% a year over the past five years. Torch placed Mr C in the Aggressive  portfolio, which 
had no previous performance record. The portfolios  factsheet from the time said it invested in 
overseas equities (90%)  and cash (10%).  So Torch had placed Mr Cs pension  fund into a 
high risk portfolio, which  was a risk he couldnt afford to take.
The SIPP  was not cheaper than the personal  pension, and Torchs research  had shown  that a 
stakeholder plan was a better option. It also showed that a transfer into a personal  pension 
with another provider would have provided a higher  fund value at retirement than either the 
existing plan or the SIPP.  
The personal pension offered similar  levels of flexibility and the ability to draw income while 
remaining invested. It offered a wide range  of investments, as well as the option of 
discretionary fund management. So there was no need  to transfer into a similar product.
But while the adjudicator thought  the advice was unsuitable, he also recognised  that the stockbroker 
failed to invest  in line with its portfolios  mandate. The adjudicator proposed a method of 
Ref: DRN98253147compensating Mr C which took this into account. But having carried out a calculation on this basis, it 
showed that if Mr C had remained in the previous pension, he would currently be worse off compared 
to being in the SIPP. So he hadnt suffered a loss as a result of the transfer and investment advice.
However, not all money transferred into the SIPP was given to the stockbroker to invest. Some 
remained in the SIPPs cash  account to cover commission and charges. Initially, the adjudicator 
considered that this amount would have been invested, had it remained in the personal pension.  
But further investigation showed that the personal pension had a similar cash account.  At the time of 
the transfer, this held a higher sum than that which remained in the SIPPs  cash account. As both 
amounts would not have earned investment growth, the adjudicator thought  Mr C hadnt suffered any 
financial loss from Torchs  actions. 
Torch made an offer of £500  for the inconvenience  it had caused Mr C, which  the adjudicator  thought 
was reasonable.
 Mr C didnt wish to accept the offer and asked for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
The matter has now been passed to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  whats fair and reasonable,  Im required to take 
into account  relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules,  guidance and standards, relevant  
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the 
time.
Im aware Mr C has also complained about the stockbrokers actions.  Thats been  the subject  of a 
separate claim by Mr C which is now with the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
Although I need to take into account the interaction between Torch and the stockbroker, to avoid any 
doubt I should  stress  that my decision  here concerns  Mr Cs complaint about Torchs actions  and the 
extent to which they have contributed to any losses Mr C may have incurred.
In my view,  there are three  specific questions I must answer in order to determine  whether Torch 
acted fairly and reasonably  when it advised Mr C to move his pension funds  to the SIPP and invest 
them in the stockbrokers Aggressive Model  Portfolio.  This also assists me in determining whether  the 
transfer was in Mr Cs best interests  and if not, what I consider he ought to have been advised  to do 
instead:
firstly, was the level of risk of the recommended investment the correct  one for Mr C? 
secondly, was the new arrangement more expensive  or less expensive than Mr Cs previous  
pension arrangement?
and thirdly, what alternatives were open to Mr C to meet his objectives? 
was the level  of risk of the recommended investment suitable  for Mr C?
Mr C completed  a risk profile questionnaire,  in which he was asked to agree or disagree with a 
number of statements. Torch  used  this to assess Mr Cs attitude to risk. He was found to be 7 on a 
scale of 1 to 10. This was described as highest medium. 
Im not convinced  I can place much weight  on this assessment.  Mr C doesnt seem to have been a 
sophisticated investor, nor had much experience  of investments generally.  I also note Mr C indicated 
in the questionnaire that small/medium losses could be tolerated. In my view, this isnt compatible  with 
a wish to take a highest medium degree of risk. 
Ref: DRN98253148On the whole,  I dont think its likely Mr C would have wanted  to put his pension benefits at significant  
risk. The fund hed built up in the personal  pension  plan represented his total retirement provision at 
that time.  
Im also mindful  that Mr C doesnt seem to have had any other investments or savings. According to 
the information Torch gathered, he only had £2,000 held jointly with his wife in cash/deposits. So he 
seems to have had limited  capacity for loss. 
Overall, I dont think the Aggressive Model  Portfolio was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr C. The stockbrokers factsheet  for the portfolio  said it would  primarily invest  in ETFs [Exchange 
Traded Funds], quality corporate bonds, cash and other passive investments. The stockbroker used 
a risk scale of 1 to 10 and said it would  anticipate the collection of funds within the portfolio to expose 
an investor to a level of risk in the range  of 6-7. It said the actual asset allocation as at May 2015 was 
90% international  equities  and 10% UK government debt. In my view, the portfolio  posed more risk 
than Mr C was prepared, or in a position, to take. 
was the new arrangement more or less expensive than Mr Cs previous pension?
Torch recommended the transfer into the SIPP, in part, because it said this had lower charges than 
Mr Cs existing plan. Ive not seen evidence  to support this. 
There is an illustration for the SIPP, which is based on a transfer value of around £21,000. This shows 
the possible fund values at retirement  assuming various growth rates. But Ive not seen evidence 
Torch carried out a proper comparison of the charges for the two arrangements.  
The suitability report Torch  issued said it had demonstrated  that the charges  for Mr Cs current  plan 
were more expensive than the SIPP.  But these dont seem to have taken  account of Torchs  advice 
fees, nor the fees which would be charged by the stockbroker. 
In the circumstances,  I dont think the SIPP  was less expensive.  
what alternatives were open  to Mr C to meet his objectives?
The suitability report notes that Mr C had sought advice  to see if his existing  plan was still relevant 
and if there  was any merit in moving to a different provider. But there doesnt seem to be any 
suggestion he was unhappy with his current plan. I note that the fund he was investing in had 
achieved average growth of 6.79% over the previous five years. The fund was said to present  a low 
medium degree of risk. 
Mr C was advised  to transfer to a new plan rather  than remain with his existing provider because this 
would be cheaper. But as Ive explained  above,  I disagree with this assessment.  
A further reason for transferring into the SIPP was because of the extra  flexibility  such  plans offer.  
The suitability report refers  to the Pension Freedoms which the Government  were introducing. But 
Mr C was still several years away from when he would  be likely to start taking his pension  he 
thought he wouldnt  be able to do so before age 65. So there was little prospect of him being able to 
take advantage of the new freedoms in the short term. 
Also, while a SIPP will generally give access to a wider range of investment funds, Im not convinced 
this was particularly relevant  to Mr C. I find it unlikely he would have wanted to invest in the type of 
non-mainstream investments SIPPs  providers  sometimes allow.  Nor do I think  this type of investment 
would have been suitable  for Mr C. 
The option of remaining in Mr Cs current plan was discounted  by Torch. But I think  this was a 
reasonable approach that should have  been  considered. As Ive noted, there seems to have been no 
obvious reason to change his current investment  strategy. But if this had been thought  appropriate, 
Ref: DRN98253149its likely  that the provider would have  had a range of funds available which Torch  could  have 
recommended. 
in summary
For all of the reasons  set out above, I dont think Torch acted fairly  and reasonably  when it advised  
Mr C to move his pension to the new SIPP  and to invest in the stockbrokers Aggressive  Model 
Portfolio. My view is that, suitably  advised, Mr C would  have remained in his existing plan. 
Ive therefore considered how Mr C should be compensated for the unsuitable advice, and its here 
that I depart from the adjudicators conclusions.   
Mr Cs existing pension seems to have  been  a straightforward personal pension plan. Theres no 
obvious reason why around 10% of the fund should be held in cash. Plans  of this type would normally 
have all, or very nearly all, their monies invested  in funds designed  to provide a return. Holding  money  
in cash  would  usually only be a temporary measure. 
 
Torch was acting as independent financial  advisers  and could have advised Mr C on how to invest his 
existing plan.  I think  suitable  advice would have been for Mr Cs pension fund to be fully invested to 
maximise his investment opportunities. I have therefore taken this into account  when considering 
what would be fair compensation in this case.
Im also aware  Mr C transferred part of his pension  fund (£20,425) to another  SIPP around June 2016 
following advice from a new financial adviser. Ill refer to this as SIPP 2. From  that point the 
investment of SIPP 2 was the responsibility of the new adviser, and Torch  should not be liable for any 
losses incurred in relation to this part of Mr Cs pension. Ive therefore also taken this into account.  
I have set out how I think  Mr C should be compensated below. 
fair compensation
The stockbroker was instructed to invest using  its Aggressive  Model Portfolio.  Mr C has complained 
that the stockbroker  didnt actually invest the funds in line with that instruction,  and that as a result  he 
suffered further losses. Torch too has said the majority of the investments the stockbroker made  bore 
no resemblance to Torchs  judgement of the type of investment which  was suited to Mr C. As I said 
above, theres  a separate claim  against the stockbroker and its now in the hands of the FSCS. I make 
no findings on the stockbrokers actions in this decision.
My provisional  conclusion here is that the transfer to the new SIPP and subsequent intended 
investment in the Aggressive Model Portfolio, as recommended by Torch, wasnt suitable for Mr C in 
the first place. In my view, Mr C should  have  remained in his original pension plan and invested in a 
fund (or funds) that suited  his attitude  to risk. 
Mr Cs original pension provider has told us it is unable to calculate  what  his plan would  have been 
worth had he not transferred  into the SIPP.  Further, Mr C may have been advised to invest  in different 
funds. In the circumstances, I think  it would  be fair to calculate the value of Mr Cs original plan by 
reference to the FTSE UK Private  Investor Income Total Return  Index. 
The FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total  Return Index  is a mix of diversified  indices  representing 
different asset  classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. At the time of the transfer (when it 
was called  the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income Total Return  Index) its asset allocation  was: 35% UK 
equities, 17.5% international equities, 32.5% bonds,  5% cash,  5% commercial  property and 5% 
hedge funds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  I think this provides a reasonable proxy for the type of returns  that would have been 
achieved with suitable advice. 
Ref: DRN982531410Following the transfer,  most of the pension monies were due to be managed  by the stockbroker in line 
with the Aggressive Model Portfolio. The adjudicator suggested that a reasonable proxy for the aims 
of the Aggressive Model Portfolio would  be the FTSE  UK Private Investors  Stock Market  Global 
Growth Index. This was the stockbrokers stated  benchmark for the Aggressive Model Portfolio. I 
consider this to be a fair and reasonable method for determining likely investment  performance had 
the portfolios stated objectives and investment strategy been followed by the stockbroker. The FTSE 
UK Private Investors Stock Market Global  Growth Index has two versions   a total income version  
and a capital version. The redress calculations should use the total income version  of the index.
Subject to my final decision remaining the same, Torch should therefore undertake the following:
4.Calculate the value of Mr Cs original  pension plan as at the date of my final decision had it 
been invested in line with the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total Return  Index. 
5.Calculate the value as at the date of my final decision of the portion of the pension  fund 
invested in the Aggressive Model Portfolio had it been invested  in line with the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Stock Market Global  Growth Index.
6.Establish the portion  of the pension  fund which  remained in cash as at the date of my final 
decision. 
The loss is 1  (2 + 3). But as £20,245 was transferred  into SIPP 2, this should be treated  as a 
withdrawal from both 1 and 2 above as at the date of the transfer. 
I should  make  Mr C aware that its possible  the above calculation may not show a financial loss. If 
there is a loss, Torch should  pay into Mr C's pension  plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Torch is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr C's pension plan,  it should pay that amount direct  
to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided a taxable income.  
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr C's actual or expected marginal  rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr C would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Separate from and additional to the above, Torch should pay Mr C the sum of £500 for the trouble 
and upset hes been  caused by the advice to transfer his pension benefits.  
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited 
should pay the compensation set out above.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9825314