K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mr B are complaining about  a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy they 
took with a mortgage in 2003  from Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 20 December 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  it is 
a complaint that we can consider, but that I didn't think the complaint should be upheld. 
Nationwide and Mr H and Mr B both replied. Neither  party had anything further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further for me to consider I confirm the findings in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr H and Mr Bs complaint and dont find that any 
compensation is payable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019..
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN99233202copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr H and Mr B are complaining  about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy they took with a 
mortgage in 2003 from Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
background
The policy was free for the first 12 months, after which Mr H and Mr B cancelled  the policy. They say 
that even  though the policy was marketed as being free to the consumer, there must have been an 
implicit cost that they paid for, and it is that cost they would like refunded. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint  and concluded that Mr H and Mr B hadnt paid 
anything for the PPI so hadnt  suffered any financial loss for Nationwide  to compensate them  for. As 
such, the adjudicator  didn't think it was a complaint for this service  to consider.
Mr H and Mr B disagreed  and didn't think their concerns had been addressed. As the complaint 
remains unresolved, it has been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
is this a complaint we can consider? 
The adjudicator concluded  that as Mr H and Mr B hadnt paid anything  for the PPI, and hadnt 
suffered any financial loss, then we couldnt look at it. But I disagree.
Its clear Mr H and Mr B did take the policy   albeit they didn't pay anything  for it for the first 12 
months and then cancelled it after that. But just because  they didn't pay any premiums, they still had 
the policy,  and could have  benefitted from it if they had made a successful claim.
So I dont agree  with the adjudicator and provisionally find that this complaint is one that we can 
consider.
the complaint issues 
At the time of the sale, both Mr H and Mr B were financially secure, had excellent  employee benefits  if 
they couldnt work and had plenty of savings they could  have relied  upon. They say they had no need 
for the policy so it was effectively mis-sold  to them  and would  like the cost paid back to them. 
Mr H and Mr B have argued that the PPI was bundled in with their mortgage - that an insurer wouldnt  
give a policy away for nothing in return. The implication being  that the cost to the business if either  Mr 
H or Mr B had to claim on the policy  the monthly benefit was £1,450  would have been potentially 
too onerous for the cost not to have  been  recouped in some way. 
Mr H and Mr B have referred to Nationwides information booklet and that it says  
Your premiums are payable monthly and are due for payment on the first day of each 
month...We will pay the premiums to the insurer.
Because of this, Mr H and Mr B say Nationwide must have paid the premiums to the insurer, 
otherwise the policy would have lapsed, so this would have impacted  on the cost of the mortgage  to 
Mr H and Mr B. So effectively, one way or another, the cost of the PPI was bundled in with the cost of 
the mortgage and ultimately financed by Mr H and Mr B. 
Ref: DRN99233203As the adjudicator  said, we expect all businesses to check their records for any payments a consumer 
made for PPI. And I am satisfied that Nationwide  has carried out the checks I would have expected to 
see and has confirmed that Mr H and Mr B were not charged anything for the policy. 
I am also satisfied that the PPI was a separate product and not bundled in with the cost of the 
mortgage. This service wouldnt expect or ask for a business to justify  or explain its business  model  to 
us such  as how it offers  a free product. We look at any complaint on its own individual merits  and its 
own particular circumstances.
If we find a product has been mis-sold to a consumer  we would expect  the business  to put the 
consumer in the financial  position they would have been in, but for the mis-sale.  
Nationwide has said it didn't give Mr H and Mr B any advice to take the policy so it was for them to 
choose whether they wanted  to take it. Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application  and its clear  
Mr H and Mr B decided to take it as they completed the relevant section. 
The PPI was a separate product to the mortgage and if Mr H and Mr B hadnt taken  it, the cost of the 
mortgage (and any interest rate charged) would  have been the same as if they did take it. The cost of 
the PPI had no bearing  on the interest rate charged on, or the cost of the mortgage product.  The PPI 
was a standalone product  and sold separately from the mortgage itself. 
So overall based on what Ive seen so far, I am satisfied that Mr H and Mr B were  not charged for the 
PPI for the first 12 months and cancelled it after that. So they have not been financially disadvantaged  
as a result.  As Mr H and Mr B have not lost out financially,  there isnt any compensation to be 
considered. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Mr H and Mr Bs complaint is one that this service  can consider.
But, because of what I have  said above about  the merits of the complaint they have brought  to us, I 
provisionally dont find that any compensation is due to Mr H and Mr B.
Please could  Nationwide Building Society and Mr H and Mr P send me any further information or 
comments to look at by 20 January 2019. After that, Ill issue  my final decision. 
Ref: DRN9923320