K822xcomplaint
Miss P complains  that TSB Bank plc sent a replacement debit card to the wrong  address 
twice which  meant she didnt have one for nearly  a month.
background
Miss Ps debit card expired at the end of August 2018. A new card was automatically  
ordered in early July 2018  but this was sent to her old address and Miss P didnt receive it. 
So she contacted TSB and another card was ordered in early September.  This was also sent 
to her old address.  Miss P didnt  receive a replacement  card until around 19 September.
When Miss P first contacted TSB it paid her £28 compensation. But it didnt check  her 
address before sending the replacement  card.  When Miss P complained  again  when she 
didnt receive that card,  TSB reopened her complaint  but hadnt responded before  she 
referred her complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator thought TSB should pay Miss P an extra  £122  compensation to make the 
total she would receive  £150. TSB agreed  to this but Miss P didnt think this was enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I am upholding  this complaint.
Looking at everything Ive been given, there is no doubt that there  has been an error on 
TSBs part. An issue with its IT systems has meant  Miss P was without a debit card for 
around three  weeks. 
It is also not in doubt that this issue was made worse than it needed to be by inadequate 
customer service  on TSBs part. As our adjudicator pointed  out  when Miss P contacted  
TSB to report her card hadnt arrived, TSB shouldve checked her details to make sure the 
second replacement  card was going  to the correct  address. Had it done this, its likely that 
Miss P wouldve received  her card in early September. 
Miss P has expressed her concerns about  the fact two cards have been delivered  to another 
address with her personal details on. I completely understand why shes  worried about this. 
But having  reviewed everything, no PINs  were  sent to the wrong address. And there doesnt 
seem to have been any attempt  to use the cards  or any unauthorised transactions. So Im 
satisfied Miss Ps personal details havent  been  used fraudulently.
So I agree with the adjudicators findings  that TSB should award more  than £28. And I agree 
that £150 is fair compensation for the trouble and upset that Miss P has been caused.  
The only slight difference is that I dont  agree that the £28 already awarded to Miss P should 
be deducted from the £150.  
I say this because  £28 was paid in relation  to the first replacement card not arriving. I think 
£150 is a fair amount in recognition of the additional inconvenience Miss P was caused  
Ref: DRN94684412when the second card didnt arrive.  The failures by TSB when Miss P contacted it about this 
meant that she had to wait a further  two weeks to receive her debit card.  
Therefore I direct  TSB to pay Miss P a further  £150.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and I direct TSB Bank  plc to award Miss P a further  £150  for the 
trouble and upset  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9468441