K820x#14The complaint
Mr A complains that Phoenix  Life Limited mis-sold him a term assurance policy. 
  
What happened
Mr A took out a loan with a bank  in 1999. As part of that process,  he was sold a 10 year term 
assurance policy. Mr A says he only became aware  of the policy  in 2018 and complained to 
Phoenix Life. He said Phoenix Life hadnt provided him with any policy documents, so it 
mustve mis-sold him the policy. Mr A was also concerned he continued paying for the policy  
until 2004, despite having repaid his loan in 2003.  
Phoenix Life considered  Mr As complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the policy  it sold Mr A 
was suitable for his needs, and hed signed  the application form agreeing to the policy  terms. 
And he wouldve  been sent the policy key features document and the terms and conditions, 
as well as the policy documents.  Phoenix Life said it could only cancel the policy  on 
notification from Mr As bank, which it received in 2004.  
Mr A didnt agree with Phoenix Lifes response and so he asked our service to consider his 
complaint. Mr A maintained he didnt know he had the term assurance policy  and didnt sign 
the application form, or receive a copy of it. He said he also didnt  receive the policy  
documents or the direct  debit mandate. Mr A said he hadnt been told about any changes to 
the administration of the policy, and he didnt cancel it in 2004.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said hed not seen 
any evidence to suggest Mr A wouldnt have known  he was sold a term assurance policy. 
The investigator said Mr A was paying for the policy, and so shouldve  known the policy was 
in place. And he was satisfied Mr A had completed  and signed the application  form and 
wouldve been sent the necessary policy documentation, even if Mr A didnt receive them. 
Our investigator was also satisfied there  was evidence to show  Mr A stopped paying the 
premiums in 2004, which resulted in the policy being  cancelled  after the loan was paid off.  
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator, so his case has been passed to me to review. Hed 
since been told again by Phoenix Life he wouldve been  issued  with the policy  documents in 
1999. But Mr A said this wasnt the case  and proved the policy  had been  mis-sold. And if 
Phoenix Life was unable to provide a copy of the policy  documents now, despite  it being 
able to provide  a copy of the application form, Mr A said this showed the policy  documents  
werent sent to him at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr A, but Id like to take some time to explain how 
Ive reached my decision. Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate  my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific  point, its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it, but because I dont think  I need to comment 
on it to reach  what I think is the right outcome. 
Ref: DRN97446302Firstly, I cant see any evidence or arguments to suggest this policy wasnt  suitable to meet  
Mr As needs back in 1999. The policy provided  specific cover for the loan Mr A had taken 
out, so it would be repaid in the event of Mr As death. This doesnt seem  unusual to me. But 
the suitability of the policy isnt Mr As main point  of complaint. Hes concerned he didnt 
know about the policy, didnt get any documentation  about it, and continued  to pay for it a 
year after hed settled  his loan with the bank. 
Whats clear to me from the evidence Ive seen  is Mr A completed  and signed the term 
assurance application form, which included a detailed medical  questionnaire;  and the direct  
debit mandate  in March 1999.   So, this shows  Mr A was aware of the policy,  knew  what  the 
terms were,  and how much it would cost. Mr A also knew the policy  would be assigned  to 
the bank  in other words, the bank became the owner of the policy  so it could  protect its 
interests. Taking all this into account,  I dont believe Phoenix mis-sold the policy  to Mr A, and 
so I wont be asking  it to take any action. 
Its unfortunate if Mr A didnt receive  the policy documentation back in 1999. I dont dispute 
what he says, and can understand the point he makes about some  information from 1999 
being available and some  not. Although given the passing of time I dont think this is 
completely unexpected. But just because theres  no record  of the documentation  now,  I cant 
say for sure it wasnt  sent to Mr A at the time. And given Im satisfied Mr A did know  about 
the policy, I cant see how him not receiving the policy documentation changes  that. In fact, 
as Mr A knew  he had the policy by completing the application form and direct  debit mandate, 
if he didnt receive the policy documents, then Id have expected him to have followed this up 
at the time.   
Mr A says he didnt cancel the policy as he didnt know he had it. The policy ran for 
10 years,  regardless of when the loan was repaid. The policy was cancelled because  the 
direct debit set up to pay the monthly  premiums was stopped. This wasnt  something  
Phoenix Life could  do without authority from Mr As bank. Furthermore,  it wouldnt  be in 
Phoenix Lifes interests to cancel  the policy, and Mr A keeping the policy  in place despite the 
loan being paid off wouldnt have caused  him any detriment either. The bank wouldve 
recovered its interest at the point the loan was repaid, but a claim couldve still been made 
under the policy  in the event of Mr As death any time before  the policy ended in 2009. I cant 
see that Phoenix Life did anything wrong  here,  or that Mr A has in anyway been 
disadvantaged. So, I wont  be asking Phoenix  Life to take any action.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9744630