K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) wouldnt  meet  a claim he made on his 
home insurance policy. 
background
Mr K is represented by Mr A.
Mr K called UKI in December 2017  to make  a claim on his home insurance. He was told he 
hadnt renewed the policy when it fell due in September 2017  so he wasnt insured. Mr K 
said he thought  the policy would auto-renew,  as it had in previous years.
UKI said that it had told Mr K in a phone call and a subsequent letter that he needed to call 
to renew his policy. As Mr K hadnt done  that it said it wouldnt meet  his claim.
Unhappy with that response Mr K brought his complaint  to us. 
Our investigator said he didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
made it clear  to Mr K that he needed to call  and as he didnt do that his policy hadnt been 
renewed.
Mr K doesnt  accept this so Ive been  asked  to decide this complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator  did, for much  the 
same reasons. I realise  this will disappoint Mr K, so Ill explain my reasoning.
Ive listened to the phone call Mr K had with UKI in September 2017.  He said he was 
prompted to call UKI because a letter  hed received  showed his old address,  which  he 
thought hed changed about six months  earlier.
The member  of staff from UKI looked for a policy for the new address but couldnt  find one. 
She asked  Mr K for his bank details  and said they werent receiving  any payments from that 
bank account.  Mr K suggested  they simply set up the policy for the new address.
He then answered a series of questions about the new address,  which  is what  Id expect if 
UKI was assessing whether it was able to insure Mr Ks new home.  Mr K also asked  to add a 
bracelet worth about £5,000 to the policy, and that was arranged too.
The member  of staff told Mr K the policy would cost an extra £5 or so until renewal and that 
shed send out the relevant paperwork.  She also said Mr K would need to call in if he wanted 
to renew the policy, as hed made  some  changes,  and Mr K acknowledged that.
UKI sent an updated  insurance schedule (which  reflected his new address and the added 
bracelet) for the period 13 September to 29 September 2017.  And it sent a schedule  for the 
following year (30 September 2017  to 29 September 2018) and a renewal letter to Mr K, too.
Ref: DRN98749642That letter says (in summary)   in bold type  that Mr K should call UKI if he wanted to 
renew the policy.
Im satisfied UKI did enough to let Mr K know he should call to renew  his policy.  So I dont 
think its done anything  wrong.
Im also aware that Mr Ks call to change his address was just before the renewal  date, and 
he had to make a one off payment to keep cover up to the renewal date. There wasnt a long 
passage of time between  the call, the payment,  the letter and the renewal date, which  might  
have explained  why Mr K forgot the content  of the call and letter  and didnt contact UKI.
Mr A points out that hes been sent a copy of a letter dated November 2018 which suggests 
Mr K was insured during  the year in question. I think thats a copy  of the September  2017 
letter, and the date has simply updated  automatically when  UKI reopened it. Thats  quite 
common. And I dont think the letter says Mr K was insured after September  2017, which  is 
the relevant period.
Mr A has commented on other  phone  calls Mr K might have had with UKI. I havent listened 
to these, but from what hes said I dont think they have  any bearing on this complaint. Thats 
because  whether  or not Mr K told UKI the policy was too expensive, which seems to be a 
point of disagreement  doesnt  affect  the fact that he didnt ask UKI to renew  it.
Finally Mr A asked why we hadnt talked to Mr K to get his version  of what happened.  Mr K 
has been free to contact us throughout this complaint,  but hes chosen to use Mr A to 
represent his views. Im satisfied that the evidence Ive seen enables me to reach a fair 
decision. 
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9874964