K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Santander UK plc wont  reimburse her losses  after she fell victim to a 
scam perpetrated by her ex-partner.  
background
Ms H has explained  the background in some detail, so I only need  to provide a summary  of 
what shes said about her ex-partners  activities. I can assure her though that Ive read very 
carefully all shes had to say and have no reason to disbelieve what shes  told this service 
about the relationship. 
Ms H has explained  that she met her now former partner in early 2015 on a dating  website.  
He claimed to be a successful businessman,  and Ms H allowed him to make financial  
decisions for them. They decided to buy an overseas property together,  and Ms H agreed to 
sell her property and to provide additional  funding for it. 
After some time, Ms Hs partner said that his business was experiencing temporary financial 
difficulties and she agreed to support him  in the expectation that she would be repaid. 
Shortly before her house was to be sold, Ms H concluded  that she had fallen victim  to a 
scam and that her partner would not pay her back.
Ms H has explained  that her ex-partner  targeted  a number of her accounts, not just her 
accounts with Santander. This decision however deals  only with the activity  on her 
Santander accounts, although money  was moved  from other  accounts  to her Santander 
account. 
Ms H had a mortgage  with Santander,  with a savings pot attached  to it; she also had a 
current account and a credit card account, on which her ex-partner was an authorised user.  
Ms H disputes three transfers from her mortgage savings pot to her current  account, and a 
large number of payments from her current account. She also says she wasnt told that she 
alone would  be liable  for any credit  card debt, as she was told she was taking out a joint 
credit card. 
Ms H referred her complaint to this service when Santander wouldnt agree to refund 
payments from her accounts.  One of our adjudicators considered  the case but didnt 
recommend that Santander make any refunds. Ms H didnt accept her view and asked that 
an ombudsman review  things. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator did, and for similar reasons. 
mortgage savings  pot 
Ms H disputes three payments from her mortgage  savings pot, totalling just under £18,000. 
They were  all made to her current account. Ms H acknowledges making them,  but says they 
were made under  duress and because of the lies her ex-partner told her. 
Ref: DRN96759952Because Ms H made the transfers herself, my starting point is that the bank should not 
refund them.  But I need to consider whether theres  a reason to reach a different conclusion. 
I accept that Ms H was misled by her ex-partner and that, but for that, she wouldnt have 
acted as she did. I dont  accept however that she acted under duress, which generally 
involves threats. She didnt make  the transfers because  of threats, but because of promises.
I note that the transfers were made to her current account, so there was  at least at that 
stage  no loss to her. But in any event I dont  agree  that Santander should agree to reverse  
the transfers because Ms H found out many months  later that shed been misled. Santander 
was entitled  and perhaps even bound  to act on her instructions and make  the transfers. 
current account   
Ms H disputes a large number of payments made from her current  account, totalling  around 
£44,000. She says she never provided  online banking details to her ex-partner and that he 
made them without  her authority. Its clear from what shes told us about their relationship 
that he had some degree of control over their finances. Its possible therefore that he did 
have access to her accounts  and that he made transfers without her authority. Its also 
possible that she gave  him rather more control than she recalls.  
I think however the most likely explanation  is that Ms H was again misled into making the 
payments herself  or allowing her ex-partner to make  them; that would be consistent with 
what shes said about the activity on the mortgage  savings pot. But, as the adjudicator  
noted, Ms H was making regular use of her account  and would have seen the activity on it. 
She didnt  however say anything to Santander.  And, given what  shes said about the 
transfers from the mortgage  savings pot, she must have known that money  would be 
transferred from that pot to her current account and then to her ex-partners  account. 
I think it more  likely than not that Ms H knew about the activity on her current account  and 
agreed to it at the time.  It was only later that she realised shed been misled.  That doesnt 
however mean that Santander  should  reverse the disputed payments and transfers. 
credit card 
Im prepared to accept that Ms H thought she was taking out a credit card jointly with her ex-
partner. I also think its likely that Santander  referred  to it as a joint  card in conversation; its 
a fairly  common description  of what is, in reality, a credit  card with an authorised  user. But, 
as the adjudicator identified, the credit  agreement that Ms H signed made it clear that she 
alone was responsible for any debt on the credit card account  notwithstanding  any 
arrangements she may have made  with her ex-partner. 
However, even if Ms H and her ex-partner had been jointly  liable for the credit  card debt (as 
she believed  to be the case), her own position would have been no different. Santander 
would still have been able to look to her to repay all the debt. Given what shes said about  
the trust she placed  in her ex-partner at the time,  I believe  Ms H would  still have taken out 
the credit  card and used  it in much the same way. 
For these reasons, I dont  believe it would be fair to require Santander to make any refunds 
as Ms H has asked it to. She does of course  have my sympathy for what  shes been 
through, but Im afraid the responsibility  for that lies with her ex-partner,  not with Santander.     
Ref: DRN96759953my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK plc to do anything  further to resolve  
Ms Hs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9675995