K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Openwork Limited failed to make it clear  to them the 
importance of providing accurate height and weight information in their application forms for 
term assurance policies.
 
Background
In 2013 Mr and Mrs W took out individual term assurance policies  with an insurer Ill call L 
Mrs Ws policy included  critical illness cover.  The policies were sold by a representative of 
Openwork.
In 2018 Mrs W was sadly diagnosed with cancer, and she made a claim for the critical illness 
benefit. L turned this down and cancelled Mrs Ws policy, saying that shed misrepresented  
her height  and weight in her application form. This was the subject of a separate  complaint 
with our service. As Mr W had taken  his policy out at the same time, and had provided the 
answers for him and Mrs W to Openwork, this prompted him to review the answers he gave 
in his own application.
Mr W asked for information from his GP about  his height and weight around the time of the 
application in December 2012.  As this differed to the answers he gave in his application 
form, he told L about this.
L looked at whether the new information  wouldve made a difference to its decision to offer 
Mr W cover  in 2013. After reviewing its underwriting criteria at the time, it cancelled  Mr Ws 
policy and returned  the premiums hed paid. This was because  it said it wouldnt have 
offered him any cover at all. Mr W has also complained about this to L.
In light of the above, Mr and Mrs W complained to Openwork. Mr W said hed let the sales 
representative know the answers hed given about their height and weight were  approximate 
and he had been led to believe an approximation was acceptable. Mr W said it hadnt been 
made clear to him the importance of these details  being exactly  right.
Openwork didnt agree Mr and Mrs W had been misled about  the importance  of providing 
accurate information.  It had a recording of a call that took place between Mr W and the sales  
representative at the time.  It acknowledged  Mr W had said the measurements were 
approximate but the sales representative had said they could check  this later. Hed also 
reminded Mr W about the consequences of not disclosing things. In addition, Openwork said 
Mr and Mrs W had been warned about  this again by L before their policies went  on risk. So, 
they thought Mr and Mrs W wouldve known the importance of providing  accurate information.
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to our service but the investigator  didnt  uphold  it for 
largely the same reasons  as those given by Openwork.
Mr and Mrs W asked  for a final decision. Mr W reiterated that he didnt know the answers 
they gave about their height and weight had to be exact. He said hed given  his best 
estimate and he wasnt lying about  this. Mr W added that Mrs Ws weight was fluctuating  a 
lot at the time so it wasnt necessarily the case that hed given the wrong answer.
Ref: DRN95404092My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed with this as this has had a significant impact  on 
each of their policies. But I dont think I can say they were misled.
Mr W says the first call he had with the sales representative is important, because this is 
where he was told an approximate answer for height and weight would be okay. Openwork 
has told us this call wasnt recorded.  But weve  been given a recording of a call Mr W had 
with a representative Ill call Mr A. In this call, Mr A confirmed the answers Mr W had given 
in the previous call.
Its unfortunate the first call wasnt recorded.  In the absence of this evidence, I have to make  
a decision on what I think most likely  happened. Mr A says in this call he was told it was fine 
to give an approximate answer. On the face of it that sounds  plausible, particularly as weight 
can fluctuate. But even  if Mr A was encouraged to give an estimate, I dont  think  thats 
necessarily unreasonable on Openworks part. The representative wouldnt have expected  
the approximation to be markedly different from the actual  measurements,  particularly with 
regard to height. And I still think Mr W wouldve been told at that point he could correct  it 
later if it wasnt right.  
Ive listened to the call that took place between Mr W and Mr A. There was a discussion 
about Mrs Ws weight and Mr W made it clear the measurements he gave were 
approximate. Mr A said that Mrs W could always check  this over as there  were  plenty of 
chances to do that. He said he brought  this up because anything not disclosed could mean a 
claim wasnt paid out.
I appreciate that Mr A couldve been  more explicit during  the call about  the importance  of 
those details being accurate. But I also think he wouldnt have expected the approximate  
answers to be that different to the actual measurements, particularly as during the call Mr W 
spoke about an instance where  he underwent  height and weight measurements for another 
application. Nevertheless, I still think he did enough  to emphasise that he and Mrs W should  
check over the answers that had been given. He also referred to the consequences of 
non-disclosure.
In addition to this, L sent Mr and Mrs W copies of their application forms on 
16 January 2013.  It asked  them  to check the answers and return  the checking your details 
form. The form contained the following warning:
If your answers or any other statements made about your application are not correct, 
incomplete, or are out of date we can refuse  any claim and cancel your policy  or policies.
So, even if Mr and Mrs W believed an approximate answer was fine after speaking to 
Openwork, they ought to have known  on receipt  of the checking your details form from L that 
all of their answers needed  to be accurate.  This was particularly important for Mrs W, given 
Mr W had answered  the questions on her behalf.  Mr and Mrs W each signed  the form, 
confirming the answers  were correct on 25 January 2013. So, Im satisfied they had an 
opportunity to review  their answers  and that they were warned of the consequences  of 
providing inaccurate information.
Ref: DRN95404093Overall, I dont  think Mr W knowingly gave the wrong information  in the application form, 
I accept he gave what he believed was an accurate estimate to the sales  representative. But 
overall I think Mr and Mrs W shouldve understood the importance of providing accurate and 
complete information  in their application forms. So, if they were in any doubt  as to their 
actual height and weight measurements they ought to have  taken further steps to ensure the 
answers they gave  were  accurate.  So, I dont  think the issues  theyve experienced with their 
policies with L are a result  of being  misled  by Openwork during the sales  process.
I havent addressed  Mr Ws comment that he doesnt necessarily believe he gave  an 
inaccurate answer for Mrs Ws weight. This is because it has been  considered  as part of 
Mrs Ws complaint  against L.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9540409