K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Close  Brothers  Limited did not uphold his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of an insurance policy.
background
In April 2017 Mr G took out an insurance  policy with a third party. The premium  was financed 
by Close  Brothers. He complains that he was not provided with all of the policy documents.  
In August  2017  he made a claim, and was dissatisfied with how it was handled. He asked 
Close Brothers for compensation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Close 
Brothers denied it was responsible, so Mr G brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Close Brothers had paid the 
premium to the insurance broker, not to the insurer. This meant  that under section 75 
Close Brothers was not liable  for anything done by the insurer. Close  Brothers would only be 
liable for the brokers  actions, but since Mr G had also brought  another  complaint to our 
Service about the broker, the investigator didnt think it would be fair to uphold  a complaint 
against Close Brothers for what the broker had done. Mr G did not agree,  and so this 
complaint has been referred to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or against  the provider of credit  if theres  been  a breach of 
contract by the supplier. The term supplier is defined  in sections 11 and 12 of the Act. Put 
simply, it means the person the creditor paid. Here,  Close Brothers  is the provider of credit, 
and it paid the broker, not the insurer. That means  the broker   not the insurer   is the 
supplier. So Close Brothers is not liable for what the insurer  did (or didnt do).
Close Brothers was liable under section 75 for any breach of contract by the broker, so if 
there was such a breach then Mr G had a valid claim  against  Close  Brothers. However,  
although section  75 makes the creditor  and the supplier jointly and severally  liable, I still 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to hold Close  Brothers liable for something 
the broker did while Mr G has a complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service  against 
the broker for the very same alleged breach. If the broker did breach its contract with Mr G, 
then it is fair to let the broker pay for it.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
Services consideration of this complaint,  which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Ref: DRN98830882Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9883088