K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs W say Coventry Building  Society (CBS) mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
In 1996 Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage  and at the same time PPI was taken out. They  
paid a monthly amount for the policy. If either of them had made a successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment they would have received 50% of the monthly 
repayment for up to nine months initially, which changed to 12 months in 1999.
In 2002 Mr and Mrs W took out a further advance  and the original PPI policy  was cancelled 
and a new one set up to enable them to take advantage of three months free cover. The 
benefit level was increased to include this additional borrowing. As before, Mr and Mrs W 
were both insured  for 50% of the monthly benefit.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed and so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W have  said they werent  told the cover  was optional but I think CBS made it 
clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have  to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out. I 
say this because  Ive been given  a copy of the mortgage application form completed in 
1996 and this includes a section about PPI. In this section there  are options to tick to accept 
or decline the cover and I can see that the option confirming Mr and Mrs W wish to apply for 
the cover  has been ticked. The mortgage  application form has been signed by both of them  
which suggests they agreed with everything  that had been entered on the form. If 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  want to take out the PPI they could have ticked  the box declining  
cover. 
Ive also been  given a copy of the additional lending application from 2002 which was when 
Mr and Mrs W requested  additional funds as a further advance  to their mortgage. As with 
the original application in 1996, this included a section about PPI and a box has been ticked 
to confirm that Mr and Mrs W already  held the cover and wished to take advantage of the 
offer of three  months free cover. The form also included options to refuse  to take out the 
cover. Mr and Mrs W have signed  this section  of the form to confirm  their selection and 
signed the overall form. 
Mr and Mrs W have  said they were  led to believe the cover was mandatory and they felt 
pressured into taking  this out. These policies were  both taken  out during meetings in a 
branch and so we dont have a record of what  was discussed. Ive thought about this very 
carefully but, when  looking  at the documentation provided, I havent seen anything  to 
Ref: DRN91513462indicate that the cover was compulsory or a requirement of the mortgage. And, if it was a 
mandatory product,  I wouldnt  expect  to see options  to decline the cover on the application 
forms.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think CBS made  it clear  that the policies 
were optional and that Mr and Mrs W agreed  to take out the cover,  knowing  they could 
refuse it if they didnt  want it  even if that is not their recollection now.
Mr and Mrs W have  said the policies were  recommended to them but CBS has told us it 
didnt give advice about the PPI. I havent seen any documentation which  shows that CBS 
completed a personal  review of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances which I would expect  to see 
if they were recommending a specific product, based on their needs. So I think it is more 
likely that CBS didnt  recommend  the PPI to them. This means it didnt have to check if the 
cover was right for them but it did need  to make sure Mr and Mrs W got the information they 
needed to decide for themselves if the PPI was right for them.  
As Ive said previously, the sales of the policies took place in meetings  in a branch so I cant  
say for certain what was discussed. So its possible that not all of the information CBS gave 
Mr and Mrs W about the PPI was as clear  as it should have been. But they chose to take out 
the PPI by ticking the relevant boxes on the forms - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time of each sale it doesnt 
look like they were  affected by the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   such  as 
having unusual  working arrangements or suffering  from a medical  condition  of which they 
were already  aware  so it seems  the policies would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. So I dont  think better  information about  the PPI would have put them off taking 
out the cover. 
Which means CBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But CBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  CBS didnt  tell 
Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, CBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said - including  what  they have said about 
not needing the cover as they had sick pay they could use and family members  who would 
help them to make  their repayments.  But the PPI policies would have paid out in addition to 
any sick pay they may have received, and potentially for longer. And whilst I appreciate that 
their family would have  wanted to help, such support cant  always  be guaranteed as their 
circumstances can also change, meaning they cant provide such financial assistance. So 
these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
CBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. CBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs W any extra interest  
they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN91513463CBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs W the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. CBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs W 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9151346