K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) hasnt compensated them  for all 
of the money  they paid for their joint Total Mortgage  Protection Plans  (TMPP.)
background
In 2003 Mr W and Mrs P took out a TMPP to protect  their new mortgage  during a branch 
meeting. It was a joint policy providing accident,  sickness and unemployment cover (PPI) for 
Mr W only and life and critical illness cover for them both. The life and critical illness element 
cost around £45 a month.
In 2008 when Mr W and Mrs P made some changes to their mortgage, the original  policy 
was cancelled and they replaced  it with a new one. I understand this too was all carried  out 
during a meeting. The benefits  levels were  increased, but it broadly offered cover  for the 
same things. The life and critical illness element cost a little under £80 a month.
Mr W and Mrs P subsequently complained about their policies saying they were mis-sold. In 
response, BoS upheld the complaint and it offered to compensate  them for the PPI elements 
of the policy  only.
Mr W and Mrs P then subsequently complained theyd not received all of their money back  
and they made it clear  their complaint about  the mis-selling  included the life and critical 
illness cover  elements too. BoS responded to this new complaint saying that, in its view 
these elements of cover  were suitable  for Mr W and Mrs P at the times  of sale, so it rejected 
the complaint.
After bringing their complaint to this Service  the adjudicator upheld the complaint about the 
first policy because she said that BoS recommendation for level term life cover alongside a 
repayment mortgage wasnt suitable  because  the cover didnt reduce with the reducing 
balance of the mortgage. This meant they were  paying for extra cover they didnt need. She 
asked BoS to refund Mr W and Mrs P the difference in cost between what  they should have 
taken out  a decreasing term policy  and their recommended level term policy,  including  
appropriate interest.
The adjudicator went on to say that, in her view the second policy wasnt  unsuitable  because  
BoS had appropriately recommended a decreasing term life policy as part of the overall 
protection recommended. So she didnt uphold this part of the complaint.
BoS agreed with the adjudicators findings. But its calculation of the cost of a decreasing 
term life policy for Mr W and Mrs P showed  that this would in fact have been more  expensive 
at the time. As such it said Mr W and Mrs P havent  lost out financially as a result,  so no 
compensation is due.
Mr W and Mrs P disagree. In summary  they maintain that their overall  protection policies 
were mis-sold saying that it was sold as a full package  and they want  compensation for all of 
it.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019.  In summary I made the following 
provisional findings:
Ref: DRN94136842I explained that in 2003 I didnt think it was wrong of BoS to recommend Mr W and Mrs P 
take out life and critical illness  protection in connection with their mortgage because in 
light of their circumstances at the time,  I thought it was suitable  for them.  I also said that 
given what we know of BoS  sales process  at the time I thought  it was unlikely the 
advisor told Mr W or Mrs P they had to have the cover  I thought  they likely chose and 
agreed to take it out.
But I found Mr W and Mrs P should have been sold a decreasing term assurance life 
policy rather than the level term policy they were sold because  they were  taking out a 
repayment mortgage where the balance  and therefore the amount of cover needed - 
reduces over time.
Despite this, BoS calculations showed  that a decreasing term policy would in fact have 
been more expensive than the policy Mr W and Mrs P bought. With no reason to doubt 
what BoS said, I didnt  think  Mr W and Mrs P had therefore lost out because  they paid 
less than they would otherwise have done had they taken out the more suitable  policy.
In relation to the later 2008 life and critical illness policy  sale  I said because Mr W and 
Mrs Ps overall circumstances hadnt  fundamentally changed  since  2003, I didnt think  it 
was wrong of BoS to recommend they take out cover to protect  their mortgage. And 
unlike the recommendation in 2003,  BoS recommended  a decreasing term life policy  as 
part of the cover,  so I concluded  theyd  not lost out. 
BoS said it accepted my decision  and had nothing more to add.
Mr W and Mrs P havent replied to my provisional  decision  although  they confirmed safe 
receipt.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that Mr W and Mrs P havent  replied to my provisional  decision. But I know it was 
received - they were also reminded of the deadline  for responses, which has now passed. I 
think if theyd wanted to respond, they wouldve  done so by now. So I think its safe for me to 
go ahead  and issue my final decision.
Because Ive not been given anything new to consider by either party, Ive no reason to 
change my reasoning  or conclusions as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, my final decision  is that 
Mr W and Mrs P have  not suffered loss or damage  as a result of taking out life and critical 
illness policies with Bank of Scotland plc in 2003  and 2008  alongside their mortgage, so I 
make no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Ref: DRN94136843Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9413684