K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Sytner  Group Ltd (Sytner) misrepresented a finance agreement to 
her.
background
Miss S has been represented by a friend throughout this process but for ease I will refer to 
Miss S throughout this decision.
Miss S signed a hire purchase agreement in September 2015  to fund the lease of a used 
vehicle. She complained to Sytner  that the wrong  model was recorded on the finance 
agreement. She said this meant the final payment was higher than it should have been as 
that model had a higher  residual value. She said that if shed known that at the time she 
would not have proceeded with the deal and would not have chosen to include the paint 
protection policy and GAP  insurance  in the finance arrangement.
She also complained  that:
the wrong APR was recorded and shed agreed  a much lower  rate;
the model number  had subsequently  been  changed on the finance agreement 
without her agreement.
Sytner agreed that theyd recorded the wrong  model but believed this was a genuine error. 
They explained that both vehicle models  would have had the same monthly repayments and 
the same  residual values  so Miss S hadnt  been  financially disadvantaged.  They said the 
finance company  had changed the agreement  to record the correct model when the mistake  
was identified and they explained that they were able to do this as there  was no change  to 
the financial details  in the agreement.
They went  on to consider the APR that had been listed.  They  noted that Miss S had been 
sent the finance documents beforehand and they noted that the APR she was being charged  
had been clearly listed. They didnt think there was any evidence that a different figure had 
been quoted and they noted that Miss S had signed  the forms showing her agreement with 
this APR and with the costs for the GAP insurance  and the paint protection  policy. So 
overall, they didnt  think theyd  done anything wrong.
But Miss S disagreed  and she therefore referred  her complaint to this service where our 
adjudicator provided  his opinion. He could not find any further  evidence  that Miss S was 
informed the APR would be any different and he noted she signed to agree to the rate 
detailed on the agreement and to the GAP and paint  protection  premiums. So he didnt think 
there was sufficient evidence to suggest Sytner  had made a mistake in these areas.
He went on to consider  if there had been  any impact on Miss S by the company recording 
the wrong model number. He thought there  had been an administrative error  here as he 
noted the registration plate of the (wrong) car that had been  recorded on the finance 
agreement was very similar to the registration number of the car Miss S was financing. He 
looked at the invoice  that had been provided  and he noted this was for the right car  the 
one Miss S received. He said the balance of that invoice which should have been financed 
was £14,464.13 but he noted the actual finance  agreement had financed a little less, at 
£14,350. So he thought Miss S had actually  had to pay £114.63 less than she should have 
and he didnt think there was evidence shed  been  financially disadvantaged.
Ref: DRN93934212He looked at the various comparison quotes that had been  provided by Sytner and Miss S 
and he noted  they didnt  agree. He thought  it impossible to back  date the quotes but he 
didnt think there was sufficient evidence to suggest  Miss S had struggled  to change her car 
because of a difference  in models  of car that had been quoted. He thought it was more likely  
to be because of the type of finance  agreement and that as shed tried to change her car 
after only ten months, the relatively low repayments  would have made the cost of the change 
prohibitive.
So the adjudicator didnt  think  it would  be fair to ask Sytner to take any further action. But 
Miss S disagreed. She provided a detailed response  in which, amongst  other points, she 
said it was against  the law to change a finance  agreement. She said her signature had been 
forged on the finance document and she disputed Sytners  suggestion shed been notified  of 
the change. She noted that the finance companys internal records  suggested theyd  
accepted there was a difference in value and she also stressed  that it would be virtually 
impossible for two vehicles to have the same  residual  value. She therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres evidence here that Miss S would not have  proceeded with this deal if she 
was aware the finance agreement had been  constructed using the wrong  model. I dont think  
theres sufficient evidence that shes  been  disadvantaged by the administrative error  and I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence the APR wasnt what  was agreed and the GAP and 
paint protection  policy was mis-sold.  
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file. Miss S has provided very detailed  responses 
throughout and I wont refer to all of her points. Ill concentrate  my comments  on what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the 
agreement should  not have been  misrepresented. If it was and if I thought Miss S would not 
have proceeded  had she been given the correct information, Id ask Sytner  to put this right.
what was the impact of the wrong model  being listed?
Im not persuaded that this has made  any tangible difference. The balance on the invoice is 
a little more than the finance payable on the car Miss S took receipt  of. So its clear  Miss S 
has benefitted from this. 
Theres a dispute  about the residual values that would  apply  and I can understand Miss Ss 
point that residual values on different models  are unlikely to be the same.  It seems the 
finance company  have  accepted that there  may have been  a difference in the residual  
values but theyve agreed not to change them  and to hold the higher residual value. So 
Miss S is also benefitting from this.
Ref: DRN93934213I think the reason  Miss S was unable to change her vehicle so soon was much more likely  to 
be because of the type of finance  agreement shed  entered into. The relatively low monthly 
repayments meant that the sum still owed was prohibitive.
And even  if the figures were misrepresented I dont think theres evidence here that Miss S 
would not have proceeded with the agreement if shed known. It seems the deal she ended  
up with was, if anything, a little cheaper than she could have expected.
was the APR, GAP  and paint protection policy misrepresented?
Miss S was given a chance to review  the documentation prior to signing the agreement. The 
APR is clearly stated and whilst Miss S insists she was promised a lower  rate; Sytner 
disagree. In the absence  of any other  evidence  I dont  think  theres enough to suggest the 
APR, GAP or paint  protection premiums were mis-sold. They were as advertised.
were the finance  company right to change the finance  agreement
Any complaint about the way the document was changed would more  properly be made to 
the finance company as Sytner are only responsible for antecedent negotiations  those 
conducted before the agreement was taken out. 
Overall, I dont  think Sytner need  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9393421